ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1333	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, today you have four laws and one decision that is very important and that concerns the payment of a one-time aid of 5,000 dinars by the end of this year, and before I come to this financial plan and a decision relating to the PIO Fund, at the beginning of a few words about the four laws that are before you today. Before you today, honourable MPs, the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. This is the first year after 18 years that parallelly as we consider the budget for next year, you also have a final account for the previous year. This is due to the adoption of 18 final accounts last year, for the previous 18 years, which was a great success of the Serbian Parliament and a very important thing for Serbian citizens, to see that it is known who works transparently, who works publicly and to justify every spent dinar in the previous years. The final account for the previous year was made in accordance with the Law. What I'd like to take advantage of, just to read you a few digits from that final account. Just so we all remember together, as well as the citizens of Serbia, what our results were during last year. The total revenues and receipts of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget are 1,328 billion. Total expenditure and expenditure 1.296 billion. Budget surplus, ladies and gentlemen, 32 billion 178 million dinars. When you subtract the expenditure on the payment of the capital of 10.8 billion and the purchase of the financial assets of 7.9 billion, you come to a fiscal surplus for 2019, amounting to 13.4 billion dinars. Yesterday we talked about the fact that in the last four years, our budget surplus was, that the result, I apologize, was positive. So we had a surplus in the budget. Here's the final account for 2019 just confirms that, with the participation of public debt in GDP on 31 December 2019 at 52%, the total public debt is 23.9 billion euros. So, ladies and gentlemen, the responsible economic policy, the difficult reforms launched by President Vukic, while he was still Prime Minister, led to four years in a row of surpluses in the budget. Here, the final account that is today in front of you and the citizens of Serbia, the final account for 2019, that's exactly what the figures are, these are exactly the growth rates that we want to see again in our country as soon as possible. Unfortunately, we were distracted by the coronary pandemic of the virus, but already the 2021 budget, and we talked about it yesterday, gives us hope that with never more investment, with an increase in wages and pensions, and with 6% of the growth rate, which was designed to return to these results that we had until last year. When someone asks me, they say it's a bad deficit, and it's a bad surplus. Let me tell you, better a surplus than a deficit, anyway. Given the surplus over the past four years, we have had enough space and money to come up with over 700m dinars, over six billion euros in helping our economy and citizens of Serbia during the biggest economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary this year. It is before you, honourable MPs, and also the Law on the Budgetary System. Two of the most important changes, except for a couple of technical ones that are also in it. The first is to define the percentage of salary increases in the public sector. So, it's a very important law. In this law of 1 January, you have a decision to increase wages by 5%, for all medical workers, and by 3.5% for everyone else in the public sector, and since 1 April, the rest will have a 5% increase. So, a very important law, a very important decision, goes together with the 2021 budget, which we discussed yesterday, and I ask you to support this decision. Also, one very important thing lies in this law. You heard and discussed it, two or three years ago, about public sector employment control, this law is leaving this control system. So he leaves work or the principle that we had that every new employee must be approved by the Commission for the Employment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A slightly more flexible system is introduced, therefore, on the users of public funds, on institutions, institutions, businesses, it is up to them to hire, if they consider that they should hire, according to their needs and of course, in accordance with the money they have. But there is one restriction, which is that they cannot employ more than 70% of the number of employees who are no longer in the company during the previous year. So, to be clear, if 10 employees in one institution have left that facility over the past year, the maximum number of newly employed employees, without prior consent from the government is seven. So up to 70%. This is a principle that gives much more flexibility to institutions, businesses, so the days depend so much on the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia, but also, puts them much responsibility, they are responsible for employment, they are responsible for the control and height of the payment fund, they are responsible for whether they need these personnel or not. What is very important, and it is imperative, which is that the quality of their services must grow year after year, because it is the quality that Serbian citizens count on. The third law in front of you is amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act. The most important thing is planning, so what we want to do is make the law and procedure a little more flexible so that we can reduce the cost of borrowing, so that we can plan better and manage our public debt. For your information, the projection of the central level of public debt of the Republic of Serbia for this year is 57.9%. So we're far below that 60 percent masturbation level despite the Coronal Virus pandemic and despite the programme that the Government of the Republic of Serbia implemented to help our economy amount to over 700 billion dinars. When I spoke about the final account for 2019 earlier, I mentioned that on 31 December last year the total participation of public debt in GDP was 52%. So it grew in 2020, but it's still completely under control, precisely thanks to the space we've had and which we've earned over the past few years when we've had surpluses in the budget and we've been returning old and expensive loans. What's very important is that I've talked about it in public already, just to remind you one more time. We will complete the process of finding a strategic partner for the Commercial Bank by the end of the year. We expect an inflow of up to 400m euros, an inflow into the budget, to just see how conservatively we plan and work, we haven't counted on it at all. You have no budget projections of 2021, because we wanted to be conservative, realistic, and not to plan something that might not happen. It's going to happen and it's very important. The reason I'm talking about this is because we're going to use almost half that money, 170m euros to repay old, expensive loans, in this case the old credit we took from the state of Azerbaijan in 2012, not us, but those before us. At the interest rate, believe it or not, 4%. So we're going to use the incomes we get most of that money to pay back debts, old debts, expensive debts. This tells you how responsible we are to manage our public debt and how responsible we are to our public finances. Let me remind you. Yesterday when we talked about the 2021 budget, we also talked about the projection of the public debt for the next year and the 3% deficit is exactly the one that gives us the opportunity to continue the next year to reduce the participation of public debt in GDP, where the projection by the end of the year is to come to a central new of 57.5% if we return this loan to Azerbaijan, and I'm sure we're going to pay it back, we're further reducing the participation of public debt in GDP by 0.4% by a decision that is very important. So we create a better and safer future for our children. We don't want to leave them with expensive loans that someone else owed us at high interest rates in some previous period. The fourth law that is before you today is to give a guarantee in favour of the Unicredited Bank for a Public Enterprise "Skivals of Serbia. It's building a gondola. What is important to me to mention here, this project is part of the 2025 project Serbia. In realising the project, the "Skistations of Serbia" has already gone, unless I am mistaken, they will open this very important gondola by the end of the year. So, it connects, finally, after, I don't know how many decades you've been talking about, so the foot of the Bather with the top of the Bather, thus giving you the opportunity to develop both faster and that part of the footer further. Of course, you are affecting development and tourism and everything else in that part of Serbia. It is not a small investment of 3.2 billion dinars, but it is the money we have provided for the development of tourism in that part of Serbia, and by the end of the year I expect to open the gondola. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, before you today is the proposal for a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the Fund for PIO. What is very important to me, if you agree and agree with these changes, is the prerequisites for being in front of St. Nikola for all of our oldest citizens, for all of our pensioners, to pay each of them one-time cash aid of 5,000 dinars. It's a huge success for us. So, at the end of the very difficult year, the year when the Republic of Serbia, when our state, has shown how strong it is, how much it can help anyone who needs help most, that at the end of the year the last set of measures we take is just helping our oldest citizens. I'll visit you in April, we've paid off as a kind of aid and support for 4,000 dinars, one-time assistance for Kovid 19, for the mitigation of the negative effects of the Coronus virus pandemic, here's a one-time aid of 5,000, dinars. There's no need to talk about it, if that means our oldest citizens, there's a million and 717 grand. So, at the addresses of a million and 717 thousand of our oldest citizens on December 18, there are 5,000 dinars. Since January 1st, we talked about it yesterday, according to the Swiss formula, followed by an increase in pensions by 5.9%. So, pensions are not only safe, pensions are not only stable, we talked yesterday about the stability of the PIO fund and about how we give less money from the PIO fund budget year by year because we have more employees, which is growing contributions, or growth of the PIO fund's income, and that's the responsible economic policy, that's what we're very proud of, and I expect your support for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1334	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1335	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow Members, we had one of the points of the agenda on the Finance Committee – Consideration of the Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, we only put it on the agenda when we have a report on the budget's final account and besides the one submitted by the DRI, and we also had a report on the revision of all financial social security organisations, which together make up one package, together with the budget, as part of the agenda. It was usually a practice to always have, say, a budget with accompanying laws at the Assembly sessions, but we have now introduced a practice to specifically consider the budget in that double time, and that all the other laws, as we speak today, go separately. What I just wanted to say is that based on the DRI report, in fact, it shows that Serbia respects international standards when it comes to auditing or accounting and financial management and that we are on track to simply comply with EU standards, or international institutions dealing with this topic. Why am I saying this? Because since 2002 in parliament until last year, we haven't had a single final account that's in accordance with Article 177. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly had to go with the budget, precisely to show how the previous years had been done. And it wasn't easy for us MPs and the Ministry of Finance to correct certain wrongs of Drina and one irresponsibleness of all those who ran and ran the state until 2012, when the SNS led Alexander Vukic took responsibility for leading the state. The first thing was to take care of the finances, so after that, when you take care of it, you consolidate, all costs, expenses, then you have to arrange that reporting to be in line with international standards. It was not easy for SNS lawmakers to raise their hands for the 2003 budget implementation report, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010. Why am I saying that? Because those now who honor us with irresponsible financial management, irresponsible politics, they led that state and didn't even know how money was spent. They had no idea what they were taking credit for. Now, only when you've taken care of it this way, and with the help of it, I must say, international financial institutions, is it then that you have arranged finances and you're not afraid to go out simply to the citizens of Serbia and say what you're spending your budget on. I thank the Ministry of Finance and the DRI and the MPs. All the problems we still have to solve, the technical type, where there are standards on reporting budget audits in the future, we will simply support, submit certain initiatives for amending and supplementing the law if something technical is to be done and I don't think we really need to worry about public finances in the future anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1336	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1337	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, in my address today, I must first commend the Ministry of Finance, because yesterday when we discussed the 2021 draft budget, the draft budget arrived in the Assembly in time, in the assembly procedure, MPs had enough time to get acquainted with such an important document, and the public had a budget for 2021. In that same spirit, I would also like to commend that we are discussing today the final budget for 2019 and it is very important that in two days we first talk about the budget for next year and then the final budget for the previous year, because the area of finance is one of the most important and most sensitive areas in our society. It is good that the public has insight into the movement of money and it is very important, and Serbian citizens have the right to know where every penny is spent and how money flows move, from the moment money is poured into the budget through tax, until the money is paid from the budget to the end-user. The minister mentioned earlier, and indeed, it is a great success, we have achieved success in recent years by having a surplus in the last four years' budget. This is the result of one responsible fiscal policy. But in order to achieve such good results, it took a difficult time, a difficult period, where they were applied perhaps at that moment unpopular measures for fiscal consolidation, but we achieved the goal – public finances are now on healthy feet and this is why we, as a society, welcome the crisis that suddenly caused the pandemic due to the Corona virus. At that moment, the state was behind the economy and by a package of comprehensive measures the economy could rely on that aid and people were protected from possible negative consequences. I'm not going to list what it was, but again, I'm going to point out that the state helped with a few minimum employee earnings, the Development Fund came up with a one-off 200m-euro loan, in April increased salaries, I'm going to say earned, to health workers, the increase was 10%, the one-time aid to pensioners was paid. It's important that the help is also directed to the caterers, to the hotelers, because this area is really affected by the crisis. These measures have achieved excellent effects, but I must point out that they came at the right time. You need to ask a question sometimes – what would happen if these measures were too late? Or what would have happened if there had been no such measure? Would you like to keep your jobs? Would all production plants remain intact? How long would it take the recovery process from the crisis caused by the crown in the first place? It is also commendable to the fact that it continues to relieve the economy when we talk about contributions to profits. This has one goal – to continue with the trend of reducing unemployment. The unemployment rate is single-digit at the moment, and for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia it is very important, because in this way we place workers in a better position than employers. Workers can negotiate more easily on new working conditions, have an alternative because labour market offers have increased. We particularly stress the importance of the agreement at the session of the Social-Economic Council to increase the minimum earnings in the following year by 6.6%. Of course, the state has heard there, and it has come to the economics that they can implement a programme like this and that there is a balance in the sense that economic activities continue at the same pace as they have so far without firing workers. The minister mentioned earlier that by adopting one of these laws on the agenda today, we will be able to pay one-time aid to the pensioners during this month. Pensioners also have reason to be satisfied, because in the following year, they will have a raise in the new formula. These are the funds paid from real sources, and this is the most important indicator of a healthy economy, or healthy finances. It is important to continue investing in infrastructure, roads, railways, therefore, in everything that Serbian citizens use daily. Although it is now in 2021, we can say both uncertain and unpredictable, economic movements in our country give us the right to be optimistic. Simple economic movements are such that we can have real estimates. However, we will see that it will be at the beginning of the coming months, that the situation will take place and, depending on that, we will see if there will be additional expenditure from the budget. The most important thing is to focus on the future, to remain as attractive for investment as we have been, because I will remind you that we are first in this part of Europe by the number of foreign direct investment, or more than half of foreign direct investment in the region ends up in our country. Continuity is about raising the standard of living of citizens and we see these results now. I support the decision that health care professionals are most rewarded and that the salary increase is the most in the health sector, because they deserve it by their pawnage and by their example in the previous period. And just when we talk about increasing wages in the public sector, this area is dealing with exactly the Budgetary System Act, and it specifically defines the percentages of public sector growth, and that is the most significant change in this law. In addition to these increases that the minister said earlier, an increase has been foreseen for members of Serbia's military since April. It is an increase of about 10% and, as I understand it, it will not be seen through this law, but it will be seen by increasing the coefficient of members of the Serbian Army and it is very important, because it will further motivate them, to preserve the level of professional soldiers in the ranks of the military. The percentage of salary and pensions in total GDP is reduced, and this is an indicator of a responsible fiscal policy aimed at macroeconomic stabilisation. These amendments and additions to the law relax the measures relating to the ban on public sector employment. At the end of 2013, we decided that the government's agreement was needed for public sector employment for a certain period of time. These were the measures that were necessary at that time for fiscal consolidation and I believe that these measures met the purpose and that is why we can talk today about the gradual abolition of these measures. In this way we also send a message to young people that we will provide space so that they can get a better job in the public sector, to stay in Serbia, to send a message that the best ones should be rewarded, that the most valuable ones should get good jobs, to send a message that we are a society that seeks to create equal opportunities for all. Young people in Serbia want certainty and want security, and we are the ones who are the ones who need security and certainty to provide them with, so that they can plan their future in Serbia. This legislative solution gives the possibility to address some priority staff issues in the public sector and earlier it was suggested that perhaps these measures should be omitted especially in the part where the collectives are such, in the public sector, that by the number of years, conditionally speaking, old collectives and there was a need for rejuvenation, but also for other reasons for older colleagues to be able to transfer their skills and their skills to younger colleagues and to train them in the right way. Finally, I will also say something about the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia following the borrowing of Serbia's Ski resort for the construction of the Brzece Gondola - Mali Karaman. This is a very important investment for this part of Serbia and as far as Kopalnika tourism is concerned, tourism has developed on this mountain, but I would say more on the side that belongs to the territory of Raška municipality. In this way we will encourage the development of tourism on the part of the Kopalnik who is gravitating the municipality of Bruce. I was recently in Bruce and there was a change of government there after many years. Now the authorities are party representatives, a coalition that is compatible with the coalition at the republican level. I met with these people and the director of the Brusa Tourist Organisation and I saw an enthusiasm with them and a desire to approach their work responsibly and want to start this municipality. That's why I think this investment will mean a lot to them. It's important that we support them on that path. The value of the investment is not small – 3.2 billion dinars, but this investment can still be a good momentum for the further economic development of this part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1338	Thank you. According to the order of the president or authorised representatives, Elvira Kovac has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1339	Thank you. Dear President, the House of Representatives, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on behalf of the SVM, I will talk about several laws, and first of all about the final account itself and the amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, but I would like to start from the very theory, meaning, which is our task, because according to the theoretical classifications, it is defined that the competencies of the National Assembly are diverse - from the normative or the legislative jurisdiction through the control role, Parliament's right to control the government, to its competences relating to elections and to the right to organise, to arrange its own organisation. The bottom line is that without the control role, without the oversight role of the National Assembly and providing adequate instruments of control, monitoring the government's work, we can't really talk about the existence of a parliamentary form of state government. Regular examinations of the final account are a necessary prerequisite, of course, for adequate good planning of the Republic of Serbia's budget and one of the important supervisory roles of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote here several members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and one law. Namely, Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The National Assembly is considering the draft final budget account after obtaining the opinion of the DRI." Furthermore, Article 99 of point 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The National Assembly adopts the budget and the final account of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Government". Furthermore, the Budgetary Funding Act says: "The law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia is the act by which the National Assembly for each financial year determines the total revenue and income and expenditure and expenditure, the financial results of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the budget deficit or surplus and the financing account." Why did I quote all this? Why was I planning on leaving on behalf of the SVM, from the very bill of the final account? Because in the period, when we talk about the previous period, from 2000 to 2019, in 19 years, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has only twice, in 2000 and 2001, considered the final bill here and passed the laws. The legal obligation to adopt the final account was not respected in the National Assembly since 2002. With the final account actually coming into the assembly procedure from 2002 to 2014, and in this way it was available to the public, but it was simply not discussed here and we received many criticisms about this then. Then, last year, about, exactly one year ago, seventeen drafts of the final bill, so for these remaining years since 2002, until 2018, they were considered here finally in the tide, a united debate. It was the ninth session of the Second Regular Session last year, if we talk about the dates correctly, it was 16 December 2019. That's why we welcome, we're extremely happy that today on time, so on the agenda we have a final account for 2019. The procedure for the adoption of the final budget account was laid down in Article 177. The Rules of Procedure and provides that, as we have heard from the Honorable President, the Committee on Finance, the Republic's budget and the control of the spending of public funds, consider the draft accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the report, of course, the State Audit Institutions on the audit carried out of that final budget account, final accounts of financial plans, the organisation of compulsory social security and consolidated financial reports of the Republic, which is, of course, submitted to the National Assembly with views and recommendations of the parent board, in accordance with the law governing the State Audit Authority. For a quality and comprehensive debate on the final account, an important segment is, as we heard it, I think we need to stress several times, and the DRI report itself. We believe that this is the fact that all the necessary institutions that control the budgetary cycle have been formed to date in Serbia. The law provides for solutions to the greatest extent appropriate to a good international bang. The next steps that might be able to improve this process, means controlling public finances, should be directed towards, perhaps better co-ordination and maximum capacity utilisation of these existing institutions, the development of capacities for the selection of priorities and analysis of public policy effects. The expenditure, when we look at it, means a little bit to talk about this content of the final budget account, when we look at the expenditures and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, they were carried out in the amount of 93.70% of the planned ones so that this proves and shows that expenditures are actually well planned and are accordingly well and realised. Current incomes and incomes are higher by 22.98% compared to the previous 2018, which also shows a high percentage increase. If we look at expenditures, we realize that total expenditures and expenditures are higher by almost 15%, 14.88% compared to the previous year 2018. The rate of expenditure execution is lower by 8.1% compared to the increase in income. It is also important to look at the total public debt. In fact, the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia, meaning on the state level, amounted to 23.9 billion euros on 31 December of last 2019, i.e. when we talk about GDP, was 52% of GDP. During last 2019, there was a decrease in public debt to GDP at the central level of government, because when we look at the previous year it was 53.7, it was so important at the end of 2018, while at the end of 2019 it fell from 53.7 to 52%. As I pointed out at the very beginning, the second draft law on which I would like to state the position of the SVM parliamentary group is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. In fact, in my presentation, I would refer to two additions that are proposed, first of all, from the aspect of the implications that their application will bring into practice. In the first we heard from the respected previous speaker, so the first addition of the Budgetary System Act is the one that regulates the rules for new employment and additional employment by the users of public funds, which is essentially, if I can formulate, relax the measure that is in force in the last six years, we heard in this distinguished home yesterday, six years. I kind of figured that the measure was so-called. "no employment" has been in force for seven years in the Republic of Serbia, banning or restricting employment in the public sector. We all know that this measure was extremely difficult, unpopular, but we are aware that it is necessary within all other measures taken to ensure fiscal consolidation. The proposed supplement that we are talking about today is an indication that after strict control, full seven years of public sector employment has finally stopped the expansion of uncontrolled employment in the public sector, but on the other hand we are happier and welcome that the moment has finally come for this measure to be implemented, of course, but in a very relaxing form, if I can put it that way. Therefore, after seven years, the regulations relating to the filling of vacancies and vacancy are changed. In fact, so far there has been, we all know, a very complicated obligation to obtain prior consent from the government of Serbia or the famous commission, fully understanding that during the previous period of implementation of the fiscal consolidation measures this was a necessary measure. We have also witnessed that this procedure has led to practical problems. So, problems in practice. The main problem was the lack of personnel in certain sectors, and some issues resolved by increasing contract engagement or by increasing the number of contracts to a certain time. This problem is indeed recognized and listed by the fiscal strategy for the next medium-term period, meaning for the period 2021/2023 years, which is indicated. During the consolidation process, there was a ban on public sector employment. On the one hand, it made it possible, which is good, to control the level of profit, but on the other hand increased the number of working contracts to a certain time, as well as the lack of personnel in certain parts of the public administration. Now, a more flexible way of controlling employment based on medium-term planning of the number of employees in all areas of the public sector is in line with budgetary constraints. The proposed solution that lies ahead of us allowing users of public funds to receive, to a certain extent, the number of employees who do not exceed 70% of the total number of persons who have stopped working, reduced by the number of newly employed in the previous calendar year. I would like to point out once again that the SVM parliamentary group welcomes this solution for several reasons. Perhaps the two or three reasons are the most significant, because this way again there is employment control, which is important to prevent an increase in expenditures in the budget, and thus also to the stability of public finances. This measure is an indicator, but also a test of the maturity of all of us, that we are able to take responsibility for human policy. So, all the users of public funds, the law now allows certain freedom to fill missing priority jobs, which was indeed a huge problem in the previous period. Finally, this relaxation of employment without the consent of the commission, the adequate body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been defined equally for all, which is extremely important for all public funds users. So this provision that we are now introducing and how we are changing the Budgetary System Act is lighting up and that these extremely, as I said, unpopular heavy measures that have been implemented in the previous six-seven years have indeed produced results, but that in some way they are still needed in some slightly defined format and that we are going towards when we are going to respond to regulatory constraints and measures, which are defined as banning, replace the mechanism of responsible management of human resources, which should indeed be such as to meet the requirements of our development and sustainability. The second addition of the Budgetary System Act defines responsibility for commitments. In fact, the current solution from the current law meant a general rule that commitments made during one year could be up to the level of the approved budget appraisal for that year. This is a sound budget rule aimed primarily at maintaining budgetary discipline, i.e. preventing commitment through the amount of appropriations. However, consistent application of this principle in practice means that the budget has actually planned more than a two-month amount for municipal, energy services and for staff expenditure. Why? It's perfectly logical, because we all know that the December accounts from this year we get in January of next year and we pay them on the burden of the next financial year. In the budget, we have to have the amount of appraisal that corresponds to one account from the previous year plus the 12-month fund for the current year. In doing so, we are fully aware that one dozen planned funds will not and cannot be used in the current year, it is the same with staff expenditures, because by the rule of pay is paid after the end of that month. In this respect, the proposed addition of the Budgetary System Law to staff, pensions, energy services, communications services, municipal services and the lease of assets and equipment shall be planned up to the amount to be paid in the current financial year, not to the amount of the commitment made. This problem will be completely overcome in this way. The fact that this exemption covers only permanent expenditure and wages and pensions, i.e. expenditures that are linear, permanent and necessary for the functioning of bodies and organisations, we certainly support it for a number of reasons, is solved the problem of discrepancies between the cash and the accounting principle in planning these expenditures and sums the amount necessary for those purposes to be charged to that financial year. The latter releases funds which would not have been spent on the allocation of other important or important priorities in that year. Finally, what is most important does not reduce fiscal accountability and discipline in terms of commitment. So, to call them that, natural line expenditures are not a place where uncontrollable commitment can be created that would burden future budget periods. Because of all the above, to sum up once again and to point out we are very glad that we finally reached that stage to discuss the draft budget bill after so many years in time, that he is here on time, that we do not have to have a united debate and that we are late, etc. I hope that's how it works in the future. We certainly support the proposed amendments to the Budgetary System Act and all other draft laws on the agenda and in the voting day, SVM MPs will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1340	Thank you, Elvira. I want to go before we go any further, just to let you know that you agree. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. The Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I would also like to inform you that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly is also designated for the draft law and the proposal for a decision, and that Maria Obradovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. Let's move on, Maria Yevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1341	Thank you. The Honorable President, and the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I listened carefully yesterday to your presentations, ministers, about the budget, as well as the debate of my colleagues, as well as today's opening statement on the budget system, and the first thing I notice is that the budget is planned as investment and that much more is invested in improving citizens' living standards. I would especially like to emphasise as a longstanding representative and to commend the separation of 10m euros for the development and improvement of sports and the improvement of conditions both professional and amateur sports and we know that all our hearts are when our athletes win medals around the world and I think they have earned all the support the state can provide, and especially this support has great weight because of the health and financial situation in which the whole world is located, including our country. Yet you are also the Government, or your ministry has found ways to value both sports and our athletes in addition to all the challenges. I have to look back at yesterday's debate, because today's debate and yesterday's debate just intertwined and connected. A colleague, who comes from the Raska region yesterday, has referred a few criticisms to the proposed budget. They referred to the lack of equal resources for all parts of Serbia through the budget, and as MPs coming from the Raska area, it bothered me. You, ministers, immediately denied it even in this biggest crisis year for the entire world economy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out an additional 216 million dinars for liquid liquidity, the end of capital investments for Novi Pazar 191 million, for Sjenica 25 and for Tutin 10 million dinars. A few weeks ago, we renewed the credit for the construction of the Alexandrovac-Tutin pipeline, which represents a great help to both the economy and the citizenship, as well as the end of the Sjenica-Tutin road, which will surely make life easier for all the people who are gravitating in the area. I can't even leave out that the first budget rebalance in 2020 separates 3.3 billion dinars to continue the construction of the Moravski Corridor and is not only important for the Raski district, but also for Rasinski, Zlatiborski, Povoravski. It is a long-term investment that will allow this part of Serbia to develop rapidly and thus slowly decentralised Serbia and move the development centre from Belgrade to other parts of Serbia. From all this we see that the budget is planned to raise the standard of living for all citizens no matter what nationality they belong to. As for the draft law on the budgetary system after many years, we have the opportunity to discuss the final account with the budget. We had a situation in this high house last year to discuss and adopt 17 late-onset accounts. That's when you announced, Minister, that the final bill will be adopted with the budget as the law requires. What makes the final accounts important? First, they are important for citizens to see where every penny was spent and thus the transparency of government work, and on the other hand, it is a good budgetary practice. I would like to commend the presence of the Committee on Finance of the Governors of the National Bank, the President of the Fiscal Council, as well as the representatives of the DRI who had several technical objections, but the final account has been assessed as positive. The Governor pointed out on the Finance Committee that we will be one of the few countries that will have full economic recovery and that the National Bank of Serbia will do everything to preserve the stability of the exchange rate, financial stability and price stability. The draft law on the budgetary system of Article 8 extends the deadline for the introduction of a gender-responsible budgeting in all budgetary users and at all levels of government, and we can boast that we are recognized in the world right after the introduction of the gender-responsible budgeting and we should be proud of everything we have done in this process. One of the government's goals and this is constantly highlighted and potential is to increase the quality of life for both men and women, and in Serbia one of the most important instruments leading towards this is the introduction of gender equal budgeting. One of the most important changes in the proposed Law on the Budget System is the possibility to raise salaries in the public sector and yesterday, ministers, during your exposure that no country in Europe at the time of this pandemic and with all the challenges faced in 2020, solving the various problems that this pandemic has brought, does not increase wages, we are doing so because we have, on time, brought support measures to the economy and we know how much this support was in May and September and October. First we have a 10% salary increase in health care workers and this is one way to thank all people employed in the health sector who have not only for the past nine months, how long this struggle with the pandemic has been going on, day and night, working to preserve all human lives, but also for their daily commitment and sacrifice. And through the proposed budget, large funds have been adopted to further improve the health system in Serbia, as well as infrastructure and working conditions. The government has made sure that we maintain macroeconomic stability, given that we have an increase in wages and pensions and that we have the slightest drop in GDP in Europe, and on the other hand to preserve the lives of our citizens and to respond to the chaos that the pandemic has made. As far as the public debt bill is concerned, I would like to commend the proposed changes relating to the possibility that Serbia will finance projects foreseen by the budget by broadcasting state charters of value. Serbia is in debt to finance infrastructure projects, construction of highways, bridges, railway infrastructure, and not like a few years ago when it is in debt to pay for salaries and pensions. We all know how important investment in infrastructure is, and I am sure that the 2025 project, which covers many infrastructure projects, will be fully implemented, thus improving the standard of citizens and would certainly become one of the most attractive destinations in Europe. As for capital investments for 2021, 330 billion dinars were planned for these purposes. I hope you will continue with the downturn dynamic of public debt, given that it is working daily to improve the fiscal strategy and I have no doubt that it will be. Unique Serbia supports this government's policy to encourage the development of all parts of our country through investments in all segments of society and, as the president of Unity of Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, said yesterday, we will support the Republic's budget because investment and household, as well as the proposed laws accompanying the budget. You have full support for the further work and progress of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1342	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1343	Dear Mrs. Jevdzic, you gave me a cream for one topic I would just like to share with you and the citizens of Serbia, which is investment in sport, investment in the Youth Ministry and the Sports Ministry. You mentioned the help we provided to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovid 19. What Serbian citizens may not know, haven't been heard, or perhaps one of you hasn't heard, as part of a programme to reduce the negative consequences caused by Kovid 19, we provided 1.1 billion dinars last month, so 10m euros in support of sports. I think and I don't remember in the last ten, fifteen years, twenty years, that she was so massive and strong in support of all our clubs. This programme provides assistance for 298 clubs across Serbia, so basketball, volleyball, handball, water polo, wrestling, tekvondo, rowing, cocoa, athletics, shooting, swimming, tennis, table tennis, karate and judo. All first and second league clubs, all clubs, male and female, received aid from 600,000 dinars to 8.5 million dinars, depending on whether they have international competitions. For most of these clubs, it's almost their annual budget. Sports may be the best brand we've got. Sports is also important for our country's promotion. Sports is also important for the health of our nation. It's always kind of a theme here, business aid, minimum earnings, employees, guarantee schemes, moratorium on loans, etc. without forgetting the assistance the Serbian Government has given President Vukic's initiative to the highest number of our sports clubs. I don't think something like this has happened in history, this much mass aid at the moment that this aid is most needed. So 600,000 to 8.5 million dinars, each of these individual clubs. A very important thing, and our commitment to sports and youth is also seen in the budget for 2021. The initial budget for 2020, so for this year, for the Ministry of Sports and Youth was 5.6 billion, and now there are 6.4 billion in the budget and we in this budget have provided not only money for around 570 national recognitions, about 400 scholarships that we give through the Ministry on an annual basis, but also for major international competitions hosted by Serbia. European Women's volleyball championship, women's qualification tournament to go to the Olympics for basketball players, World Cup in Athletics in 2022, World Rowing Championship in 2023. Money for that secured, in the budget of the Ministry of Sports. In doing so, funds were provided for the organisation of over 50 international and national competitions, "Scolariad" – the world championship in school sport will be in Serbia. The Belgrade-Banja Luka cycling race, the World Championship in wrestling until 23 years, the European Ski Cup, the Judo World Cup and 80 other sports and various competitions related to these sports. One very important thing for the end, so the money was also provided for the completion of the multi-functional hall in Belgrade. So, the national training centre for six sports – karate, tekvondo, judo, wrestling, sports climbing and shooting over billions of dinars is also provided for the completion of this multi-functional facility. So these, call smaller sports will have the most modern and best possible conditions to give birth to new champions. So, sport, the development of youth, we are committed not only to this one-time assistance for this year, but also to the budget for next year. Thanks again for reminding me to talk about sports. Not to forget, we also have in the budget money to equip a hundred physical halls throughout Serbia. He was also provided in the budget for 2021. So my colleague Widowic will have something to do next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1344	Thank you, Mr. Minister. counterpart Jevdzic wants to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1345	I'll be brief. Let me just say thank you. And you've finally touched a school sport that's very important and I think it's something that we all need to put on an accent and a youth minister and a sport is doing great. I'm glad he has the help of both the government and your ministry. I just want to tell you that we all have a lot of heart when athletes win medals around the world, but unfortunately we only remember them when it is. You have now shown that the government is thinking long-term and will invest in sports in the coming years and that our athletes who are just getting into those professional athletes who will stand proudly and listen to Serbia's anthem and carry Serbia's flag on their backs will be appreciated by some others who will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1346	Thank you. The next authorised representative of the parliamentary group is the National MP of Ugljesa Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1347	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS in the previous period made its selfless contribution to the stabilisation and consolidation of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, showing together with our coalition partners that we are not afraid of responsibility or any easy decisions and that we are solely guided by the interests of our country and its citizens. Yesterday we discussed the draft budget, today we will discuss, among other things, the final account of the Republic's 2019 budget, as well as the amendments and additions to the Law on the Budgetary System and on public debt. I would like to commend that today we have a final budget account for 2019 which otherwise provides us with information on how the ministries have had the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as how the government has had the budget reserve and the proposed final account for 2019 has practically confirmed all information on the fiscal outcome of the Republic from the monthly reports of the Ministry of Finance. We can proudly say that Serbia ended in 2019 with a surplus in the budget of 16.4 billion dinars, which even the Fiscal Council assessed positively. With the adoption of the final account, we are completing a budget cycle and it is good and the minister spoke about it a little while ago, it is good to respect the legal obligation and become a practice for Members of the People's Parliament to be present in the National Assembly and for the future before the adoption of the budget for the following year to discuss the final budget for the previous year. Amendments to the Law on Public Debt and the introduction of new institutes create opportunities for protection against financial risks, elimination, or reduction of risks due to foreign exchange rates, as well as the change in interest rates as well as others that may arise, in relation to borrowing and establishing a framework for the existence of the possibility of borrowing of the Republic, and for financing projects through securities from domestic and international market values. One of the indicators that we are on the right path will be the participation of interest costs in GDP that was designed to fall to below 1.8% by 2023. The budget system law is the roof law by which budget revenues are provided, budget deadlines are regulated and I believe, of course, all these budget revenues depend on our fiscal policy and real economic resources. Serbia has also shown its seriousness in fiscal policymaking in previous years, but also in this year it is being painted, especially in this difficult situation where we are also in the draft budget for next year. Serbia as a small country, and an open economy, naturally shares the fate of other countries. The consequences of the global economy by some estimates are the largest since World War II and growth, also said Minister Sinisha Mali yesterday, the growth of our economy in 2019 and in the first quarter of 2020 slowed down the epidemic caused by the Coronal Virus and both the global economy and our economy, but I think we have reason to be proud of the decline of our economy by less than 1%, which is one of the greatest successes in all of Europe, especially given, as I said, what led to this and the introduction of an emergency situation in which we have been and the natural decline of demand in such circumstances. The package of measures that the government has brought to 12.5% of GDP has prevented a significant loss of jobs and I believe that without these measures in the coming year our progress would be significantly slower. Also, the timely reaction has provided stability and predictability of our exchange rate, and thanks to all this, we end this year with a public debt participation below 58% in GDP, which is, by all accounts, economic parameters and laws, one significant result that shows among other things and the vitality of our finances. The budget proposal for 2021 is projected on good grounds, very realistic and realistic GDP growth of 6%, down to 3%. Of course, I think that we should be careful about the unforeseen circumstances in which we are, but it also encourages the fact that the government has left reservations on the draft budget for the purpose of consolidation of our economy in the event of unforeseen circumstances and caused by an epidemic. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would particularly like to welcome the amendment of the Law on the Budgetary System which allows for public sector employment, the authorisation of the employment of public funds users of 70% of the total number of persons who have ceased working relationship on any basis of an undefined, reduced by the number of newly employed persons to an indefinite or certain number of trainees. I think it's a great message. I also think that more than that number left the possibility of being employed with the control of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the government's commission, so that the measure itself would not lose its essence and give maximum efficiency. I think it is a great and clear message from the state that, besides new jobs in the private sector, the state thinks of young people, opens its doors to them, and I think, especially at the moment when it comes to health and health, but other segments of our public sector and how it is necessary to renew the staff and to open the door to young and educated people who would be willing to invest their energy, their work and their enthusiasm in the work of state authorities. Also, the increase in public sector wages of 3.5% in January, after which in April 1.5%, as well as in health care 5%, the increase in next year's pensions, all of which on the one hand shows the vitality of our finances, and on the other hand will lead to an increase in our overall demand and an increase in economic activity. This also happened in the previous period when we increased our demand by certain measures as a good method to increase our overall economy. By increasing, too, minimum labour prices, we believe that they will not burden our economy enough and it is shown that the state, and I, as a Socialist Party of Serbia, as a Socialist, is particularly keen to stress this, also taking care of the social component. One of the best indicators is that it is also the fact that from 2012 to 2020, the minimum earnings rose from 12,000 dinars to 32,000 dinars. The government, the entire government, as well as the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Finance showed efficiency in the previous period, efficiency, but what is particularly important when it comes to large systems, a large amount of flexibility to create fiscal space in times of crisis, and to have in the projections for next year investment and in the health system, but also to continue with capital investments, to continue to increase wages and pensions, while maintaining stable our public finances and the pace of public debt cuts. The SPS Parliament Club will support the amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda and which are in front of us by making a full contribution to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for all the challenges ahead. We continue to improve the lives of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia by creating better conditions for the remaining young people in our country. We also create more predictable conditions for bringing investors and opening new jobs, as well as for strengthening our domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1348	Thank you. Before we continue, I must take the opportunity to welcome our long-standing National MP, now State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister, Ms. Maria Obradovic, who has joined us since all members of the government have been invited to this session. To continue, the next authorised representative of the parliamentary group is Ana Čaapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1349	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs on the agenda today we have five draft laws. This set of five draft laws follows the draft budget law for 2021, which is the following legislation: the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the proposal for a law relating to the granting of the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Uncredit of the Bank a.d. Belgrade" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of the Skiing of Serbia under the Treaty on the Long-term Credit for the Construction of the Brzeća Gondola – Mali Karaman and ultimately we have a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the PIO Fund for 2020. Dear Minister, during yesterday's and today's debates, I listened carefully to my fellow MPs, and what I can see is that in the last few years, it is indeed a great pleasure for us MPs of the ruling majority to discuss the budget for the coming year. First of all, we chose the responsible ministers, we chose the responsible Prime Minister, the citizens of Serbia chose the most responsible president in Serbia's history, and according to this, we have, in the light of this, excellent bill proposals. Since the SNS is at the head of the state not only respects the budget calendar, I can freely say that we adopt the budget almost before the deadline for each coming year. The draft budget law for 2021 was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration on 20 November. The same is true with proposals for budget laws for previous years. In addition to respecting the budget calendar, we and next year have budget developments, as well as for previous years, which means that our budget, on the one hand, is focused on the growth of the standard of living of all citizens, through the increase of pensions and wages, and on the other hand, we continue to break the record in 2021, when it comes to public investment. All we can remember is that when Dragan Gilas led Serbia, when Dragan Gilas ran and managed public finances not only late with the adoption of the budget for next year, we adopted the draft budget law for each coming year almost the last days of December. During Dragan Gilas, we could only dream of the draft law on the final account, because no one thought to inform citizens where the state money was spent, or the money of Serbian citizens. The budgets at the time consisted of nothing less than borrowings. They were in debt to finance pensions and salaries and to service public enterprises' debts. SNS members not only do everything in the best interests of Serbian citizens, but informs the citizens of Serbia in a transparent manner where the money of Serbian citizens was spent and for the first time in 18 years today, we are discussing the final account for 2019 and the draft budget law for 2021. So, citizens can track what we've realized, what we've done in the previous period and see what our plans are for the future period. Also, citizens can see what our state of play is in the state register, and the proposal for a final bill for 2019 is just saying that our state of play in the state register is great because in 2019 the fourth year in a row we achieved a surplus in the budget of 30 billion 178 million dinars. The fact is that everything is getting better today than 7.5 years ago, and that's why I understand the enormous amount of anxiety both at Dragan Gilas and his so-called. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come They are, in all likelihood, still in 2012 and do not want to notice that this is 2020 and that the circumstances in Serbia have changed dramatically. By 2012, the state register, the Belgrade City register, belonged only to Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, but in 2012, citizens told the mafia stop, stop crime and the state register, the Belgrade city register was returned to the citizens of Serbia because it belongs to the citizens. The difference between the time Dragan Gilas was in power and the time of Alexander Vukic is the least said. During the time of Dragan Gilas, more than 600m euros in state money ended up in the accounts of Gilas companies, while during the period of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, more than 600m euros in state money was paid to Serbian citizens, each full-time citizen of 100 euros. Also, during Dragan Gilas, only his brother Gojko and Dragan Gilas bought apartments for themselves, while during Alexander Vukic and SNS more than 360 apartments were built for families in the Kingdom whose dwellings were damaged in 2010. It is also built on hundreds of apartments for security forces, while Dragan Gilas melted the weapons of our fathers and grandfathers. So over 30,000 weapons were melted in Željezara Smederevo, Aleksandar Vucic and SNS are equipped with the most modern equipment, and in Željina Smederevo the arrival of a Chinese investor in 2016 now employs over 4,500 people and Željar Smederevo successfully operates. During Dragan Gilas, only two rare diseases could be treated abroad for the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget, while during Alexander Vukic and SNS, of as many as 22 rare diseases. In 2015, when Aleksandar Vucic was prime minister for the first time after 20 years of silence began marking the Day of Remembrance of 2,000 killed and more than 220,000 expelled Serbs from Republika Srpska's territory in the military operation "Storm". It also began to mark the Day of Remembrance of NATO bombing victims. Not to mention culture. As Dragan Gilas closed museums in Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS restored the National Museum in Belgrade, the Museum of Illusions opened, opened and restored to dozens of museums in Serbia. Also, during Dragan Gilas, when it comes to the number of films and series recorded, so during Dragan Gilas, about fifty shows were recorded, while during Alexander Vukic and SNS near 90, which is twice as much. Not to mention the restored fortress in Golupec, not to mention the completed temple of St. Sava. After almost 100 years of waiting we have received the completed temple of the Holy Sava. So it's more than clear to all of us how Dragan Gilas is and why the citizens drove him into the political past. A respected minister, except that in this year you singled out 12.7% of GDP for the economic support package of the economy, you continue to implement measures to raise the standard of living of all citizens in Serbia, through increases in pensions and salaries. You continue to implement infrastructure projects, and for 2021 you have foreseen as many as 330 billion dinars for the realisation of infrastructure projects and for capital investments. When it comes to the transport sector, the most funds are allocated to build a fast track from Belgrade to the border with Hungary, the funds for the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railways, Subotica-Segedin, are defined to continue with the construction of the Moravski Corridor, with the construction of Corridor 11, with the construction of the Frushkogorski Corridor, and so on. In 2021, funds were also defined for the start of the construction of the highway E-70, i.e. the highway from Nis to Merdar in 77km, and this highway is so important because it will represent the engine of development for the entire Toplički district. As for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, capital investments have been more than decimated, i.e. from 4.2 billion dinars in 2014, to as much as 49 billion dinars in 2020. Investments for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant in more than 60 units of local self-government are projected in 2021. In 2021, we continue to reconstruct and build new health homes, with the construction of clinical centres etc. As regards the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision on amendments and amendments to the 2020 PIO Fund's financial plan, amendments and additions, an increase in salaries and pensions is foreseen. So, as of January 1st, we're starting to increase the salaries of health employees by 5%. Also, in 2021, funds to increase the earnings of all public sector employees were defined, up to 3.5% starting on January 1st, or from December's salary, and an additional 1.5% is expected to grow in public sector employees from the March salary, or from April 1st. It also goes with an increase in earnings for members of the Ministry of Defence and 10%, starting with a March salary. So the state takes care of the people who do the most responsible work in our country, that is, the people who defend our people's right to freedom and the people who protect us. When it comes to our oldest citizens, from January 1st, we will have increased pensions by 5.9% and that's not all. In addition to the one-time money aid the pensioners received in April of 4,000 dinars, our oldest citizens, so a million and 717 thousand pensioners expect another payment of one-time cash aid in ten days. What I'm trying to say is that we've provided funds to pay off this one-time cash aid of 5,000 dinars, because the PIO Fund has exceeded the inflow based on the contribution of 10.6 billion dinars. So, we're paying off the one-time cash aid from real resources because we have a larger inflow based on contributions to the PIO Fund and that for even, as I said, 10.6 billion dinars already. When it comes to the private sector, we are equally concerned about the private sector. What I want to say is that wages, i.e. profits in the private sector from 2012 to 2020, have increased by as much as 42%, while profits in the public sector have increased dramatically less than in the private sector by 28%. It is precisely the objective of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the profit gap between the private and public sectors, in order to stimulate our citizens to seek employment in the private sector, because we want a real economy, and we are doing everything we can to achieve that goal. What I would also like to say is that the minimum profit has been dramatically increased, i.e. doubled compared to the 2012 period. In 2012, the minimum earnings amounted to 15,000 dinars, and in 2021, they will amount to as much as 32,000 dinars. I'm quite sure this increase would have been even bigger if we hadn't had this situation with the covid in 2020. In the following year, we will also continue to implement measures to disbursement the economy and the non-taxable part of the profits will increase from 16.300 dinars to 18,300 dinars, because this is exactly how the state wants to leave businesses free of money so that businessmen can increase the profits of their employees or invest those funds and thus create new jobs. The law on the budgetary system provides for the relaxation of the public sector's limited employment measures introduced in 2013. Therefore, users of public funds will have a certain freedom in employment but with respect to responsible and disciplined implementation of human resources policy. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, I would first of all like to point out that in 2020, regardless of the situation with the Kovid, the public debt remained under control, the public debt increased minimally because we should actually bear in mind that the state singled out as much as 12.7% of GDP for the economic support package of the economy. What's good is that public debt is now 57% of our GDP. That's even 3% below the Mastricht level. Compared to other countries, Serbia and how well it stands when it comes to public finances. The state has also managed to save funds, so another minimum profit will be paid for 72,500 people working in catering, hotel, tourist agencies, rent and to agencies by the end of the year, and fiscal stability will not be compromised. The proposal for a public debt law precisely defines hedging, and hedging is an instrument of protection against financial risk. This, in fact, means that the Ministry of Finance will continue to replace expensive and expensive loans from previous authorities, i.e. Dragan Gilas, with interest rates of 7% and 8% in cheap loans with interest rates of about 2%. In this way, the state has also achieved huge savings in the previous period, and in the next period we will save money on this basis. Last June and November, Serbia achieved historic economic success in the international financial market in London by broadcasting long-term Eurobonds with record low interest rates. We achieved low interest rates because there was a huge interest of foreign investors in our national Eurobonds, and this much interest of foreign investors is precisely because monetary and fiscal stability has been achieved in Serbia. This practice continued in 2020, so on 23 November 2020, the Republic of Serbia, for the second time in 2020, went to the London Stock Exchange where we broadcast a bond at an interest rate of 2.12%, to pay off the most expensive bond from 2011, which was issued at an interest rate of 7.25%. If the previous government had issued a bond with an interest rate of 2.12%, we would have made savings of over half a billion euros and imagine what you could have done with that money in Serbia. The current government, i.e. the Serbian Progressive Party, is not increasing public debt, but is paying off the debt of previous authorities and bonds issued by previous authorities. We're reducing the level of public debt. When we're in charge, we're in debt under favourable conditions, and that's for the realisation of infrastructure projects. As we can conclude from everything we heard during today and yesterday's debates, Serbian citizens today have a strong and stable economy that is absolutely resistant to all external earthquakes, Serbian citizens want a high standard of living and quality conditions of life, and that is the essence of all the draft laws that are on the agenda. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" will support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1350	Thank you. Before we go to the speaker list, the word has been made by Minister Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1351	Thank you President Kovac, to thank you for your kind words when I took over the monitoring of this discussion from Minister Sinish Mali. I welcome all my colleagues and who are following us here in the O.R., and the citizens should know that a large number of MPs are present during this debate in the O.R., and the opposition and the ruling majority, of course, which shows that we are truly all politically aware that when we adopt and discuss such an important document in the country, we are clear that we all have to be here, to talk about what are pluses and what minuses of this very important document, which will dictate our pace and mode of operation in the coming year. I replaced Minister Sinisha Malo because he is in the Palace of Serbia in a few minutes, where President Aleksandar Vukic will begin a meeting with ministers in the Serbian government and directors of public enterprises in charge of strategic projects in the areas of infrastructure, mining, energy and economy. It's very important and the public will be aware of that, around 1:30 a.m., the president of the state will come up with the latest information on our plans in this area. That's why I'm now a member of the government here with you in the follow-up discussion today. Thank you, MP Čapić, I have closely followed your presentations and here with my co-workers from the Ministry of Finance indeed all praise for the way you discussed the topics that are on the agenda in parliament. I think it's extremely important that the others don't have to agree with you, to simply explain to the people's language all these figures that are on thousands of sides in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and these accompanying laws. Often these serious financial discussions bother the average citizen, and we are actually talking about how the average citizen in Serbia is going to live, what the wages will be, what pensions will be, what it is from capital infrastructure projects, what it is from social giving, where our culture, our sport, everything that makes the life of a country in Serbia. All praises on my part, and I hope your colleagues want to adopt this way of communicating with citizens, with voters, to understand what we are talking about here today in Parliament. I will take this opportunity very briefly, perhaps later I will have more opportunities, while I am here, to say two or three words about the planned budget for 2021 when the ministry of which I am headed is the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. From the very beginning, here, these few weeks, we have often talked about this in public, and in consultation with the presidents of municipalities and mayors, that we want the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to be particularly understood as a parent home for our cities and municipalities in Serbia, regardless of who is in power in these municipalities. When I say – parent house, it is for me the idea to go back and turn there when it is difficult and when you have exhausted all the resources and all the opportunities to run your own cities and municipalities. And in those difficult moments, you address yourself as a parent's home, but usually every day, to see what it is that we can help, not just when it comes to funding. Because I'll tell you, the budget foreseen for 2021 for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is not some high figure on paper, but what we can do through various international projects funded by international entities and what we can help with networking, contacts with other ministries, public enterprises, institutions in Serbia, is our key task. That's why I'd like you to see people from the Department of State and local self-government in that very light as some kind of contact point that will be permanent to you in your day-to-day management of cities and municipalities. So, according to all sources of funding for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, two billion 457 million 344 thousand dinars are defined, so about two and a half billion dinars. That's an increase of 68% compared to the previous year. I've been trying to get out of the position of the Minister of State and local self-government, and believe me, trust me, and use my political authority, that we are significantly increasing the proposed budget for next year. Here, associates of Sinisha Malia certainly know how much I have crossed the boundaries of decency when it comes to budget planning, but simply working in a political party since 2008 I understand how much help local self-government needs. You're going to say, well, what can you do to help these two and a half billion, which is only 460 million for a budget fund that helps local self-government? Here, let's talk about it. It's not just about the 460 million that you're going to get to help some of your projects, whether it's some sort of a set-up, some kind of lighting, some kind of help with some kind of water and sewerage network, whether it's about ending a home of health, whether it's a reconstruction of some buildings, schools, kindergartens, some kind of playground, or whether it's some kind of space that you need in local self-government. And this year it's going to be less, and we've done a lot of it over the years, and that's helping to organize different events and events in your cities and municipalities. It's something that's also important to function in your midst. So there's a lot of room where we can work together. It's these 460 million dinars, and for that budget fund we'll do somewhere in January, we'll try to get that public call ready as soon as possible, where they can apply all the local self-governments with their projects, but it's important that you now think, when you have about 40-45 days to call that public call, to prepare documents and projects, and to apply it in January, to try to sign the contracts as soon as possible and to get into the realisation of all these projects. Every Thursday from 2 p.m. until the end of the day, I see the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities. We are here as long as we need to be your first contact for what we can help and what we can do to other institutions and ministries to help. Please also report through what we are in contact daily directly on the line of the Ministers with MPs, mayors and municipal presidents, to try to make as much use of our contacts as possible. In addition to this budget fund, there is also a very interesting project. We'll talk about it in the next few days. So 240 million dinars are intended for street appointments in the context of the process of updating the address register. We were in 2019, i.e. the ministry made it possible to mark the newly named streets in a small part of local self-government and for 2021 we planned funds for further implementation of the project. The address register, or further update, is a difficult walking job, where we are actually trying to solve what is not most important in Serbia, but you will agree that it is something that irritates people in everyday life. We don't have a marked street, we don't have the numbers right. It's something that makes everyday life, and I think we should work on it, too. This ministry normally deals with these many everyday things that can sometimes make your life worse and just before coming to parliament, so today around 10.00 hours we have signed contracts with three municipalities, which are Paracin, Topola and Kosjerić, for the opening of a single management post. It's also one of the projects this ministry is doing. A unique administrative place is called complicated, but it's a simple thing. It's one counter, one place in the municipal administration where citizens come and can either orally request what they need from the municipality. So, everything you've been going through, the numerous counters, what you've been looking for in the various municipal services, the competent authorities to finish your jobs, any of the papers, the usual certificates and other papers that we need to complete our administrative procedures, about legalization of land, objects, everything that you go to local self-government every day, now you're going to do in one place. It's a unique administrative place. You submit your request, and the officer who receives your request goes by service, by institutions and tries to solve your problem and only contact you about all this. So we've defined from about five to eight million dinars depending on the size of a municipality by a local self-government, and you need to pick up. Only a dozen towns and municipalities in Serbia currently have a unique administrative place. This significantly facilitates the lives of citizens, you become a better service to citizens and at this point next to 10 cities in Serbia, so we added these three - Topola, Kosjeric and Paracin during the morning, and in four more cities we will open a unique administrative place in December. It's Old Paz, Ratche, Kursumli and Pirot. So, I'll see you by the end of December in your cities, but what I asked the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities to talk to their citizens about. It's not enough for us to define. If you think it's a little five, six, eight million dinars that the state defines to build a counter room, to give the software, to train the workers so they can be at the service of the citizens, if you think it's a little bit, and that's all we've helped you do in your municipalities, without talking about the citizens that they can use, then there's someone on the wrong path. So it's important that you explain everything we do in the modernisation of public administration and local self-government to citizens, to make promotional material and in daily contact with them explain what money is invested in your municipality. We have another beautiful program called – Partnership for Local Development. There are around 463 million dinars, and it is indeed a capital project that needs to improve the provision of services in our municipalities and cities. We are strengthening local finances here, and this significantly affects the decline of population drains, especially in small municipalities, and you have seen what I mentioned, and Kursumlija and Kosjerić, Topola, before that Paracin, therefore, are increasingly smaller places where it is important for citizens to be aware that we are correcting the standard of living, to repair the service provided to them. In this year, when I said unique administrative places, we defined another 40 million dinars, which is very significant. That's where we'll be able to get a dozen safe cities into those already existing cities that have unique administrative places and you don't get a single administrative place in the city, to say conditionally, on beautiful eyes. A unique administrative place means that a municipality when it logs in... Here, a previous competition when we had a registered 12 local self-governments, and only three have passed. It is necessary, therefore, in addition to those technical conditions and space in your municipalities, the municipal administrations that you have and employees who can work there, that you have certain services that you already provide in your municipality, which means that a certain degree of modernisation in your community must already exist and that the opening of a single management place actually means our support to you on your way to modernising your municipality. These were some big things that were in our ministry. There are more projects and I'll talk, of course. We also have through public administration reform excellent co-operation with IPA and there are some significant funds also planned to help the European Union, but we can talk about this later. I will now certainly listen carefully to what it is that is your grudge. I think that only in this serious interaction between the members of the Serbian government and you MPs can we make good results and corrections on this most important document, of course next to the Constitution of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1352	Thank you, Your Honor. As for public administration reform, I'm going to need some IPA-related material for European integration, so I'll talk to you later. Now let's get back to the agenda and, as I pointed out, the list of speakers. The first person I'm going to give my word to is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1353	Thank you. Your Honor, the final account, in addition to the Budget Law, is the most important act to appear in front of the National Assembly during the year. Certainly, the adoption of the final account is an opportunity for us to have insight into what has been done, to look forward to important projects that have been realized or whose realization has begun, but what is more important than that is the auditory, or supervisory function of the National Assembly that I insist on for what time I insist on. Therefore, the adoption of the final account is an opportunity for MPs to play a part in their role through insight into how budget spending is spent during last year. Of course, in one day's debate, we can't do that, certainly because there is a State Auditing Institution, as well as an operational control mechanism, as well as other inspection and other supervisory services, but what we need today to show is our interest in the highest degree, the highest degree of control over budget spending. They look forward to all this information about the projects that have been implemented. The backbone of the Justice and Reconciliation Programme, when it comes to projects, is the highway connection of Novi Pazar to Belgrade, which is already in some phase of realisation, from Požega further to Pestera, then the highway connection of Novi Pazar with Sarajevo, which is generally adopted and in principle we insist that the construction of a clinical centre in Novi Pazar, the construction of an airport, the construction of a railway, the construction of a pipeline, which is already under way and what we welcome, the construction, that is, the formation of a science and technology park, etc. In recent years, we have been looking forward to the invasion of foreign and other capital, but primarily economic, or production investments in this country. Thousands of foreign investment came into this country, and it was our mutual joy and we always supported it. What falls into our eyes is the fact that in 10 years' time, in 30 years' time in Sandzak, no significant production investment has occurred in the Sandzak area. In particular, no factory in the Sandzak area has been opened. Over the past years, we've been counting – we'll come to order, but right now we just don't have room to excuse ourselves, not to ourselves, not to the citizens. Why isn't this place in order? When will it come to order? Is it possible that neither Turkish investment, nor German nor any other can find their own space in Sandzak? I know, I'm aware that the main culprits for the overall situation in the Sandzak area are two political parties who have held this neighborhood hostage for 30 years, but neither can they be just one single excuse and one single culprit. So there must be an audit, there must be control, there must be control and there must be a new page in policy towards this space. It makes it feel like someone wants to hold that space as an ex-terrestrial territory, to send him some message that it's not this country's space and it shouldn't be. It's the wrong policy. The party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will insist on reconciliation, insist on healthy relations, insist on affirmation of everything. As you can see, unlike others, we don't want a conflict policy, we don't even want politics, we don't want a political, party profit on some topics that could profit from a party. Neither can we be expected not to tell these truths. We also cannot ignore these topics that then fuel destructive forces and give them space to run some destructive policies. These days in Novi Pazar, the theft of decades is being discovered. One citizen came up with documentation where two local authorities' mandates were stolen from over 60m euros in budgets. It's on the local media, on social networks, less on this republican, but it can't be kept quiet. Believe that in Novi Pazar, we have a situation among citizens on the edge of the uprising. I can't keep the state authorities of the Republic quiet about it. We're saying that the situation in Tutin, the Shadow is already being exposed, but we need to look this truth in the eye together, and otherwise we're gonna burn together and we're gonna be guilty because we kept quiet because we ignored it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1354	Thank you. The following has been reported with Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1355	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Obradovic, respected co-workers of the finance minister, respected fellow MPs, put on the agenda of the assembly session of the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, demonstrates the government's responsibility to the MPs, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Given that citizens are currently filling the budget, we are obliged to offer them an answer where budget money is spent. This was not a practice in the previous period from 2002 to 2019, when 17 final budgets were adopted, and this year the practice was introduced. This year we are discussing the 2021 budget, but we also have a report from the government where the 2019 budget was spent. I believe that this is how the government shows responsibility, and the Republic of Serbia as a regulated country to respect European standards. The seriousness of the government's work is seen in its consistency, transparent work and responsible spending of taxpayers' money in accordance with the law. That the 2019 budget is well-planned and well realised, testifys and the surplus the minister spoke of. However, the DRI as a control body has made certain remarks to the final budget for 2019, so I would like you to answer when these shortcomings will be removed and what is really the matter. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budgetary system by adopting it from 1 January of the following year to 31 December 2023, new employment will be allowed in the public sector indefinitely and indefinitely, without special permits and consent from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It will be full-time six years after public sector employment is banned. State-owned enterprises and institutions will be able to accept permanent new employees without government approval, but the number of employed workers will not be more than 70% of those who, at that time, have stopped their relationship in the previous calendar year. To exceed that limit, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have to be granted approval, with the ministry's consent. The health ban is due to a pandemic crisis that has been lifted by the force of opportunity. Enlightening the suspension of the ban on employment indefinitely came a little earlier this year in January. So teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers who stand out for quality and dedicated work, and for years they have been employed for a certain period of time in primary and secondary schools, have been given the opportunity to enter the competition into a permanent working relationship. I find this particularly significant, since I come from education. Since the Ministry of Education to all school administrations, and then to the school directors, has recommended that during the opening of the competition, the Ministry of Education take care of the length of waiting for permanent employment and then the working contribution of teachers, I wonder if there is a mechanism for training control and how to address controversial situations when the director is deaf about the ministry's recommendation? When I talk about education, I can't help but mention that the 2021 budget defines 12 billion dinars more than in the previous year to improve the education system. It speaks clearly of the government's priorities. I must point out that we in the SDPS welcome an increase in the education budget, especially because in our work we have a programme called "The State of Education", which affirms the educational process as a prerequisite for the progress and prosperity of a country. I must mention this occasion the increase in wages in the public sector, primarily in health care and, of course, in the education that endures the enormous burden of the pandemic-induced situation. When it comes to the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2020, it is clear that it is the creation of a prerequisite for the payment of one-off financial assistance from 5,000 dinars to our oldest citizens on 18 December. I consider this assistance valuable, and I don't forget that one-time aid of 4,000 dinars that the pensioners received in April. When a 5.9% pension increase is also taken into account in January under the "Switzerland formula", the social component of the 2021 budget, which SDPS also stands for, is clearly visible. That is why we will support the draft laws and decisions we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1356	Thank you. Next reported is Justina Pupin Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1357	Thank you. The respected chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now on the agenda of the National Assembly of several laws in Serbia's fiscal policy area. I would refer to the proposal for a law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which treats all budget revenues and expenditures of the budget in that year, which appreciates how we and whether we domestically spent the money of our citizens, in which the state invested and ultimately, what were the effects after Serbia's development. Although I am a first-time MP, a member of the SPS parliamentary group, I would also like to talk about this earlier budget from the aspect of the comparison of the figures from 2019, with the budget planned for 2021 that we discussed yesterday. In this regard, as vice-president of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, I would like to dedicate myself to the foreign affairs and diaspora co-operation sector. As someone who has lived and worked in the diaspora for almost a decade, I would just like to draw attention to the importance of Serbia's Mother's diaspora ties and, in that sense, to highlight the importance of the work of the Foreign Ministry, which also includes the Directorate for Co-operation with Diaspora and Serbs in the region. Comparing the final account for 2019, with a budget proposal for 2021, I noticed that the next 2021 increased funds for the Foreign Ministry and the Diaspora Authority. It is a sign that from year to year foreign policy is seen to be important for Serbia's foreign policy position and the importance of the ministry's activities in creating a better picture of Serbia and strengthening friendship between Serbia and many other states. For an orderly and independent country such as the Republic of Serbia, the crown of the international position is exactly the foreign policy conducted by the foreign ministry. The effects on Serbia's external political position have been shown in the previous term when the current National Assembly President, Mr Ivica Dacic, led by the ministry, defended state and national interests in front of all international organisations and strengthened bilateral relations with many countries in the world. It is therefore necessary to further strengthen all capacities of our diplomacy, i.e. to strengthen budget support for foreign policy. It is good that the government has experience from the previous mandate in how much active diplomatic policy is achieved and that the 2021 budget will increase the funds of the Foreign Ministry by as much as 15.9% because we are aware that diplomacy costs, but we are also aware that it depends on our country's foreign policy position and reputation. I would also point to the role of diplomacy and other forms of international co-operation in the conduct of the common state policy as a member of the Parliamentary Friendship Group with the United States and other countries as a form of parliamentary diplomacy. I am taking the opportunity to highlight the importance of the continuity of Serbia's foreign policy and policy as a country of queen to the Serbian diaspora, which represents the important potential of our country in both human and economic terms. That is why I support the follow-up of projects that have been linked by the Diaspora Authority for many years to the queen, which are programmes for the care of the Serbian language, Serbian culture and traditions among the diaspora members, especially among the children who were born there. It's a good thing there's a little more resources for these purposes, too. I personally think it's very important and so-called. soft diplomacy, or public diplomacy, because everywhere in the world it produces results. I stand for further strengthening and raising the role of the Public Diplomacy Sector, to raise the level of visibility of public diplomacy, which in international relations provides better transparency for the articulation of Serbia's foreign-political objectives and interests. Let me point out a positive example from the so-called. soft diplomacy, whose actor I was myself. Namely, I was able to use a book called "When the Serbian flag on the White House" whose author is our esteemed Ambassador, Dr Ljiljana Niksic, to hand over US Ambassador Anthony Gotfrey, to send her to a high-ranking diplomatic post. This has been done and the book has reached the President of America of Donald Trump and Mr. Trump has personally sent Ambassador Niksic a thank-you note and in that thank-you note he mentions Michael Pupin, his great merits, and that we must work on further strengthening the Allied ties between our two states. We will admit it is a great honor for Serbia to have one of our ambassadors get a thank-you note from one of the presidents of the United States. For me as a descendant of our great Michael Pupin, this act has great significance. I would also like to say through this example that all of us are the kind of ambassadors of our Serbia and that each of us must contribute as much as possible to the affirmation of Serbian culture, Serbian identity and Serbian cultural heritage and contribute in the best possible way to Serbia's inclusion in the modern world and to the extent that it implies respect for our state sovereignty and territorial integrity, but also respect for our tradition, and above all respect for our Orthodox faith. In this regard, I support the proposals for acts from this assembly search, and I will do so by the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1358	Thank you, Mrs. Pupin Koscal. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1359	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. I will take the opportunity to welcome representatives of the government who are with us today, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and all citizens of Serbia. Here is the moment when it comes to the work of this respected home probably the most important moment of the year when we have before us laws and laws that actually represent a picture of governance of the state and society in general, when there is before us these days the Budget Law, but also all others following the laws that follow the Budget Law, so the Budgetary System Act, including decisions on the Pension Fund, and also the final account for last year. When it comes to the budget we are also discussing these days and which is causing a lot of public interest, as I said, it is a picture of state and society governance in general and is not a big difference in this plan of income and expenditure compared to the plan of income and expenditure of an average Serbian household i.e. There is no difference when it comes to the principles of income and expenditure planning in the country and the principles of income and expenditure planning in an average Serbian household. Namely, when a household is managed by a man who is responsible, when he manages a man who is thrifty, who is planning and working, then, after a certain time, the household receives certain incomes that are higher than the previous period, and after that, he can also enter certain expenditures that mean and rebuild that household, but also help the family of that host. If a household is run by someone who is a wastelander, then incomes are reduced to asset sales, borrowing, and all these other things are completely reversed and contrary to the case where the household is led by someone who is very responsible. Serbia has had the opportunity to meet both, Serbia has had the opportunity to meet both the wasteful and the hosts, unfortunately and fortunately, and then, as our people would say, against the saints and the tropics, against those who manage the state and the Budget Law and the Budgetary System and Decisions Act and final accounts. What do I mean? When Serbia was run by the wasteful, they can say freely by 2012, and in the northern Serbian province for much longer, you had a budget that barely met that social component. It was also about salaries and pensions as a minimum of social contributions, and on capital investments, I can't even talk about the development component of the budget. It was the result of such management. In 2014, at the head of our joint household, which is called Serbia, comes today's President of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, who is a rational host, who is thrifty, who is planning and working, but who has to take some difficult measures, will be bitter grasses on an angry wound, but these fiscal consolidation measures and reforms will produce certain results, and the result is this budget that is today ahead of us for 2021, the Budget System Act, the final account for 2019. This budget and these laws today also meet the social and development component, but completely social because today through the Budgetary System Act, through decisions concerning the PIO Fund you have a serious increase in both salaries and pensions, we talk about percentages for days, but there is also a development component – there are all important capital projects in it and no one has been stopped. You were from the government to say yesterday – gentlemen, Serbia is fighting on two fronts and I absolutely agree with that. Serbia is also struggling for health today, but is also struggling to continue its development. That's what the projects show. We live at a time when obviously health projects are the most important and as such are in this budget, but we are also fighting a battle on this second front regarding Serbia's development and infrastructure projects. What is important is also to mention that all these infrastructure projects that we are talking about have and how the impact on investors and the fact is that these infrastructure projects depend on the investor's decision to come to some end, whether there will be an increase in employment, and thus on improving the overall standard of people living somewhere. However, all these projects also have a specific political message. Is it not a project that is in motion to build a highway from Preljina to Požega, i.e. from Horgos to Požega, in a political sense, to achieve the eternal dream to make a good connection with Montenegro and to connect with our people who live in Montenegro, but also with that part of the people who live in Republika Srpska, especially in the south of Republika Srpska? It is the same situation when it comes to a road, i.e. a fast roadway connecting the heart of Vojvodina Novi Sad with Loznica and Podrinj in Republika Srpska. Serious guarantees were given by the government and it seems to me to be the highest level of guarantee given when it comes to the construction of the "Buk White" hydropower plant in Republika Srpska. The budget includes projects for the reconstruction of almost all bridges on the Drina, and the old bridge in Ljubljana, and the bridge in Skelani, and the bridge in Šepko, and in Karakaja and the Bridge of King Alexander in Zvornik, which connects Zvornik in Republika Srpska with the rest, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, and it is certainly one important and political message, in addition to what contributes to the development of these environments themselves. However, if I were to have any personal attitudes and personal impressions at all, I must first of all, in front of you representatives of the government and of the citizens to single out a special project that is in this budget, and this is an airport in Trebinj. Over three billion were set aside for the construction of the Trebinj airport. Maybe you government gentlemen aren't even aware, and I don't blame you for that, of course, that this is a historic moment today. I am honored to have the opportunity to participate with my colleagues, first of all, from the Serbian Progressive Party in this and vote today on this thing which, I'm sure, is historic. You know how, after decades, this is, be sure, the most important news in the south of Republika Srpska in Herzegovina, and also in the good part of the north of Montenegro, especially the surrounding Niksic. This is one of the biggest things that's been going on in the last decades in the South, where our people live. In addition to being personally honored, I would also like to express my gratitude to you government members and to you MPs for supporting this, but also to the president of the country whose initiative this was. Here is the best news – there is money in this budget for the construction of the airport in Trebinj. I will also take this opportunity to congratulate, as chairman of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, on your election and on your distinguished minister, as well as to congratulate on the election of the new government in Podgorica and Mr Krivokapic. Exactly 105 years ago, somewhere in December, early and half of December 1915, I will remind you only, the famous Mojkova operation entered its final phase, and the crown of these operations will be the Mojkovska Battle on Christmas Day and Christmas 1916 when Serbia-Montenegro together relying on each other to defend against the great enemy. Here, after 105 years in December, Serbia-Montenegro are back together on the front of the fight against one great enemy, and it is called the Corona virus, but together they are in a fight for a better standard of their citizens. With this in mind, I will take the opportunity to, as a citizen of Serbia, as a national MP and as chairman of the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region to appeal to the new government of Podgorica, its prime minister, to abolish the decision to expel the Serbian ambassador from Podgorica as soon as possible and give them the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity to be one of the first and most important foreign policy decisions the government in Podgorica will make. This, of course, also joins the appeal sent by EU Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Verhelji, but also the wish of a large number of citizens living in Montenegro today, and I am sure of all citizens of Serbia and Republika Srpska. May December after 105 years again be the month of Serbia-Montenegro's unity, show again our unity and our ability to fight together with the challenges this time puts ahead of us. If they need a political role model to do so, let it be the president of the Serbian and government states in Belgrade, which has withdrawn the decision to banish Mr Milosevic, the Montenegrin ambassador to Belgrade. I thank you in the end for all this. Good things are in the budget for 2021, and as long as things are so, be sure, the Prime Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, that in this House, for decisions like this, but also among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also among our citizens who live wider, you will have very much support and that we SNS MPs will vote in the Day for Voting and Budget and Budget Law and for all decisions that follow these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1360	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović, for, as always, inspiringly exhibiting and reminding you of important historical details, which you and your colleague pointed to a few minutes before you did. Speaking of history, since one of today's topics, as far as I can see, is the issue of the deadline and the adoption of the budget that we are dealing with at this session, I would just like to remind all those who are allegedly concerned, terribly concerned about these issues, that the budget has been put into debate within the time period foreseen by our Rules of Procedure, which is a minimum of 15 days, and even a few days after that. Therefore, all procedures and the right of MPs to be fully acquainted with the content are fully respected. The legal obligation for us, as the National Assembly, is to end the adoption of the budget by 15 December, and it will certainly happen, so that there are no grounds for concern, above all, by experts who did not find it appropriate to deal with this issue in 2004, for which the budget was adopted at the end of March 2004, 2007 for which the budget was adopted during or at the end of June 2007, as well as on many occasions when it occurred in the last minutes or even seconds foreseen for the regular session of the Assembly, therefore, far beyond the legal deadlines. So far beyond the legal deadlines today, as you see these problems absolutely do not. It all works like clockwork, and we've provided this year, as well as the previous double time to discuss the budget. You won't find such a practice in years that some obviously yearn for. Let those questions remain for them to continue thinking, we continue with the list. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1361	I thank the chairman. So, the day has come to lay down or settle accounts and it's very good that we've had the opportunity to get past the finance minister, and here we have the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government. Everything we heard from the minister encourages that the next period will be more dynamic in terms of what the work, co-operation and co-ordination of the ministry is related to local self-government. What would be important, in addition to all these indications, is that the ministry takes a little care of how these funds will be received and implemented. Why? Because so far we've had many times, I'm going to speak now from our local perspective, because you've told us that it's very important and that we get to every citizen, very often abuse of the budget, and that's what's left of it. Now we have a DRI that has determined that only the mayor of Novi Pazar and the city council, without any normal solutions from the Social Labour Centre, has purposelessly spent millions and seven hundred thousand dinars. Of course, these are the things concerning the abuse of funds when it comes to the most sensitive category of citizens, socially endangered people. Their dignity is further disrupted. Then, it is very illogical that the project documentation for building two bridges across the Raska River, which is neither Danube nor Sava, where bridges are not several hundred meters, but 20, 30 meters, costs 110,000 euros. So it's all something that's very verifiable and I'm talking about evidence. Then, you heard that these days various affairs are being exposed. It is very abnormal to say that a local kindergarten charges out of the city's budget food for children who eat there and who costs 27 meals a day to eat those children. Or the creation of such a small facility costs 8,000 euros. Or that in every way, what comes from government funds or another way and that people are being abused even more, especially those sensitive categories, children, parents, socially endangered. We have so far had the DRI to establish, some other institutions, however, that there are no sanctions against the perpetrators of these crimes, however, and what is now revealed in 2012, in 2013, journalists have investigated and proved, but instead of getting the support of institutions they have received criminal charges from tycoons, criminals and due to the sprawling of local authorities with parts of the prosecution, with parts of the police and had to pay fines etc. This is about abnormal crimes, and that is why both the ministry and the entire government, and especially because of the decision that this government has to deal with corruption, with crime, would do much more to prevent all of this from being able to implement in a fair way everything we get from the funds and that citizens as the ultimate beneficiaries of all this have some benefits. It's not worth it to the state, even though it needs to give a lot more, if nothing gets to the end users. What do the citizens of New Market have that someone took the money to build maybe two bridges? For that money, two bridges can be built, if all the money is spent under the precepts just to make project documentation for their construction, so in the next 20 years we'll wait to build those bridges. So a new generation will come, as we have a generation that we have experienced in the past 30 years that nothing is concretely tangible about what would be a swing, which would be a force, which would raise the morale of young people to build their future, the future of their families right in those places, but by the inaction of all the organs actually encourage criminals and those who are in corruption to continue to persist and to show to young generations that this may be the way they need to realize their future. That is why it is immeasurably important for us to move forward, that what started with the arrests of criminals, especially those who abuse the budget, continue to implement all this until the end. In the end, I'll end up with that. I want to welcome the decision to increase wages, especially the medical sector, because each of us citizens in the previous period could directly or indirectly see, experience and make sure that this part of our people is the most responsible and that it actually deserves a much, much higher salary and, of course, every kind of gratitude of society compared to what it enjoys today. That is why this decision is really important, and it is especially important to respect and especially to insist that, in future times, medical workers are made more relevant in terms of their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1362	Thank you. The following has been reported to Daniela Veljovic. Time remaining for the parliamentary group four minutes and 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1363	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected minister, co-worker and fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens. The budget is the most important document that has always been a suitable place for conflicting various political views. And as much as it was about all segments of society and the proper distribution of money there will always be room for criticism. That's perfectly legitimate. But it's also legitimate to point out and give priority to all its good sides, and this budget really does. If I spoke of him as a person, I would attribute the following traits to him: bright, energetic, optimistic, empathy. The best thing about capital budget in 2021 is that double funds for physical building projects, or building physical infrastructure. Investments in all kinds of traffic infrastructures, roads, railways, ports are growing. When it comes to the empathy side, it certainly refers to the planned growth of pensions and wages in the public sector, and most of all to health care. As my fellow MP Professor Mijatovic said in his address, the recommendation of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is that the system of profit is gradually arranged both in terms of paying classes and that the negotiations with trade unions on job values were concluded, which was impossible to expect to happen at this time of the pandemic. I welcome transparency in the adoption of the final account, as well as the planning and management of public debt. The good that this unfortunate pandemic has brought us is precisely the awareness of the importance of investing in health care. One part of the budget donations are planned to increase salaries to medical staff, while the second largest part is additional investment in investment, procurement of materials and medicines. It's a really big and very important thing, because without a healthy nation, there's no state. I am fully pleased with the fact of the final awakening when it comes to ecology. The good news for the Kragujevac is that in the future it will breathe nicer and easier, as this budget provides for a change of boilers in the heat in Kragujevac and a transition from solid to environmentally acceptable fuel. Since I come from Kragujevac, I also need to commend the way the local self-government of the city has done the draft budget law. Because of the great interest of citizens and the NGO sector, one of the five proposals accepted is that the money planned for the New Year's celebration, fireworks, is being rerouted to treat sick children. The city's new budget envisions five million dinars. An excellent initiative and a proposal for how other local self-government should work. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always provide support in building a developed institutional system, a system that will provide fair market conditions, protect contract, property and eliminate corruption as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1364	Thank you. The word is Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1365	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Minister Obradovic, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the context of today's topic and debate on the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, and given that Serbia belongs to a group of European countries with expressed regional differences, I would single out and highlight a significant part of the funding of 654 million dinars spent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 to support a measure of equal regional development. It is not necessary to further explain the necessity and necessity of equal regional development, taking into account that our Constitution, the highest legal act, guarantees regional development as a priority and a need. What we should insist on and what we should continue is that there is no unique development model that could be applied to all regional and local communities, i.e. that each municipality and each regional community has specific specificities, special comparative advantages and that we should take advantage of in the best possible way to put it into development. Also, what is common to all of these municipalities and regions is that the most endangered development is still in rural areas. That's why we need to continue to insist on supporting women's entrepreneurship, supporting women in agro-business, but also knowing that it's an unwritten rule that if a woman leaves the rural household, that this household is shut down. There is also no need not to continue to insist on organic food and organic products, because we have had the opportunity to see through the different demand that the need for quality and very healthy food is now particularly current, especially in those industrial and developed countries that do not have that productive ability to make quality food and products. That is why Serbia's development chance is organic food production and we must continue to encourage our agricultural producers to produce organic products and organic food. That is why I am particularly pleased that Mrs Obradovic is here today with us, because the principles of regional development are local self-government, i.e. decentralisation and demetropolisation. Local self-government, in terms of economic development, is an extremely important segment of the state, and this implies that citizens of the Republic of Serbia especially expect local self-government to target all their resources and capacities to solve their problems, namely to target all their resources and capacities towards the employment of citizens, to raise citizens' standards, but also to improve the overall quality of life. It is therefore important that the regional development that we encourage, the development that we encourage in general, especially meet the needs of local self-government, but also to respond to the problems that are present. Something that we should continue to insist on is that economic development does not concentrate and does not encourage only in large and developed areas, especially because the population we have in certain parts of our territory is slowly disappearing due to migration and we should continue to insist on promoting regional development in smaller communities and smaller municipalities, because in large cities we have a high concentration and population and business activities that contribute to major problems such as social, economic, environmental, municipal, etc. That the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to encourage continuity and investment in regional development also shows significant resources identified by the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget. So we have a chance to see that to support the implementation of a measure of equal regional development, an amount of approximately 320 million dinars has been allocated. Thus, the cabinet of ministers without portfolios will have the opportunity to improve the development of underdeveloped municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia through these funds through quality project activities to advance and encourage and agricultural, service or any other sector of devastated and underdeveloped municipalities. On the other hand, they will have the opportunity to carry out all those activities aimed at improving the social economic situation of certain geographical areas. What I would especially point out is that building infrastructure is of great importance if not crucial to creating a stimulating business environment. That is why, as I come from the Zlatibor County, I would especially like to commend the initiative to build the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. This time it will cost us 4.5 billion dinars next year, which is only part of the funds that are scheduled to be invested for this purpose next year. Construction of this highway, Požega – Sarajevo will give an economic impulse to the Zlatibor County. These infrastructure projects not only contribute to the economic development of Užica, which is also the center, the economic center of our district, but also to all other municipalities in the Zlatibor district, which unfortunately most of them belong to the category of underdeveloped. Also, the concept of development should combine all the local and regional potentials that have local self-government and environments, and therefore I would especially point out that there are many important capital investments for the improvement and development of tourism potentials and resources, which again in this area, Zlatiborski, the district has many. Zlatibor, Tara, Wekra Gora, Canyon of the river Uvac, Zlatar, Pribojska Banja. We need to put all these resources into function of regional development and make the best possible way to use all these natural resources. Why does this matter? Because unbalanced regional development not only makes it difficult to develop the state, it also affects all segments of our lives. Because of this, it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to encourage economic development in all parts of our country in the coming period and, also, as the 2021 budget provides for resources that will provide adequate assistance especially for those municipalities that have been devastated and underdeveloped. A balanced regional development is the basis for Serbia's development and Serbia will significantly improve its economic growth and development when it achieves positive effects at the level of its entire territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1366	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Lav – Grigorija Pajkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Obradovic, honourable MPs, respected citizens, I must first of all say that I am extremely pleased with the fact that we will have the opportunity to help our pensioners again. I am also pleased that, regardless of having a world monster, which is Kovid 19, which has put health conditions at risk around the world, and then economically, Serbia has managed proudly to stay on its feet, still has a budget that is at an envious level. While our health workers are on the front, which may not even be hyperbole, but is equivalent to the fronts of our famous ancestors who have had the opportunity to fight for our country and while our government also has one own front, and this is exactly the front economic and while President Vukic is doing his best to keep our Serbia on its feet, which we have simple evidence of what we can see, we can see what? What's the opposition doing? Does she give any constructive criticism on how to better cope with this situation? No, I don't. We have a situation where they come up with these kinds of affairs, and what kind of affairs, those who target President Vukic's family, invent what kind of moving and immovable property the President's brother, Andre Vukic, is being followed by the son of President Vukic, Daniel, which is really scary. I am aware, we live in one, to say, a democratic society and a parliamentary democracy. Political leaders have the opportunity to do all kinds of things to get any points, but attacks on the family are the lowest thing there is. I think it's just something that's sacred. We don't have to hit the family. I asked myself a question – why is that? Why is it that the family of associates of Dragan Djilas, Dragan Djilas, of course, alone as a leader, who are what kind of people who are on the payroll of Dragan Djilas, from Ivan Ivanovic to Kesic, to the media under his control, why are they just targeting President Vukic's family? That, my dear MPs, is because Dragan Gilas is coming from himself. He knows, and we've had our chance and I'm glad our distinguished colleague Sandra Christmas read the many properties of Brother Dragan Gilas, Gojko. We see that they have taken their chance to do something for these citizens, for our citizens, to do something for Serbia for personal gain. Now, given that they come from themselves and simply a 619m-euro figure behind Dragan Gilas is simply a disgrace, but I, as a folk MP, must say that, however specific a figure, is somewhat abstract. It's so big money that an average person, at least like me, can't really understand how much money it is. So I prepared, and my colleague Christmas will forgive me, she's had the same chance to read a number of Gok Gilas apartments, but I've decided to simply put it all together, to see how much Dragan Gilas, his associates, his family, together have mobile and immovable property. You'll see, it's a short one. Believe me, my honourable MPs, the SNS, our parliamentary group Alexander Vukic – For our children, there are not enough minutes as long as Dragan Gilas has property here, so I will try to be as fast as possible, some of which I might skip, some locations, in order to finish today. So, apartment on Sima Street, 91 squares. Another apartment in Belgrade, 56 square meters. A 48 square-square apartment in Dusan Radovic. Apartment in Belgrade, 91 square meters. Apartment in Borislav Pekic, 43 square meters. A location in Fireplace, 15 square meters. Apartment in the Lord of John, 55 square meters. Apartment in Dimitri Tucovic, 67 square meters. Apartment, or five apartments of 127 square meters each. Then, two apartments in Velisava Vujovic of 25 square meters. The apartment in the Lord of Jevrem, 143 square meters, this is creepy to me, I get carried away from these properties. Apartment in Cornelia Stankovic, 61 square meters. Apartment in Svetozar Markovica, 105 square meters. Apartment in Jevrem Grujic, 160 square meters. Of course, let's not skip the garage seats – 12 squares. Another flat in the old town of 82 square feet. Keep in mind that I also included in these apartments apartments belonging to various companies of Dragan Gilas. Then he had an apartment in New Belgrade that belonged to his mother, 57 square meters. Old town, "Multicom Group", 108 square meters. We have one of 65 again, then 55, then 91, then 43. Then we have the same one on the Vracar that we know is worth 140,000 euros, it doesn't say square. Now, we have outside Belgrade, so it didn't just stop in Belgrade. We have one of 48 in Majdanpek, another in Majdanpek 50, one in Bora of 41. And then in Negotina, I'm going to put it correctly, we have 13,310m2 it's a hectare, I don't know either, so I'd better be precise about it. Negotin 198m2, again Negotin 197m2, Negotin 104,985m2, it's kind of, what comes to it, the field, I don't even know what that man has. Now we have five more properties in Zajecar. in Senjak 264m2. In New Belgrade, Multicom Group, an entire building worth 5,500m euros. (Nebojsa Bakarec: Half of Serbia. That's right, dear fellow Bakarec. Detected 579m2, house on Starar 136m2, another apartment, second apartment, third apartment, and that I am not going any further, but should be mentioned, there are several companies still owned, which are worth millions of euros. Two BMWs, and two other cars, it doesn't exactly say which one. Here's a short list. So, what can I tell you? This is a shame I read to you here today. It is a shame that a civil servant who is to serve this people, after his term of office, has so much property. Is this okay? You see, this list, as I said, is a disgraceful list, and this is a list of people living from Serbia, from Serbian citizens. These apartments are not his, these millions, these apartments belong to Serbian citizens, they are Serbian citizens' money. It's a list of people who live off politics. You see, there's a difference between President Vukic and Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas, has devoted all his time to personal wealth, and President Vukic has devoted his time to living for Serbia, living for new jobs, for investment. That's what a politician who lives for his people looks like. That's the key difference. Finally, if you've ever had a chance to wonder how Dragan Gilas can sleep after all he's done, here's proof, this is the perfect way to treat insomnia, reading powerful properties, or counting from one to 619m euros. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1368	Thank you, Mr. Pike, and congratulations on your first presentation at the National Assembly. My colleagues also congratulated me, and you spoke for the first time today. The next one has been reported with Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1369	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, above all, I am pleased to have that chance, Vice President, to envy you, you can congratulate young colleagues who speak for the first time, and speak qualityly, which means that we have done a good job behind us, and that there is a time ahead that will be even better. Congratulations and from me in that sense to all of you who are brave to say in the name of your generation what you think in the Serbian Parliament, because it's important to hear it, because it belongs to you tomorrow, which we all believe will be better. Today, a set of fiscal laws, including the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, is on the agenda. Nice practice. The final account, in fact for the sake of the public of Serbia, highlights the figures on the planned expenditures of the budget for a certain year, and speaks of how realistically we have planned budgets for these budget users and in what extent these funds have been realised, or how effectively we have used budget funds. The final account for 2019 is another well-planned budget in the year in which Serbia achieved, I would say, excellent development results. I will point out that the total public debt on 31 December 2019 was 52%, which is a great result, especially if we go back, I won't do it, some years behind us stay where they are. I, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, am particularly interested in the realisation of the economic budget. In this regard, according to the 2019 budget, more than 32 billion dinars were planned for the Ministry of Economy, 23.5 billion were made. I'm sorry the finance minister isn't here, my distinguished colleague Maria was not a minister at the time, but she was our colleague, but I would really like to get an answer to the question of what it was in 2019, left unrealised from the Ministry of Economy sector. I have no doubt that there are justifiable reasons that there has been no 100% realization, but, for the sake of the public, it is also important to hear and say. This time, however, I would like to share my discussion on the final account for 2019 with the discussion on the draft budget for next year. Noting once again that I am pleased to see the practice of considering the final accounts for the previous year regularly, along with the budget proposals for the following year. That means we're doing everything planically, not scytheically, and that criticism towards parliament is just malicious, maybe a little personal, but it doesn't have much to do with what we're doing right now. The budget for 2021, in my opinion, is planned on a realistic basis with the balance of development and public debt of the state. By means of the budget, but we have heard this, two fundamental, or two strategic goals are being achieved. The first growth in investment, especially those of capital interest to the Republic of Serbia, is the second growth in wages and pensions, which stimulates demand and thus public spending as a stimulator, primarily further production and overall development. What are the strategic objectives of the budget were said by Parliament Group President, my esteemed colleague, Djordje Milicevic, I will not repeat myself, I will deal with part of the budget relating to the economy, i.e. development policy, which in fact represents a healthy component of development and enables the realization of the planned economic growth of 6%, as the planned budget for 2021 tells us. Compared to the 2020 budget, the economic sector in development policy has been set aside for 147.6 billion, primarily due to the measure to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of the covid, which means that no planned measures have been found in the Department of Economy for 2021, and that is a good signal to me, I hope that humanity will come out of this crisis in which it is currently in place. However, the measures on the basis of the covids are planned for the division of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and perhaps in the case of a single ministry, i.e. action that suffered the biggest blow and the greatest damage from the pandemic of the coronary virus of 1.4 billion, it was apparently considered that the tourism sector needs assistance in this respect and in the following year. In the Office for Public Investment, there is a huge reduction in the amount intended for recovery resulting from natural disasters, and I assume that this has a legitimate reason as well. On the other hand, the biggest increase in the economy relates to the founding role of the Republic of Serbia in companies where the state will increase its stakes, as well as to the fiscalisation measures, i.e. providing subsidies for the purchase of fiscal cash registers. This subsidy is planned at three billion dinars. It is clear that the dynamics of investment activity in 2021 will depend on further increases in the production capacity of the economy, i.e. on all business investments, and above all on the continuation of the implementation of the infrastructure projects for which, in 2021, the participation in GDP is estimated in as much as 5.5%. I won't talk about investments any further and it wouldn't make sense after Milutin Mrkonjic, who spoke on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group yesterday, it would be crazy to try and say something. When it comes to certain purposes of the economic budget for 2021, I would like to point out a few things. This is that increased funds to boost the competitiveness of the economy by as much as 58.4%. This should and should improve domestic production and make it competitive on both domestic and international markets and this is important. Investments are planned to attract as much as 114.6% more funding in the coming year, and these funds will be aimed at proposing and implementing measures, encouraging investment, linking companies with strategic investors and free zones. Here, most of the funds are intended for investment subsidies of particular importance for direct investment, as well as for investment in the production of audio-visual parts. The project will be conducted by the Ministry of Economy and the Free Zones Administration, so it is important to stress that too. Funds have been allocated to encourage regional development. There are 4.5 billion dinars in this section, which should be state support for equating development and reducing regional differences in the Republic. I listened to Minister Obradovic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government, a very important resort. You said it well, and I have no doubt for a moment that you will reach every municipality in Serbia and that you will recognize everything, I said, obliging you to do so. I'm kidding, of course. But, knowing a workaholic in you, I know that you will do more than possible to get to any problem that, unfortunately, always arises when it comes to local self-government, because, simply, Serbia is such a terrain, every municipality, not to say every village, talks to itself. For the development of underdeveloped municipalities and devasted areas, here you have mild assistance, certain funds have been provided at the position of the Minister without the portfolio in charge of development, Mr. Tonchev, and I believe you will have quality co-operation there. The most important thing about the economy is to complete the privatisation process and to put all these companies, wherever possible, in the development function, to address the issues of employees in these companies. According to some of the data we have, the Ministry of Economy is privatizing as many as 70 companies at this point. However, it is important to point out that economic development implies both the social responsibility of privatised and emerging enterprises and companies that are to meet their legal obligations, so to operate in the regular zone and to meet their obligations to workers. Of course, there are also the competent state authorities who need to worry about it, and this is now a mild attachment to what my young colleague said before me. So if we all do our job, I'm sure we'll have less problems. Hard times, but the state of Serbia is currently encouraging and subsidising private companies and businesses, which is also a good step, all in order to strengthen the real sector, because it is actually a engine of development and that is what is in practice called a real economy. We certainly need to encourage more domestic entrepreneurs, domestic businesses, provide them with subsidies and favourable loans. We must adapt domestic production to the standards of Europe, that is, Serbia's real development path. This wants to stop young and professional staff from going well, it wants to help us to have children born in Serbia, because unfortunately we cannot talk about the budget without also looking back on the problem of white plague and high mortality and one problem that this government, which for me practically has continuity, with good reinforcements in this mandate, has had as a strategy in the last term, and I am sure it will continue in the same direction. What I want to say more, and I'm going to end it, is the social aspect of this budget. In that sense, we also had some discussions yesterday that might have been inadequate, not to use another term because I just don't like to do it, so we tried to measure it and impute the Serbian government that it somehow regionally accessed this budget, so somewhere there's less, somewhere there's more, but I don't get that impression. I am under the impression that the Serbian government, the finance ministry, recognised first and foremost the priorities and that it was related accordingly and planned the budget accordingly. It's absolutely commendable and I'm going to be a patriot's bar again and don't blame me on it, which is an allocation to the KIM office of 2.7 billion, if I'm not mistaken, where it's said to be... You're suffocating me, well, seven billion, but I'm talking about a 2.7 billion category to improve the quality of life. In that part, we didn't understand each other. It's very important, to have awareness that we need to help improve the quality of life of our people living in inhumane conditions. It's not responsible, it's more than that. And it denies any attempt to impute irresponsibleness or any selective approach to any part of Serbia's territory. Mary would expect me to talk about home budgeting at any time, but they spoke yesterday. I remember that time when we had co-operation on raising awareness first of all about how difficult it is to be a woman in politics. It wasn't easy on that road, but we weren't alone, we had full support, and that led us to one percent of my dear friends who I helped amateurally even in that last term, because you were already experienced, sitting in the government today. That's what he promises, and that's what I said when we chose the government. I'll talk about the budget in detail anyway. When it comes to everything that could be through the changes in the law, the possible improvement and the existing state, I will deal with it as a MP in the sense that I'm leaving myself a space to maybe try and correct in a few sentences some of the laws that I think the time has come to be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1370	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. Otherwise, you are absolutely right, it is indeed a great pleasure to be able to congratulate yourself on the first presentations to the young MPs, especially when they are exhibits like those of Mrs Pupin Koscal or Mr Pajkic. But believe it is also a pleasure to have the opportunity to hear famous MPs, such as yourself or Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, who now has a word. Mr. Marinkovic, you won't mind, there is a minister's word before you, Mrs. Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1371	Thank you, Chairman. Here, to join with the praises of the young MPs or, rather, to the new MPs, those who are first in the hall and are all so full of doubts that they will respond to this serious task, which is to be the voter's voice, so those who have circled to enter this assembly hall and it seems that these first reactions to your activities are positive from all parties. So, here's a colleague joined, but what I'm following, and I'm following in detail how the public and the media react, it's clear that you're doing your job well, and everything that now hits your young political authority just needs to confirm to you that you're doing a great job and that you don't have to give up on it and that these are some expensive first lessons, but the more painful they are, you'll be more serious players in politics and in your own parties. Anyway, I'm sorry about this jargon address, but it seems to me at this point the most picturesque. Let's get back to the agenda. I listened carefully to all the MPs who spoke, and now I'm going to give a few answers in such a group, and I want to remind you that Minister Sinisha Mali will be here by 15.00 hours. As I was saying, I'm only here to replace him, probably ill-adjusted, but it's important that government members listen at this point to what your thoughts are, what citizens are. At the moment, the country's president and government ministers and directors of public enterprises are at a meeting in the Palace of Serbia to discuss strategic projects in the areas of infrastructure, mining, energy and economy. So Minister Mali will be with you again from 15.00 hours. I will work to the extent that it is possible to answer your questions, which does not prevent you from repeating the question and asking for more detailed information not only from Minister Malia, but also from other ministers from whose areas you asked for answers. counterpart Samira Ćosovic pointed to irregularities mentioned in the DRI report in this discussion. The legal time limit for the removal of those irregularities set out in the DRI Report shall be 90 days. Irregularities mainly refer to bookkeeping, and I'm really looking for information from the Ministry of Finance right now. The Finance Ministry teams are working to remove these irregularities and will indeed not be in the final account for 2020. Also, relevant control mechanisms have been put in place to prevent the occurrence and other irregularities, but it is extremely important that you constantly monitor and point to failures, because everything you say here, and we respond in front of the Serbian government is actually a kind of control mechanism to show that Serbian citizens are not separated from the legislative and control authorities in the Assembly and us as executive authorities. You had a few more questions for the Minister of Education, but I think he will appear during this debate and it is convenient for Minister Ruzic to answer you about the control of education employment. This is a very important question, especially at the moment when education and all employees in the sector especially carry a burden on their backs, a professional burden, to all young people in our educational institutions, as much as we do, and to really bring this educational process to an end at a maximum percentage. It's very difficult in these conditions online teaching and studying both high school and primary school and preschool education that we can make a maximum impact. That's why it's a very difficult task and support besides health workers who are absolute heroes of our age, to support the enlighteners. A colleague, Zukorlic, spoke about the situation in Sandzak. There have indeed been several problems and a difficult complex situation here, and when we describe the situation in Sandzak, we must be as precise as possible. It's very dangerous when you say there was no investment in Sandzak. That's not true. That's what people who live there know, and people who get new jobs in different plants. They're smaller plants and they're smaller investments. These are up to 50 jobs, but you'll agree that even one job is something very important, that we don't talk about one job, especially when it comes to women, if it's the textile industry, that it significantly supports the home budget. Is there more to be invested? Of course you should. And at all, the Sandzak issues in several areas, not only economically but also politically, is an area where we have to focus very closely on and think about it in detail, which doesn't mean we haven't done it yet. Mr Zukorlic and his political activists and, of course, the party to which he belongs and all that he has done before show a really good will that, although we may belong to different political organisations that have different political goals somewhere, that we all eventually agree to the same point, that people living in the Republic of Serbia live well in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, live better with a higher standard of living, and that is what I can acknowledge to Mr Zukorlic. He's always asked for more investment, more roads, a better standard of living for people who really live in Sandzak territory where we can't boast about road infrastructure, and that's what's important for everyday life. This is what is being done seriously, that is what Mr. Zukorlic knows, but it is important that he is a serious partner and a constructive critic of the government, and we need such a partner to be our corrective partner. So I'm experiencing criticism from your side and, of course, you have room to be even sharper in it. That is why it is in parliament because citizens recognise that you are their voice and that their wishes and intentions from that part of Serbia are heard louder. You discussed the fight against corruption, i.e. the examples, and your colleague Jahja Fehratovic, also, about cases of arrest, about various affairs. If I say as a member of the government now that it is inadmissible, the citizens will say we have heard it many times, but we need to keep talking about it, we need to talk about new affairs that have been discovered, we need to force fear into the bones of those who plan to continue corruption, with the abuse of the official position, with all possible types of abuse of political power that people have, especially in small areas, because they think that Belgrade, that centrally in Belgrade, slangonically speaking, will not hear what is done in our small place, so people in Prepolje, in Arile, thought they were far enough from Belgrade, far enough from those who control and monitor how state money is spent, money from the state budget, or local self-government. This is the answer for several MPs who have asked the question – do you control where the money ends and is it used for the purpose that you have given from the Republic budget? I can guarantee for myself at this point, and I know what the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is, I know how seriously Parliamentarians are doing on parliamentary committees that have a control role and a supervisory role in how money is spent. Here I will refer to the presentation of Snezana Paunovic who asked why we do not have an execution for the Ministry of Economy and we can talk about it. I'll tell you what's the fact. Three billion dinars have not been spent. The budget was 20.1 billion dinars, realised, that is, 16.4. So three billion dinars have not been spent, and they refer to contracts with investors regarding incentives for employment. The contracts are closed, but it's not paid. So there's no withdrawal money. My answer is complex, but you know what's behind it and that this is one lesson for next year, how we should behave and plan. Anyway, it's a good thing the money didn't go free like that. You mentioned your birth budgeting. This is one commendable project of the Women's Parliamentary Network. I'm not sure if the Women's Parliamentary Network was formed in this session. Yeah, I missed that information. Congratulations on that. My colleague, be brave, no one will be happy to cooperate with the Women's Parliamentary Network, because when you catch up with a firm project like we asked for your birth budgeting, when you ask for changes to the Criminal Code to end the statute of limitations – sexual abuse of minors... Those were big things we did and a lot more. Not everyone will cooperate with you because they'll think you're a decoration and that you'll give up your projects when you hit the wall. Keep going, be serious, be committed. Many young women in your cities and municipalities look at you and want to see how you pass in the Republic Parliament, and many of you, young and new in politics, are now in this room. So much for now, and we'll keep track. Sinisha Mali has been here since 15.00 hours, so you can discuss the budget even more closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1372	Thank you. The word has the Vice-President of the National Assembly Muamer Zukorlic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1373	I thank Minister Obradovic for having responded to my discussion, because it is really the way in which the controversy and the whole debate should be conducted here, because the role of the government's representative in the National Assembly is to give answers. The worst thing that happens sometimes is ignoring the asked question, which doesn't really mean that we have to agree on everything. I'm so glad you commented on my discussion. We've just been a political factor that hasn't missed one meter if it's paved in that space, we've noticed and praised it. On the other hand, I'm very glad that you recognized what really is the way we discuss it here, that it's a highly objective approach. So we want to point out everything that is good with praise and anything that is not right to be corrected together. I'm so glad you recognize that. But when it comes to first, about my criticism of investment, I was very precise in terms. So, I said she didn't come or bring in, they don't come in alone, foreign investments are being made. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't say no job was open. It was open, it was. So if it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't have survived. But I made it clear not to bring foreign investment, because it's illogical and it's not the first time I've asked that question, we only have over 650 investments from Turkey. Is it by any chance and can anyone answer me that the Turks didn't want to invest in Sandzak? What's my logic? So either someone forced them or someone didn't animated them. I don't want anyone here individually and I say I don't feel like politics, but these are questions, as the heart hurts, that initiative private that was in New Market, you know that it was the force of the gins, the force of the conflict, how was it shut down? We know, through crime and corruption. I just want us here to be superpolitical partners in these things and that if we have a fire to put it out together. Especially for these corruptions, it's not about here, it's about that. We expect government representatives when we say - stolen over 60 million, to say we will investigate and investigate, another nothing. Otherwise, you're in no position to give us precise answers, that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1374	Thank you. Right on line, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1375	Very briefly, less, the replica, I thank Minister Obradovic. My tendency was to hear what you said, not for me, but for the public and for all those respects. Well, at the end of the day, we had a report of the Fiscal Council which was criticised and to tell you, it could be denied at any moment, and I could deal with it, but without the ambition to bother you and myself and the Serbian public, so I asked a question that I knew you had an answer, despite the fact that the finance minister is not present, because it is important that the Serbian public hears that even what has not experienced its own realization is not foregone, it is not lost, it is not in any way inadequately spent, but simply at some point it is estimated that it is better. These are some of the answers that we understand, we miss out on time to say them out loud, and then from one such, completely rational approach, we make up a whole bunch of stories that we can barely defend ourselves from, because dominoness is the most dangerous, and dominoness is more and more present in one part of the critics, and then some of our unspeakable words simply make stories of which we are hard to defend as a system. I don't really make any ideological difference here when I speak. In that sense, I also support the vice president, there are issues that are above all issues, the budget is one of these. The budget defines how we will all live, without the difference which political option we belong to, which religion we are from, from which we are part of Serbia. I don't think it has anything to do with planning and realising the budget and the quality of life of all of us together. Thank you again for your response and thank you for your support for the Women's Parliamentary Network. Sandra Christmas is the co-ordinator after the constitution, and I'm sure this young energy will continue where the last synergy stopped, and maybe even step out a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1376	Thank you. Professor Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1377	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Madam Minister, Mrs. Obradovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about statistics much, my colleagues and previous speakers have talked enough about what the budget is for 2021, what is waiting for us. We hope that if, together with our partners from Europe, the region, from around the world, we are fighting this pandemic, so we are expected to have a serious economic growth, we are expected to have further economic development at the conclusion of what is the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which they have managed to do on the face of this challenge. What is the greatest result during this calendar year, which is to preserve the health and economic system and preserve the lives of our people and preserve almost all natural and all other resources that will help us to make our growth much greater in the coming years. Of course, I must commend that the measures and subsidies that will be given, given to the economy and especially to the private sector, were very good, that and how it led to the fact that those most affected by this crisis were helped and prepared, of course, for the coming year and that the news of our country's government bonds was broadcast at an interest rate of 2.5% echoed very positively in the world. This speaks in favour of the fact that in just a few hours, bonds have been purchased from the world's largest private investment funds, and that makes it clear how stable our country is and how much global investors have confidence in the political system, how much trust they have in our country and everything that we have achieved with President Vukic for the past few years has something to do with, of course, our political advances, especially with economic reforms. But to leave the statistics to Professor Miladin Kovacevic and the scientific institutes, I want to say that this economic empowerment of our country is very important because of everything that awaits us in the geo-political domain and the challenges that we will have on the international agenda in the coming period and in the coming years. I can't help but talk about the global geo-political situation changing. I think that this Parliament and our majority in the Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be a strong pillar and strong support for President Vukic and his efforts to preserve the friendships he has created with the world's greatest players and partners, to find of course new allies, to find certain global circumstances and developments on the global geo-political level and geo-political areas do not discourage us from moving on, to continue to fight for our national interests, to fight for our Serbia. Of course, the prerequisite for all this is economic development and economic progress. I would like to mention to my distinguished colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia something that happened yesterday at the American Congress, it was a hearing organised by an American congressman and president of the foreign-political committee of the American Congress, Elliot Engel, which was attended by analysts, or by people who run a certain "tink tank" organisation in Washington, such as Daniel Server, Janush Bugaski and former U.S. Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright. I want to say that as much as these people at the outset of their careers, as embarrassing as what we heard yesterday, as much as it looked like, it seemed like they were actually doing their last fee and what they paid and invested, we invested in them, the Kosovo Albanians, we have to approach this and these messages that they directly referred to the new administration, or as they say, to President Biden and his administration, as some kind of guidance when it comes to future relations with the Balkans. I want to say that all these voices that appear, as much as we get results in the previous period, as much diplomatic victory as President Vukic as he signed the Washington Agreement, gave wind in the back of Serbia, gave wind in the back of our politics and our economy, we need to be careful and we need to react to these things, but also to tell our citizens that the reputation of the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic is such that neither Daniel Server nor Elliot Engel nor Madeline Albright will be able to disrupt it in America, nor in the Russian Federation, nor in China, nor in the EU, anywhere in the world. As much as President Vukic, thanks to his wise policy, has made his vision of foreign-political positioning to Serbia good relations with the Republican administration and administration of President Trampa, I would like to say that he has a correct and excellent relationship with President-elect Joe Biden, and with people who make up his administration, that together with him, by supporting him, we will fight to continue to realise the Washington Agreement, to continue with projects announced by US DFC, which, as Minister Mali noted a few days ago, has a plan to invest in Serbia 1.1 billion dollars. It will be money and it will be funds, Mr. Zukorlic, likely to invest in both your city and your entire region where you live. So only a policy that relies on economy and economic co-operation, and the American ambassador here said a few days ago that it will not change in that domain, is what we will support with our strength and where we will support our president in any case in the fight for better positioning and for the better position of our country, both in America and in the whole world. I have to be honest and open and say that this foreign-political position which is such that Serbia is now treated as a reliable partner of various, most powerful world players is the merit of Alexander Vukic, is the credit of the man who made excellent personal relations with both President Shi and President of the Russian Federation Putin, but also with President Trampe, Michael Pompe, Robert Obrian, Rick Grenel, and that at the end of September 4, this year resulted in our delegation returning to Serbia with the Washington Agreement, with the money coming from the US government and the US state here in our country, investing their companies with an agreement where we saved Lake Gazivod, where we preserved vital national interests, given that the position of the US in the domain of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina was here in our country, and I hope that it would remain that the only possible for Serbia to come to a solution in the long term, that it would be impossible for Serbia to be without having a solution. I must refer to the need for even stronger support here in parliament, the need for even stronger support from our colleagues who are working and who are members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since there are not only those in America, in Europe, in a region that is not glad that Serbia is the economic leader of this region, what are we doing with such a dynamic that we are simply becoming the political and economic leader of this region, so they accuse us and say that Vukic is creating some Serb world, that it is a substitute for something that is a big Serbia project, and what is a shame, why it is ugly to say that there is a Serbian world and that there is a need to protect our national interests and to protect our people wherever he lives, is it a region, is it that northern Macedonia, is it BiH, is it Croatia? What is most interesting is criticised by those who have not taken absolute account of this people, who have tried to rob their people in the motherland, here in the country by destroying our economy, leaving hundreds of thousands of people out of work, and I think we should raise a stronger and stronger voice against all those, such as this Mladjan Djordjevic, who has been announcing for years that Vukic will betray something, define some terms, symbolize those terms, declare it a traitor and all these so-called. The opposition leaders of Djilas, Jeremic leads a kind of hybrid war, a domestic war that aims to dehumanise Alexander Vukic and his family, helping those who, without names and last names on social networks, threaten violence, threaten aggression, and then suck at it, and then are too strong for Minister Vulin when he says – wait for people, as police minister, we need to see what's going on here. We must simply see and react as a serious state and process anyone who threatens the President of the Republic and his family not because he is called Alexander Vukic, but because it is a state and because every threat to him, every threat to his family, is a threat to this country and to his vital and all other interests. To remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that during those who talk about betrayal, during those who contributed that our country has such a bad position in 2012 both geopolitical and economic and regional and each other to be the world's money, that the same one they accuse has contributed and thanks to it 18 countries of the world have recognised or suspended the recognition of so-called. Kosovo, and we see in the report of these people who participated yesterday in this hearing at the American Congress, see what is the first item of that pressure they talk about and what really hurts them the most when you better analyse it, what is the point of each listening, the pressure of these liberal circles in the European Parliament, in Europe, people in a region that is in the area that is in the way of strong Serbia, who are bothered by Serbia that has a rate of unemployment of 6 to 7%, which develops itself, which can protect and which can build infrastructure for its people and in the countries where they live, and that is not the Republic of Serbia, what bothers them? See what Daniel Server says – that there must be pressure on Serbia, though, because so-called Kosovo is not a state unless it has a chair in the UN. Now we come to the finals, in fact to what is the essence of all these pressures and all this talk, which is to put pressure on the inside and on the outside of Serbia to do what President Vukic, of course, has turned down hundreds of times. The latest rejection was in Washington because it was difficult, because it was complex. I remind our citizens that at point 10 of this provision is understood and that mutual recognition will occur between the so-called. Kosovo and Serbia, which the President of the Republic then immediately refused and set a clear red line and became a message to everyone, including the strongest in the world, that Serbia is a reliable partner, that we can co-operate in all areas, that it is an open democratic country, but that it will defend its interests consistently and that the results of what was done from 2014 to 2012 will defend by achieving additional results, even better results in the economy, in geopoliticals, which we will have more friends in both the US Congress or the Senate and the State Department, which he has done in the past few years. I will remind you only and inform the public of our country, the president of the American Congress's Foreign Policy Committee is no longer one of the biggest enemies of Serbia in America, the famous Albanian lobbyist, the known advocate of independence, so-called "Elioth Engel". Kosovo, now it is also a Democrats, but it is called Gregory Meeks and a man who is one of eight signatories of the Letter of Support to the same Vukic and the Republic of Serbia, then State Secretary John Kerri on political and economic reforms. Do you think that's an accident? Do you think anyone in Congress and the Senate has come to think of it that way, is thinking of one Serbia, seven, eight thousand miles away from his district and city, where there are no Serbs voting for him? It's not. It is a fruit and it is the result of a daily dedicated work on the defence of national interests that has produced such results. Those who criticise him today, those who criticise this budget today, those who criticise both the Crisis Staff and parliament, and of course the most on the target is the president and his family, left us with the situation in 2012, so that 114 states, then the UN member admitted so-called. and so-called independence of Kosovo. There's a lot less of them now. Now, in the past few years, the same Vukic has defended our interests in Interpol, defended our interests in UNESCO and shown international players, but also here to these domestic critics, critics, who are all to gather together, the esteemed vice president, have not even 5% of the support of the people of the Republic of Serbia and who want to make some evil here in our country, wanting only to get their money, wanting to do for themselves, their families and their particular interests what they did by 2012. Of course, it won't be allowed anymore. Today, Serbia is a country of cranes, a country of buffers, a country of highway construction, the construction of international, interfaith co-operation, and we show it daily, and it is also seen in debate today that we can, together with Mr Zukorlic and with colleagues from the Vojvodian Hungarian Party, talk about how to promote our country together, how to accept some projects and some ideas that are good and that will help our common country, our common country and people wherever they live, help them to live better and help achieve a decent life from their own work and their families' lives. So, all of this is something that needs to be said openly and openly talk about that the same man who is today the most attacked, someone who has just made the preconditions to become a country that is rapidly developing, someone who, to mention it, is a very interesting thing, until Vucic became Prime Minister and President of the State, our old ally of France forgot about Serbia. I'll remind the citizens, and I'll remind you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that France's maltene had no investment here. Whether or not it is a coincidence that since Vucic became Prime Minister we have their company that takes over the "Nikola Tesla" airport, we have a visit from Emanuel Makron to the President of France here, their parliamentary delegations, one of the great interests of our great old ally, but, among other things, to the citizens of our country, even more importantly, one of the five strongest, most powerful economic military and political forces in the world. People, this is about having people, having a man who makes friends, who creates partners, who brings investors here, which from Serbia is one country where the main interest of the political structure is, right now, I mean, of course, the Serbian Progressive Party as the leading party and the party that is the backbone of the government, the majority of parliament, a party that deals with the lives of ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a party that wants to modernise this country, a party that wants to create jobs here, and where every resident, every citizen of this country is equally important to her. We, as the majority in this House, will remain consistent and committed to this goal of defending these values, but also how to be combative and react to all those anomalies in society that mean that you, without any consensus, because someone will not do your job or someone just say because they are afraid, this morning Minister Stefanovic said that they are afraid of people in the judiciary or in other competent authorities what someone will write on Twitter. Now, we are not afraid here in parliament and we will be constant reminders and we will talk about it every day, as much as we let go, as much as we write about us every day, we will be those who will constantly remind us of that, who will fight to keep everyone in this country safe, to be sure, and, of course, we will fight to defend everything that we have created in the past few years, and it is about improving the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is about giving maximum support to the president of the state for everything he has defined as a strategy for our development in the next few years and I think we have people, too, that we have political will have the will and that we have enough support from all our partners to realise that policy and, of course, we follow President Vukic in the process of further economic strength of this country, but also our vital national interests and our sovereignty and the integrity and integrity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1378	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Since you've spoken to me in your part of the exposure, I can answer you. I think that by assessing the rating for the former regime at about 5%, you've been very gallant, and I think that's significantly less. And it's theoretically assuming that maybe everyone who has one, two percent to perform together, but as you can see, something seems to be not too complicated these days. But the sum could probably be so much in today's European country, as Serbia certainly is, that total consideration is that there is some potential for all vaccineists, even the same. Right on the line, Vice President Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1379	I thank my colleague Marinkovic for the information that part of the U.S. investment will go towards Sandzak. That's really great news. To make the picture clearer, 20 years ago in Novi Pazar there were over 5,000 productive, active manufacturing entities that were primarily engaged in confectation, furniture, shoes, etc. Now, after 20 years, we have survived several hundred formally, and active, really active only a few dozen. So two are the key factors that destroyed the best economic energy that existed at the time. Then, you remember, he called it - a new market economic miracle. As this new market economy miracle is buried, two key factors. The dirty drug capital that threatened, defeated clean capital and honest producers. Through various forms of competition, we can talk about it at some other time. And, corruption, the assembly of local powermakers with inspection services used in dealing with the other side, competition or political or economic. That's two key factors. What's my cry now is to save what can be saved. This nation has shown its capacity for economic activity and how much it wants to do, how much it wants to contribute to itself and to its family, to this country, to its end and to society as a whole. That's my cry. It can still be saved. Let's make a gap between crime and economy in Sandzak, or Novi Pazar, and free these people from abuse of political, local, inspection and other abuses. We all need a real picture here. I don't doubt anyone's intention here. We can do this together, and that's why this discussion is very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1380	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1381	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Scoorlic, just for a little while. It may not be a convenient personal address, but as Minister of State and Local Self-Government, I and chair the Co-ordination Commission for Inspections. That's 44 inspections in the state. What you were saying was that someone was using an inspection to do the maths in someone else, it's a very important thing, and I hope you didn't just say it lightly. It's important that we take a good look at what's going on in the field. Inspects different in the country that exist, I said 44 really require a kind of reform. That's what it's all about. There are projects that are seriously involved in this. Not just strengthening the inspection capacity, but really thinking in that light where you said what was going on on in the field. It's a special subject. I just want to tell you that we're not just going to seriously think about it, we're going to try to find indicators on the ground of what you were talking about. So that you don't just criticize, and we just put the ball back in the line right now – we'll check it out. Indeed, we need to find indicators on the ground that are the arguments for your story. I say once again I believe you didn't say it lightly. It will be one of the tasks of this Coordination Commission that, apart from strengthening capacity, we really improve the work on the ground, we strengthen the supervision of these inspections. It's the pain that citizens meet every day. You were talking about calculating plans. You know, an ordinary citizen and how often he gets hit by an inspection, that is, the inspection doesn't respond to citizens' reports. It's something that's been recorded and it's shown the contact center of the E-Inspector. It is another electronic service that is promoted by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, a service where you can totally report an incident anonymously, something that's a violation on the ground and some of the inspections to react to all of that and give you feedback. If you reported anonymously difficult to get feedback, very quickly, but for that there is a way. Anyway, I'd like to tell the citizens that there's this e-inspector service where you can report something that's a violation on the ground, and that the inspection then comes out, the most different kind of inspection, there are 44 in the state. I just threw an accent on this inspection, so I gave a few more information. I understand what you're talking about, but you've been active in Sandzak territory for a long time now and politically and before. You're someone who can't close his eyes, your activity can't be reduced to reporting irregularities. You have to be our partner, because you see and hear better there and you feel it on your skin. As long as you've been in politics this long, you're a serious author at different levels. You have to be more serious about all this, not just someone reporting. You understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1382	Thank you. Mr. Zukorlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1383	At first, I apologize for going out. I have an education committee scheduled at two o'clock. I hope my colleagues will have their understanding in a few minutes, so I've regained my return because of this further discussion by the minister. Thank you so much for giving us that information. So it's a good thing you notice the importance of this partnership. Rest assured, we stand 100 percent behind every word. We're going to be partners with every factor, even if it's political, any other color in clearing up this space. Here's what's going on in the field after 20 years of government change. Believe it's a miracle of God. Imagine an example of where the president of the municipality previously signed a contract to give 800 ha of land to a man, without a single decision, or to a tender or anything. So, a gift from a man, as if it were his grandfather's, here's yours. I know you're surprised. But please come, come with all the facilities legally provided. You have us as partners, although it's not very popular for our provinces when you call for criminals, thieves, etc., because there are some rebel mentalities there, so he says – look, he wants to be arrested. I'm aware of that, but I can't watch that people and those poor people go down like that. So count on our partnership to deal with corruption, crime, so that finally that honest citizen there can earn his bite for himself and his family. As far as the inspections are concerned, be sure, the information is very accurate, and it's clear exactly what inspector is working for and who he's working for. A lot of times it's been discovered, but unfortunately because of various relationships and girdles, small fish suffer, and yet those who organize it all remain. That's why I'm looking forward to it, this particular rhetoric I hear from you. I didn't doubt it, though. I know you here as a colleague that I've worked with in Parliament, and that's why, more importantly, it sounds like everything you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1384	Thank you. The final presentation in this part of the session, MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1385	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, co-workers and fellow MPs, Honored Minister Obradovic. I want to rely on the discussion of our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic. As a citizen of Serbia, I look forward to an investment in any city in Serbia. But as local patriots to a man who hasn't changed his address when he's elected a National MP who lives in Prepolje, whose family is in Prepolje, we fight to have such investments as "Simens", "Bos", "Svarovski", etc. Large investments in Prijepolje and Novi Pazar and Sannjak. When we talk about investment, we don't want to paint them ethnically. Who's going to work in these companies? Those people who are qualified will work. So it's just important that we have one big investment, we look forward to when they come, as I said, in all the cities of Serbia, but of course, we prefer it to happen in our city and to prevent when we talk about population policy, to prevent emigration, because every day we have regular lines from every city in Sandzak and buses and van transporters carrying younger populations, people my age, younger ones. So that most vital part of society goes to Europe, as far as the Budgetary System Act is concerned, I want to point out that this is a very important law, which we will naturally vote on, which allows for an increase in pensions of 5.9% this year and an increase in health wages and in the public sector of 5%. What's also important, and as far as your portfolio is concerned, is the lifting of the employment ban. I want to point out that local self-governments in the interior have a big problem because of a ban that, so far, has existed, for the simple reason that especially the mayors of municipal administrations and directors of local public enterprises, simply have no longer any opinion in the administrations to trust. So we literally have one employee in one department. I can cite an example of a municipality in Prepolje where there are over 30 employees missing from local self-government in the municipal administration. We can't make local self-government serve citizens unless we have people who will do everything in local self-government entrusted. As for lending and voting for the "Skids of Serbia" law, I would like to point out that Serbia's Public Enterprise is doing very well, however, it also concerns the state administration sector and local self-government. I don't want Serbia's picture to be just the Public Enterprise "Skivals of Serbia". Well done, Capalnik. Good job, Goldibor. Good job, Old Mountain. But what we need to think about systemically is the launch of these smaller centers. So, as someone who actively deals with winter sports, I ask how many citizens and citizens in Serbia can pay for a ski dog, and that's also a question for thinking about the government, on the Kopalnik of between 50 and 100 euros a day and on Zlatibor. What's the idea I want to talk about? The launch of these smaller centres, which will not be commercial, will primarily be sport and education educational, as we had these pioneer centres in the former Yugoslavia. That's where I want to talk about the great odds and the great natural possibilities that the Sanjay municipalities have. In particular, I would like to highlight the place of Apples near Prepolje, which was the largest pioneer center in the former Yugoslavia. Let's see, through the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, through a public enterprise, we will create a tourism organisation for Serbia where the co-ordination body, where it will work with local tourism organisations. We have a problem all with our little ones, with our children who are increasingly paying attention, I don't know computers and other means of modern communication compared to physical education. So that's where I see the chance and when it comes to Mountain Zlatar and when it comes to the ski resort of Žari near Sjenica, which we know that the largest number of representatives in the Nordic disciplines, representatives of the Republic of Serbia come from that part of our country. I want this to be a matter of thought. Something we'll be working on specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1386	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now set a regular break. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. We open this afternoon's work by exhibiting Mrs. Alexic. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I just want to inform you that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has informed me earlier that she will come on behalf of the government to be present from 16 to 18 hours. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1388	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the draft bill on the final account of the budget and for amendments and additions to the Budget System Act. From earlier discussions of my fellow MPs, we saw that we praised the country's strong intervention and reaction in times of crisis. What certainly encourages is the obvious urgency that the measures will not be stopped. The budget that we are about to adopt is, as you said, developmental and if we look at which all infrastructure projects are separate resources we see that all these investments, besides national ones, have regional significance. Of course, we support investment in capital investments, as well as the necessary higher investment in the health system. Employees of medical institutions in the system of military health, health care, as well as employees of the Institute of Sports and Sports Medicine have been followed by salary increases since this month. What is particularly important, and what has been raised as a question is whether this budget is per capita. This budget envisions stable social spending, plans to increase public sector wages, raise pensions, as well as raise minimum earnings. What encourages us is that the government adopted the Regulation on the schedule programme for the use of subsidies to support the work of the catering and tourism industry. You also mentioned a significant subsidisation of projects that encourage the development of entrepreneurship and further investment in innovation. We have come to know the criticisms that the Fiscal Council has made, and as far as this comprehensive plan of income and expenditure is concerned, but also your relationship with these criticisms, in which you have shown that you respect suggestions, but that there is simply no space for calculation, when it comes to the continuity and stability of our economy. I would like to mention that the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Markovic, had a very constructive discussion with the gentlemen of the Fiscal Council a few weeks ago and I would say that he circled that debate by saying that the Fiscal Council was cautious, that he suggested that some things should wait, but that life couldn't wait. The fiscal council also referred to the public sector's privilege compared to private ones in its report. On the other hand, we have testified that the state has helped the private sector with a large package of measures, as well as the tax suspension permits. You also announced the possibility of paying off minimum earnings, then the Minister of Economy, Mrs Atanaskovic, announced that it is planned to provide very favourable loans through banks to the private sector and that the state has allocated 160 million dinars to help entrepreneurs. Our parliamentary group believes that in the coming period you will also have in mind this little uncertain position of private sector employees and that you will react in line with the situation and maintain economic balance as you have so far. I am pleased to have attended yesterday the presentation of Minister Gojkovic who presented her ministry's plan and introduced us to a broad idea of decentralisation of culture not only through the project "Towns in Focus" but in general. We believe that culture should not only be exclusive to cities such as Belgrade and Novi Sad, but should be evenly invested in the institutions of culture of all regions, cities and municipalities, of course taking care of the specificities of all regions. We are also pleased that the minister mentioned that, besides investing in cultural institutions, more affirmation of individuals working and creating in the field of culture is also planned, thinking primarily of independent artists. Serbia plans large investments and work to improve the quality of the environment. The reduction in environmental pollution must be on the list of our priorities and investment in the environment is investments that do not entail risks, but lasting and long-term gains. Serbia should continue to invest in renewable energy sources, to continue implementing environmental protection measures in energy capacity. We need one improved, long-term, effective ecological strategy with a special focus on the waste management strategy. We know that investment in environmental protection is expensive, that lasts, but nothing that affects the quality of life and the health of citizens cannot be expensive. For Serbia as a modern, Balkan and European country, ecology must be a priority, as well as environmental education and education. We expect your ministry to continue to plan the state's public funds comprehensively and carefully in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1389	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1390	Dear President, Mr Dacic, honourable ministers, Mr Mali, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are present today a set of laws, including the draft bill on the budgetary system that will allow for the continuation of the committed work of the state of Serbia and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in the area of KIM. This budget system will allow us to continue to implement the budget needed for the functioning of Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, but will mean a further step towards improving the health and education system in KIM, further building housing units for return families and socially endangered families in the KIM area, but further investing in the tourism potential of KIM. When we talk about improving health care, there is special attention to improving the quality and capacity of health institutions in KIM due to the pandemic of the Corona-19 virus. Here, first of all, we mean the Kosovo Mitrovica Health Center, the Gracanica Clinical Hospital Centre and Gjilana Health Centre, based in Pasjan. A large number of health homes were renovated in the previous period from budget funds through the KIM Office, a large number of health care hospitals in the municipality of Strpce were renovated, the Gjilana Health Centre and the Pasjan maternity centre were equipped, several health homes in central Kosovo's territory were rehabilitated. Departments of Pulmology and Pediatry within the Health Centre of Kosovo Mitrovica have been renovated, but a large number of sanitary vehicles have also been purchased for the purpose of home health Zvecan, Leposavic, the Health Centre of Kosovo Mitrovica, as well as the Institute for Public Health Protection of Kosovo Mitrovica. A fully developed and equipped student polyclinic within the Pristina Student Centre, Kosovo Mitrovica. Among the capital projects is the purchase of wages for the construction of a new hospital within the Clinical Hospital Centre Gracanica and what we are particularly proud of is that this year, the first PSR laboratory was built on KIM within the Kosovo Mitrovica Health Centre. I could do this all day, but I'm afraid I'd need a whole parliamentary group's time if I were to list just how much investment and projects were carried out in the area of KIM when we're talking about health care, but what I would especially like to say is the fact that KIM has received or received more than 300 healthcare professionals in the health system of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. It's 300 health workers with pay more, 300 families with salary and resources more for staying and survival in the Kim area. Such projects, taking into account the importance of health care, and above all the importance of health care for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, lead to the safety of our people, but also increases the percentage of those who want to stay in Kosovo and Metohija, and increases the percentage of those who intend to return and continue their lives in Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about the system of education and investment in the system of education, only in the dounversity system of education was built, equipped or renovated by dozens of pre-school and school institutions in the towns of Lešak, Leposavic, Sočanica, Zubin Potok, in several schools in Kosovo Mitrovica, but also in Gorazdevac, Vidanje, where the elementary school facility “Rados Tošić”, Suvo Grlu, Plemetini, Babina Most, Kosovo Polje, Lipan, Prizren, where for our young people from Prizren is an open educational ward from Oravac. Also in the municipality of Gora, where all schools operating in the Serbian education system in this municipality are fully equipped for our young people and our fellow citizens, a new dormitory for the needs of the Leška agriculture school has been built. All of these projects, implemented by the Republic of Serbia's budget, are more than enough evidence that there is no place with Serbian life in Kosovo and Metohija where the state of Serbia is not present, where the state of Serbia has not invested the funds, where the state of Serbia has not made efforts to help the survival and survival of our people. When we talk about education, we cannot without mentioning one of the headquarters of Serbian statehood in Kosovo and Metohija, which is precisely our University of Pristina, with a temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica, which brings together 10 universities, which gather together more than 10,000 young academics from Kosovo and Metohija and other parts of Serbia. Only in the previous year, funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are assured that all freshmen at our university can be trained on the cost of the Republic of Serbia. It is fully equipped and adapted to the Centre for the Development of Careers at the Faculty of Technical Sciences of our University, an annex of the University's Rectorate was built, and among the capital projects of the Public Investment Office in the coming period there is the construction of a new building of the university, in which it will be located next to our principalate of the university, located and three universities, which, after the war events in 1999, had no adequate space for work. The second project is the construction of the Institute of Judicial Medicine at the Medical Faculty of our university. After visiting the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Kosovo and Metohija in 2018, his initiative launched the first investment cycle in the Serb environments in Kosovo and Metohija. This is the first time Kosovo and Metohija have covered one such investment plan that has so far invested over 60m euros in more than 300 projects, investment projects in the spring environments. A regional water pipeline was built that first solved the problem of Kosovo Mitrovica municipality dependence, Zvečan and surrounding villages in water supply from southern Mitrovica after decades of water supply. In the municipality of Zvecan, the village of Banjska was built a magnificent complex "Rajska Banja", which not only put the whole place on its feet, but also brought the municipality of Zvecan to the center of the tourist events of the region as well. More agricultural cooperatives have been created in Serbian communities south of Ibra. More than 2,000 families were assisted with building materials, fruit dryers were built, a whole series of small domestic enterprises launched. Hundreds of agricultural holdings have been assisted in the form of the provision of agricultural machinery, plastics, seedlings, cattle, anti-urban networks and other agricultural materials. The arrival of Aleksandar Vukic to power and Mark Đurić as director of the Kosovo and Metohija Office has launched the construction of a large number of residents for the needs of internally displaced, socially endangered and return families in Kosovo and Metohija. 40 buildings, i.e. 654 residential units, 233 individual housing facilities, and more than 1,740 individual housing facilities were constructed in the period from 2014 to today. When we add all of this together, we come up with a number of 2,627 families that have been taken care of, 2627 Serbian families in Kosovo and Metohija who have received a roof over their heads. That's eight thousand and more than eight thousand people who got a basic condition for life. By 2102, all these investments, but also many others that the Republic of Serbia has carried out in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, could only dream, because not that the Republic of Serbia has been robbed and devastated, and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija have been abandoned and abandoned by the Dossov authorities led by Dragan Gilas and his coalition partners, but all the investments and assistance that went to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija ended in their pockets. While the people were on their own and fought for the naked survival in Kosovo and Metohija, they bought apartments in exclusive Belgrade locations. More specifically, as we heard from counterparts Lava Pajkic, not only themselves, but also bought their family more than 30 properties at exclusive Belgrade sites, while their local partners in Kosovo and Metohija, under the pretext of patriotism, sent other children into conflict with Albanians, bought apartments in London and other exclusive European locations from Serbian citizens' money. I remind you that by 2012 almost three billion euros went to Kosovo and Metohija for some ten years from the Serbian budget, or more than 53 million dinars a day, so anyone who understands the economy a little better could wonder why Kosovo and Metohija today are not one of the most developed parts of our country, or what the people would say is why Kosovo and Metohija do not look like Bavaria and Kosovo Mitrovica at least as Garmis-Partenkirhen. Now, I from this place, Dragan Gilas and his local partners in Kosovo and Metohija, and I don't mean those partners from Pristina with whom he has been building his own policy for 20 years and with whom he has the only common goal, which is to overthrow Alexander Vukic and murder him and his family, I ask him and his partners from the Serb environments in Kosovo and Metohija -- how much could this school have been made with that money, how many roads, how many hospitals, clinical centres, kindergartens, how many return homes for socially endangered Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija could have been built, how many Serbian children could have been taken care of and fed? I want to show you something. During the current and then coalition partners of Dragan Gilas, internally displaced Serbs and socially endangered families in Kosovo and Metohija lived in such collective centres, if the camera can only get a little closer. This is what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija could expect during their government from the state of Serbia, despite all the money that went away. They lived in impromptu collective accommodations, old abandoned schools and some improvised Polish barracks. This is how Dragan Gilas and his coalition partners fought for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, saving them, taking care of their future. After the arrival of SNS to power and Alexander Vukic today, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, this is an example, see, only Kosovo Mitrovica, live in such buildings, live in such apartments. Actually, in 654 apartments so far, as I mentioned. This is how they live in Kosovo Mitrovica. This is how internally displaced persons live today in such facilities in Lečko, in the municipality of Leposavić. This is what it looks like in the municipality of Strpce. Like I said, it would take me a whole group of MPs to show off everything, but is this how Alexander Vukitch sells kids? Is this how when these fosterers for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, led by Gilas, Obradovic, Mladjan Djordjevic, think this is the sale of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija? The best answer to their lies isn't just these projects. This is Rajska Banja in the village of Banjska in northern Kosovo and Metohija, a regional tourist centre today, after the arrival of Aleksandr Vukic in power and SNS. The best answer to all their lies is the fact that Serbia's 2025 plan in the Serbian environments in Kosovo and Metohija plans to invest more than 150m euros, more than 150m euros in guarantees for the survival and survival of our people, more than 150m euros for the future of our children, as they stole our children's future during their government, Alexander Vukic is today building our children's future. Now, I ask them, if they say that Aleksandar Vukic sells to Serbia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, do they know what this is? This isn't Hollywood. These are neither the expensive apartments of Dragan Gilas or his brother. This is the first return settlement in Kosovo and Metohija. So, no house, no apartment, no building, settlement. It is located between Kosovo Mitrovica and Zvecana, a settlement called Sunny Valley, built by the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, built by Aleksandar Vukic and the diocese of Raško-prizrenska. It is planned that the settlement eventually contains 350 housing units for the internal and socially most vulnerable families on KIM, internally displaced persons and return families to KIM. But not only do I show projects, because at the time of their government on KIM, all we saw were projects. The projects that were carried out on paper, according to the survey board's reports, you can see all of this, on paper were carried out, the works were paid, the advances were paid, "key in hand", which the people would say, was brought in, and when the survey board came out on the spot, he could see not that there was no building, but that there was no stone foundation. Today the Sun Valley looks like this, at this stage. So it'll be over real soon. Very soon the 350 families on KIM will get a roof over their heads, 350 families, over a thousand people will get a roof over their heads. This is how Alexander Vukic fights for the Serbian people. This is how the state of Serbia fights for the Serb people at KIM. With these settlements every house, every apartment, every building, every job that the Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic provides to the Serb people at KIM Bedem is the remains and survival of the Serb people in KIM. It hurts them too! I know that they are in pain, because the Serb people in KIM recognized, the Serb people in KIM are a witness to all these projects I have talked about, and many others. And it was supported by President Alexander Vukic in previous elections and showed. I'll remind you that the KIM SNS won almost 90% of its support. The Serbian people in KIM are aware that only the strong SNS, led by Aleksandar Vukic, can be a guarantee of a strong, economically stable and financially independent Republic of Serbia, because only a strong and economically independent Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to remain and survive the Serbian people in KIM. For we shall not leave our land; there is no return from our land! Long live Serbia, live Kosovo and Metohija!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1391	I thank the MP Milan Savic and join the applause. All congratulations on the extraordinary presentation that was your first presentation in the National Assembly. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1392	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, regular annual practice in the future should be to submit a draft law on the closure of the accounts, which the National Assembly should discuss just as well as to discuss the draft budget law. I note that all these final accounts were subsequently adopted from 2002 to 2018. As for the final account for 2019, we can see here that we have a fiscal surplus of 13.4 billion dinars. And if we look at the other budgets of the previous year, from 2015 to 2018, which are also in surplus, we can only then see how specific the creation of the budget for 2021 was. Because besides the elements affecting budget creation, there is another specific element that is defined by the very specific situation in which not only Serbia, but also the entire planet, which is the pandemic of the covid. The experience the government had in the previous period, and especially in 2020, I am talking about the government in continuity, which is two budget rebalances and various support measures aimed at citizenship and economy, has contributed to the creation of a budget that some would say should have been more restrictive, given that we have a deficit of 178.5 billion dinars. Some would say that the government is quite optimistic about the story that next year, 2021, we're going to have a 6% GDP growth, and I'd say that the government has braved this proposal, because in life, whatever you're dealing with, if you don't have the courage and optimism, you can't succeed. And in life, everything is not ideal and completely predictable. If we look at the final account for 2019, we see big capital investments, but not like in 2021, where 330 billion dinars are planned. I would now make one comparison in two categories, which is investment in environmental protection and road infrastructure. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I would like to say that in Leskovac in 2019, Leskovac received 162 million dinars for the closure of the main wastewater treatment plant and that in 2021 this system will complete, meaning the central waste water treatment plant, the mud line, the water line, etc. and finally have Leskovac get that one modern system. I am also pleased that the trend in investment in environmental protection continues in 2021. As we've heard, there will be over 60 municipalities entering this project. As far as travel infrastructure is concerned, an increase in investment in infrastructure was planned in 2019, and this is also the characteristic of this government, that in 2021 we have a continuation of increased investment in roads. But when we talk about roads, we shouldn't just talk about highways, we need to talk about regional roads, and these are roads that connect villages with cities. And then, when it invests in such regional roads, we have various benefits. One of them is direct assistance to the village, the other is agriculture, stopping or slowing the migration of the population from the village to the city. We in Leskovac this year, 2020, finished one regional road, which connects Leskovac with the Municipality of Vlasotince and it is a direct aid for 15 villages gravitating around the road. However, we in Leskovac have another problem to solve, another regional road, which is Leskovac-Vuče. What my president, Dragan Markovic Palma, would say is the way back to the time of the Turks, because it was made by a cube that was hand-made, such as I doubt there is in Serbia and the world. In the last 50 years, that road has been repaired by asphalt, and you can imagine what that road looks like. When that road is resolved, then both the state and the citizens will have multiple benefits. First, it will be direct assistance for 20-odd villages with 20,000 inhabitants, indirect or direct aid to agriculture, stopping or slowing the migration of the village-city population, because if we have 15 minutes from the farthest village to get to the city center, then that means it. Furthermore, we have increased capacity for rural tourism and tourism in general, as the area of Poreč is known as tourism potential, and also hunting tourism, because this hunting tourism will start in the area as early as 2021, as well as raising the quality of life and large savings of citizens due to the good road. As long as I'm here, I'd have to mention that on that road, there's a village that's generally known in Serbia that has an exceptional feature, which is that every household, every seventh household, has a registered private company. It's the village of the Engineers, and it would mean a lot to them. I'm saying this precisely because the government has defined itself to invest in road infrastructure and therefore we support all of these projects that the government is doing. In the voting day, we will vote for both the budget and these projects that monitor the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1393	Thank you very much. The word has a folk emissary Sanja Lakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1394	Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dear Serbs, you living in the region and the diaspora, the pandemic caused by the coronary virus has brought health, economic and social negative consequences to the whole world, not only our country. All these measures we talked about, not just today, but yesterday, will certainly lead us into sustainable legal frameworks from this state of deficit that we have in the current year. However, in addition to all these measures that we have talked about, which are important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would today talk about three points that are important for our relations with the region. The first point is important for every Albanian, Bosniak and Serb. It is important equally for Belgrade, Pristina and Tirana. This point is the Mini Schengen project that gives this people the right to hope that there will finally be peace in this region, peace that brings us stability, and stability is what is necessary for our European path. However, will we be admitted to the European Union is one question, but the other question is, what can we do to make an economic commitment? The point of binding, according to the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, is exactly the project "Mini Shengena". It's our healing relationship and it's a cure for this region. What does a good relationship mean with a neighbor? We can see that on the case with Slovenia. We have increased foreign trade from 550 million to 1.16 billion euros. Well, that means a good relationship with a neighbor and a better economy and a better economy and better conditions for ordinary citizens. A second point that is also important for our relations with the region concerns Serb communities in the region. This is the point that we are concerned about our Serbs and Serbs living in the surrounding countries. Just a few hundred kilometers from Belgrade, in the European Union, in Croatia, there are still completely destroyed villages where a Serb old woman, an old man, lives for a Serbian child with her parents. And here we talked a lot last week about patriotism, and I think these children are our biggest patriots and the best Serbian representatives in the region. Those children who learn beneath the candles about our Serbian history and those children who travel miles and miles through clay pots to come to a religious class. The courage of these children, but also patriotism, is that you proudly bear your Serbian name and last name, and on the back of the war legacy of the 1990s. And for all those children living in the villages of Kasic, Islam Greece, Smilčić, Smilić, Smoković, Kula Atlagic, for all of you in Karin, Benkovec, for all of you I met in Nazdolje, Bishop, Vrginmost, Topusko, Black, Slavonski Brod, Borovo, for all of you wherever you live in the Republic of Croatia, Serbia has allocated 73 million and 80 scholarships for your education. And not just for your education, but for the education of all children living in Slovenia, Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina, for all of you who are in Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Albania and Romania. That's how a country that cares about Serb communities in the environment, and that's the least they deserve. Personally, as long as I'm in this House, I'm going to fight to make at least in the coming years this budget is bigger, despite being bigger today than it was several times today, and I'm going to talk and write, and I'm going to knock on all the doors because I know how much this support means to these kids. The third point does not talk about the future or the present, but it is also important for both the future and the present. It speaks of the past, talking about Serbia that has finally matured to speak and cultivate a memory culture. At last, the country is not the small Serbia, an economically and politically broken Serbia of 95. We finally took off that shell, and this is not the small and weak Serbia that was shamefully silent and raised the white flag, shamelessly silent and did not allow thousands and thousands of Krajisniks here in downtown Belgrade to show what a destructive life after the war looked like. And it is no longer a small and weak Serbia that has not allowed the same Krajisniks to show the situation of the Serbian tragedy that we experienced in the 1990s here in Belgrade and is neither a small nor a weak Serbia that will not allow the lelek of Serbian mothers and fathers, Zarka, Darka, Jovica, Nevenka and Mirjana, children who have tragically suffered on the Petrovic road when a bombed column of civilians, a column of Serb refugees, is. And that Petrovica road happened to us twice, twice in 100 years. And that's why it's important to remember our past, important to talk about it, important to get all the messages, the lessons, to read all the clues. In that place, for the first time in 25 years, a Serbian president, and Serbia-Serbia again, brotherly and uniquely, said, "Sorry, Krajisniki, sorry and thank you. Thank you and welcome. Welcome to the land where you belong to your entire being." In this place, in a place that remembers every drop of blood and tear, the landscape, and that remembers every crime from Jasenovac to "Storm", in that place, on Raca, will first be built a memorial park for all Krajisniks to remind us of the epilogue "Storms", and the Serbian and Serbian ones and brothers, as they always had to, will raise Donja Gradina's memorial park, Jasenovac, to remind us of the nonsense that took place in World War II. These three points are important for the region. Important because we work with our neighbors, important because we care about our communities, but also important because we remember the past, because thanks to that memory, we may appreciate more of our own lives and we will never again let these terrible crimes that marked the 20th century happen to us. In the end, I would like to congratulate the head of Serbian diplomacy, Mr. Nikola Selakovic, on the final election of the director of the Office for Co-operation with Serbs in the region and the diaspora and I would like to congratulate both Mr. Arno Gujon and wish him enough energy to produce good results in this field as well. I would like to conclude my first speech in the House of the National Assembly with the words of the Patriarch of German: "Let the Jasenovac, and I will add the Storm be a great and terrible reminder that clearly says that love and harmony should be the law of our future life." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1395	I thank you, Mrs. Lakic, and all the congratulations on the extraordinary first presentation in the National Assembly. The word has a folk letter from Daniela Vujičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1396	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, the respected Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of a new budget and a set of financial laws we are discussing today, is always a convenient opportunity to present expectations in the coming period, taking care of all the factors that define it. The budget is also a measure of responsible and serious state behaviour towards the people, whose will is most precisely translated into flows of public finances. That is why the worst form of demagogy that has spread out previous authorities, whose mouth was full of promises, is empty to the people. Let's just remember our pro-European previous governments. Let's think of the self-called Europeans Gilas and Jeremic. While publicly promoting the values of European democracy, they created public finances in secret by filling their pockets. How else do you explain a property card that has nothing inscribed when they come to power and leave the government as multimillionaires? How will Gilas explain that his commitment to European values today actually amounted to more than half a billion euros in personal income? The president of the Freedom and Justice Party, Dragan Gilas, tried rather clumsyly and insolently to get his brother Gok, but also himself out of an affair of buying and selling luxury villas in Jevrem Grujic Street 6, claiming that no transaction had been made either by him or by his brother in this business. They will probably also deny everything my colleagues are previous speaker and Milan Savic, as well as the Lav Pajkic they have brought out. With the view of the contracts, official documents indicate that the company "Comitti ril Estate", whose APR director just mentioned Gojko Gilas and who directly communicated and concluded the sale contract on the mentioned villa in Jevrem Grujic Street6. The contract shows that Gojko Gilas, as director, has just signed a contract on the sale of villa, residential buildings and plots, which clearly proves that Brother Dragan Gilas had a large stake in the sale of controversial property in one of the most luxurious parts of Belgrade. Note, according to official data from APR Gojko Gilas, director of the company and legal representative of the company Komodos Corporijšn, which is registered at fictitious addresses in Delaware, where companies of foreign citizens are registered, whose only aim is to hide money flows and tax avoidance in the country from where owners originate, and precisely suspicious money from the tax paradise in the Americas bought a villa in Dedinj, Belgrade, in the street of Jevrem Grujic, but construction land of 1,083 m2. This suggests that Gojko Gilas, as director of the Komodos Corporation's representative, bought the mentioned properties on Dedinj, and then transferred them to the ownership of the new company "Comiti ril estite", whose company is now the director. We can actually support all of this with papers. I don't know if it can be seen, here's the contract that I have concluded in Belgrade on 25.8.2017, and it's just that the seller "Comiti ril aesthetic" d.o.o. Belgrade and Director Gojko Gilas, and then the contract says that the seller and the documentation provided is the sole owner of 1/1 and that in fact the object of the land contract under the building and the property of the property is one ar 93 m2, and then the property in the building and the second object of the five aria area, the orchard of the first class of three ar 90 m2 and all of this is listed in the List of immovableities and everything is to check in the catastrian municipality of the Sava Venac. The public needs to be reminded of what the value of these properties is. If one ar pays in that location costs about 100,000 euros, which means that 10 acres is worth at least a million euros, if the house is not for demolition, if it is new, it must be worth more than 2,000 euros per square, so all of it costs from a million to 300 million and 500 euros. Even if the house is new and the luxury price can be even higher. And I could talk all day about real estate like all my colleagues here in the Assembly, about the properties owned by Dragan Gilas and his cousins. Then, in fact, these false European forces that they recognize in Europe are only euro. Well, gentlemen, false Europeans, it is a European value for the government to be worthy and working, to create, build and improve, and all of this is precisely a feature of the real Serbian host. It is a successful power that preserves and advances the existing social wealth. Serbia has objectively and honestly managed to cope with many of the crises it has faced all these years. Isn't it proof of this ability and hard eight-year work in the middle of an eight-month world pandemic that we have such public finances that we can continue to build new hospitals, renovate and modernise the existing ones? There are no delays in the realisation of large infrastructure projects. It ends miles and miles of roads and stripes. It starts with building new ones. They are open and new production plants are being opened. Salaries and pensions have reached planned growth. We've secured an increase in health pay. Our army and police are supplied with state-of-the-art equipment and weapons. We're building apartments for military and police. It is invested in rural areas, agriculture and environmental protection. We have opened thousands of jobs and thus managed to reach the lowest unemployment rate in the history of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic and our government, manages to resist the most difficult challenges, to fight for every human life, for every job, for the general well-being of the entire society, and despite numerous challenges on the external and internal agenda, has been exposed to a number of pressures in the country and abroad, our country has primarily preserved the peace and survival of our people in KIM, stagnation and determination. That's the facts. These are our results that bother the most, so-called. the European opposition because they are no longer in a position to take money from city and republican registers. The concept of financial stability is reflected precisely in a set of financial laws ahead of us today, which was created as a result of the proactive engineering of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who proved effective on both regular and extraordinary occasions. Gilasu and his men are bothered that a package of economic measures has helped every citizen. Of course, it bothers them because they have little things to do with them, even though they know that many of them have meant it, it bothers them because they're used to spilling demagogue fog. Their concept is actually a vacuum cleaner, pull out and suck as much money in your own pockets as possible. That's the difference between us and them, that's the difference between Alexander Vukic and them. President Vukic heads the state and simultaneously cares for his people uncompromisingly, sacrificing himself at the altar of Serbia's prosperity, which the pretentious egoism does not recognise and cannot acknowledge, as well as its more obvious abilities and achievements it achieves. I would understand if, in accordance with democratic principles of political action, those who call themselves opposition leaders would serve arguments, not delusions, faceless lies and insults. It would be politically correct for us to be politicians in the focus of rhetoric, not our families and our children. It is unacceptable and must be institutionally sanctioned that anyone's children, in this case the children and family of President Vukic, serve as the most harsh political procedure. These modern-day Pharisees who call themselves the opposition can only be called the mob click. I come from a part of our country where President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have absolute support for the people, not for no reason, because this government has done everything it has promised over the past eight years and significantly improved our people's economic status and security in the southern Serbian province. My colleague Milan Savic has brought out a lot of what has been done from capital investments and what is planned to be done. I will only add that the KIM Office has funded projects that are related to the work and survival of 37 monasteries and churches, along with Eparhya Raško-Prizrenski, fully and partially 46 churches, monasteries and sacral objects of the SPC have been renovated. Citizens' funds through the Office together with Eparhya and new churches and monasteries are being raised in KIM today. We supported the smooth functioning of the folk cuisine on KIM, the purchase of land at critical points. We bought houses where they were forced to change the ethnic structure in the Serb environment. Legal assistance has received more than two thousand of our countrymen and fellow citizens in numerous criminal proceedings and mounted political proceedings against Serbs, where the defence of the defendants has been financed. Legal protection of the property of the Republic of Serbia and economic operators has been organised and financed. We fought and preserved our Trepè, Brezovic, as well as the property of SPC. At Gjilana Health Center, a new maternity home was opened in the village of Pasjana and a paediatric clinic where hundreds of babies of all nationalities were already born. For health institutions, dozens of sanitary and field vehicles are provided. The healthcare stations, hospitals in Velika Ropotovo, Banja, Jažinc and Leposavic were reconstructed and renovated. A completely built and equipped new health home facility "Peć" in Gorazdevec was built. Medical equipment and appliances for all healthcare facilities have been obtained. The funds for the construction of an X-ray hall in Pasjan have been provided, funds have been provided for the adaptation of the X-ray room in Kosovo Mitrovica. Departments of Pediatrics and Pulmology in Kosovo Mitrovica have been renovated. In 20 years, not so many health workers are employed, doctors and nurses and technicians at KBC in Kosovo Mitrovica, where the example works, is 127, of which 45 doctors and 82 nurses are now waiting for another 38 workers. Also, in KBC Pristina, which is in Gracanica at Gjilana Health Centre, and it is actually the largest cycle of employment of health workers since 1999. Over the past seven years, a large number of schools, preschools have been built and renovated, and our students have renovated homes, new college buildings and cabinets. We were paying for the continued assistance of the most socially endangered citizens, helping the families of the returnees, helping the families of the kidnapped and missing persons as a single aid to our fellow citizens. Those who need it regularly were provided with humanitarian food packages and hygiene products. The aid was also provided in the realisation of the seed in the return communities, and the programme also covers the economy of Raško-Prizrenska eparchy. I note that all implemented projects have been done by the KIM Office, led by Mr Marko Djuric for the past seven years, whose contribution is immeasurable in the realization of the same and that the continuity of such policy has now continued Mr Petkovic. Each of these ventures meant colossal, political, diplomatic, legal activity, and a fold. I underline and these are the results of SNS, our Government and our President, Alexander Vukic. As you can see, gentlemen of the opposition, our results show, but you can see your thieving. Mr. Gilas is nice to you, and there's no question about that. If you sleep peacefully tucked in hundreds of millions of euros that you have destitute your own people and the state without any responsibility or shame, you would continue along with your contemporaries Jeremic and your team to operate according to the Burzerish godmother, tycoon principle. That you are enormously rich at the expense of ordinary citizens until you begin to forget the zeroes in your offshore accounts, the hectare of real estate and who knows everything. True, as you can see slowly, but I'm sure it's coming out. It is becoming more and more obvious what you have done and we have no doubt that this truth will finally enter the premises of the judicial institutions and other competent authorities in this country so that no one in power will ever consider using a trusted function to deceive the people and steal state property for personal benefit. The opposition almost daily does not stop attacking President Aleksandar Vukic despite all that he has done and what he does for our people at KIM, that he will sell Kosovo. For the Gilas and the School's media, we're traitors, and what's really true. It is true that the result of Tadic and Jeremic's foreign policy is "diminutio capitis maxima" - a loss of freedom and citizenship for all of us who live on KIM and a date that none of us at KIM and in the rest of Serbia can forget. This is the result of Tadic's and Jeremic's policy, on February 17th, 2008 when Kosovo unilaterally declared independence. The result of our diplomacy and the policies of the president is 19 countries that have withdrawn the recognition of the so-called An independent Kosovo, and then Mladjan Djordjevic, president of the Liberation Movement, shows us lessons about Kosovo these days, and Kosovo visited only once to take a picture. Now I'm going to show you, is this how you free us, Lord Dragan Gilas' godmother? The Republic of Serbia without KIM. We don't exist at KIM for Dragan Gilas and his media. When they look at the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and my people in KIM, we are not here, and the result is also politics, we have long been crossed for Jeremic, from the issues he has asked the International Court of Justice to a disastrous agreement on freedom of movement and the border he has made between Serbs and Serbs. But there will be opportunities. We'll talk about them in the next period. The budget ahead of us, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, is a budget of seriousness, responsibility, and optimism. It is created so that the state can effectively respond to all the assumed and unconceived challenges that we can face. The government's proposal is a proposal for a safer future and I have no dilemma that the budget should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1397	Thank you. I wish you good luck as an MP and success, since I've been here since Mr. Orlic informed that this is your first discussion. I would like to welcome Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who made the decision although Sinisa Mali was designated as a representative of the government at this point in the agenda, but because of the importance of this topic and of course because of parliament, she will be present today in the afternoon part of our debate and I welcome her. Let's move on to the list of MPs. National MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1398	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. In the previous year, we faced a major global crisis caused by the coronary virus, however, the reform processes in the previous period and the serious work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES led to the stability of public finances and that yesterday we had a budget proposal for 2021 and today a set of budgetary laws that is developmental, ambitious and continued continuity of investment in all sectors, with never more investment in infrastructure projects and with money provided to increase wages and pensions. I remember, Mr. Minister, that in January of the month when you were a guest, a lecturer at the Academy of Young Leaders in the moments when a national investment project was to be presented, Serbia 20-25, inspiredly said that in five years, Serbia would be intertwined by highways, rapid railways, that we would renovate absolutely every school, every hospital, every home of health, that we would build new clinical centres and much more. I have to tell you that I listened carefully then and I can't say that I was skeptical, I may be a little bit, but just for the sake of knowing that for example it took us 30 or 40 years to finish Corridor 10 and I couldn't figure out that Corridor 11 could be over in five or six years, that the work at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade continued after all this time and that we would soon finish them. So, all that was very important and what you said would happen, you started to realise this year in 2020, but we also see in this budget proposal for 2021, where nearly 330 billion dinars for capital investments are allocated, another 28.3 billion for local self-government and their projects. This means, Mr. Minister, that this year we have money for the Moravski Korodor, for the start of the works, for the completion of the work on the Požega-Preljina section, for the fast-tracking Iverak-Lajkovac, the Nis-Pločnik highway, the Fruskogorski corridor, the metro in Belgrade, the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway and the fast track of Belgrade-Novi Sad. We also have money to raise salaries in the public sector and to raise pensions, to increase minimum earnings. All this, keeping public debt below the mastrict, so below 60%, holding inflation at about 2%, according to the governor of the National Bank the other day, holding a stable euro and making economic growth towards our projections about 6%. You know, I'm not an economist and I'm not an expert on this area, but I trust numbers, trust you and trust relevant international organisations that say that, above all, the IMF and the World Bank. I must say, often in some media and here we hear that as a Serbian Progressive Party, we cannot bear criticism. That's absolutely not true. We as a party that won 60% in previous elections and how we can stand criticism, but the problem arises when we show our arguments that critics and their criticisms have nothing to do with the truth. It is our job, all of us, to remind the persistent citizens of Serbia where we were in 2012 and where we were in 2020. You know, I know that we're on the right track, and I know that for one simple reason, among other things, because today your budget proposal and all of what you're doing, your program, are criticizing those who weren't so long ago when they were in power said that the crisis was our chance, for example, and they left 500,000 lost jobs in that period, closed dozens of factories and plants. The same ones who destroyed the dinar and the National Bank of Serbia. The course of the dinar, which was 75 dinars in 2008, was 119 dinars in 2012. The same ones who left public debt close to 80%, namely 76.5%. The same ones during whose rule unemployment was over 20%, inflation 12.2%. You know, I may not have some political experience but I'm a rational enough man to know that citizens of Serbia will never, but never again give such people a chance to lead this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1399	Thank you. The word is from MP Tihomir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1400	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice-President and President of the Assembly, dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, I would like first to express the satisfaction that I believe we all feel in this room, which today is an opportunity to support the amendment of the Republic Fund's PIO, which will allow 1,717,000 pensioners to receive one-off aid from 5,000 dinars directly before this year's Nikoldan. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that we all agree that a certain society is healthy and successful when those members of society, the citizens of one country, who are in the strongest years of life and working age, also think about those who need help. Of course, they also think about those, and these are our pensioners who deserve everything they've done in their working lives to think about them enough and all the time. Here, we are doing this decision and not only this, the government and the competent ministries have made an even more important decision in the budget of 2021, which is that pensions increase by 5.9% in accordance with the Swiss formula. The man who thinks most about pensioners and who, over the past few years, has thanked them dozens of times in his public address is President Aleksandar Vukic. He repeatedly stressed that thanks to the understanding of pensioners for those difficult and painful and of course unpopular measures that had to be taken in 2014, an integral part of the financial consolidation measure, several years of pension cuts were necessary. Thanks to these measures, thanks to pensioners' willingness, thanks to Alexander Vukic's vision and to support that vision by, at the end of all citizens of Serbia, we are in a position to think in a completely different way today, after just a few years, to be optimistic, to forget that period just a few years ago when Serbia was one step away from bankruptcy. We are thanks to this willingness of citizens, this willingness of pensioners in the opportunity to discuss today the final budget account for 2019 in the way we speak as optimistic, or optimistic about all that contributes to such a 2019 year for the years to come. The final account of the budget, although it seems uninteresting, unspeakable as something to talk about, is an important topic because of the fact that this final account shows how the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, planned the budget specifically for 2019 whether in a responsible and realistic way. We see from this final account that the 2019 budget was planned realistically and responsibly, that budget revenues were 2.8% higher than planned, and budget expenditures for something little have not been realised, about 0.1% and that instead of the planned budget deficit of six points, we have a budget surplus of twenty-two, three billion. Why does this matter? It is important because this shows that in 2019, this final account shows that it was one of a series of successful years, that it was the fourth year in which the budget surplus was reached, in which the government's public debt was reduced to 52% from 53.7% of GDP as at the end of 2018, and that in 2019 it was significant for what was coming, that the product of the successful 2019 was the largest GDP growth of 5.1% in the first quarter of 2020 and that it produced in 2019 and the previous few successful years was that what hit us all in the world of epidemics, Kovid epidemic, could be welcomed on our feet and fully prepared. The government and the National Bank of Serbia could come out with a set of strong total values of about six billion euros and contribute to the best possible way to preserve jobs, preserve strong economic activity. To be a country that will at least lose in 2020 when it comes to economics, that the decline in our GDP, as the minister said, will be between zero and minus one percent, instead of real minus six percent if there were no such measures. To be a country that, according to estimates, not ourselves, but rather an important financial institution and organisations, global, international, to be a country that will have a GDP growth of around 6% in 2020 in 2021, but also the next two years where GDP growth is among the largest in Europe. All of this is eventually seen in the budget we talked about yesterday, the 2021 budget, which is characterized in two of the most important directions. One is a strong social growth of wages, pensions, minimum earnings, and the other is a strong growth in capital investments. For us Užičana, this is very important, because we are looking forward, like all citizens in Serbia, which in these 330 billion dinars of public capital investment will be a significant part of the money that will finance investments of great importance for the Užice and citizens of the pleasure area. Of course, we're happy to spend money on the end of Milos the Great Preljina-Požega highway. It's for us the veins of the housewives of the development of our neighborhood. When it's over, and it's supposed to be and it's going to be at the end of next year that share. Užice is finally becoming an interesting destination for investors and we believe in many new jobs. What also brings us joy is a strong capital investment in health care. We in Užica as the headquarters of a health center that serves not only the citizens of Užica and the pleasure area, but also the Raška districts, are very fast preparing and finishing the project for the reconstruction of this health center. We believe that in the next few years we too will be users of the ever greater and larger funds that stand out in that direction. What's important is environmental protection. Užice, together with Požega, Arilj, Kosjeric, Ivanjic, is planned and will be planned from the national investment project 2020-2025 as a place with its headquarters in Požega for the construction of a regional waste water treatment facility worth around 70m euros. So I could talk a lot more, but I won't. He would take advantage of the presence of both the Prime Minister and the finance minister if they might reconsider. I know it's not simple and it's not grateful to review the way funds are distributed from non-purpose transfers to local self-government. It was long ago brought and the principle was established 15 years ago. Perhaps the opportunities have changed in the sense that some local self - administrations are in a slightly worse position than they were or in a better position. When it comes to Uzice, it's about 228 million dinars. There's some thinking in our town that might be different, but of course you'll decide everything. In the end, I could talk a lot more, but it is a great pleasure to stop myself now, to stop, to listen to these young educated and beautiful colleagues, to the MPs, young and educated fellow Members of the people who convinced me, all of us here, and I am sure all the citizens who watch and listen that Serbia remains in good hands, in the hands of those who love it and who will be able to preserve and develop it into a prosperous and successful country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1401	Thank you. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1402	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, first of all, I want to apologize for not being here yesterday when we started discussing this important, perhaps most important set of laws. I've had a number of meetings, important meetings with international financial institutions to continue some of the activities we're working on, to start some new activities, especially in the field of environmental protection, which we have set up with a programme for the work of the new government, which you have supported, as one of the basic priorities. The good thing is that in the past 48 hours we have had good meetings with some existing investors who want to continue investing, i.e. to expand their investments in the Republic of Serbia, as well as with some potential new investors, which is indeed a great deal of satisfaction when you see what trust exists in the Republic of Serbia and the politics of the Republic of Serbia, the stability of the Republic of Serbia and our business conditions at a time when we have such a terrible situation all over the world that there really are investors who do not stop their investments already planning new investments in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, today's joint meeting with the President of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic on the most important infrastructure projects, but also on the implementation and speed of the "Serbia 2025" programme, because this is what will ultimately depend on and much better quality of daily life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia wherever they live, in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and finally, the fight for vaccines against Kovid 19. We promised that Serbia would be among the first countries. We're doing our best to have the vaccines as soon as possible, and we've got the vaccines from the manufacturer from the east, the manufacturer from the west. It is an incredible struggle in which you can see that so much power has these strongest countries in the world and that, I am afraid, there will be such an additionally huge gap in wealth between the rich and the poor in this world, it is really incredibly important that Serbia continues to develop at this pace in such difficult circumstances. If we succeed now and you'll notice that some of the MPs have said, if we can use this now, to make up for this gap, then we too of all the others who are going to be behind, we'll be a little bit more distant, and yet we're in an incredibly awkward situation to keep falling behind, and because of this pandemic, we're behind even more advanced countries, which, all of a sudden, in this situation is not going to happen to us. It's a difficult situation, and we fight every day, and that's why I apologized for not being able to be here with Minister Mali and explain to you both the budget and the set of other accompanying laws. When we talk about the things that we will do that are important to us to overcome this crisis and not stay among those countries that are even more lagging behind in this crisis, it is important for me to tell you one thing, which is that today, as many people have been able to see, I was at the conference, or I participated in an online conference of the American Chamber of Commerce of AmChama, which is some of the most important and largest companies operating in the Republic of Serbia, and that despite the crisis of the Crown virus, even two thirds of the members of the company, who are members of the American Chamber of Commerce, said in research that they are planning further investments in the Republic of Serbia, and that it speaks enough about the level of their trust, and that even 56% despite the crisis caused by the Coronus virus, it expects an increase in business in the Republic of Serbia, it continues to grow, and that even 30% expects or plans new employment in 2021. This really speaks best of how much together we have managed to cope with the incredibly difficult situation in which the whole world has found itself and gives optimism that we continue to work, so that Serbia, in order not only to fight for a small decline or the smallest possible fall in Europe, as we will have by the end of this year, but to continue what almost all international financial institutions are predicting today, is that we are growing dynamically in 2021 and 2022 and that, in addition to having the best economic results in 2020, we repeat that again in 2021 and 2022. That's why this budget is so well-conceived, which is why despite the crisis, we plan never to increase the budget for capital investment, because we want to continue our economic dynamics and also because we want to make it easier for these projects to make life easier for our citizens and to raise the quality of their lives, by building roads, by building railways. I hope that if we implement this all the way we planned and we have a good budget implementation for 2021 that we will already have a highway to Požega in 2022, that we will also end the first part of the Moravia Corridor, so that we will have a highway to Kruševec, that we will end the road of Novi Pazar – Tutin and that we will already complete a large part of Kuzmin – Sremska Rača, if not the whole share. These are big things, with us in Q1, in the first quarter of 2021, starting with the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, to start building the track of the Bograd express track – Budapest, so the part from Novi Sad to the border with Subotic, and to finish the fast track of Belgrade – Novi Sad in late 2021. It's a different country, it's a country with a completely different quality of life, with very different potentials. This is already an unrecognizable country compared to where we were in 2013 or 2014, but by 2022 it can be an unrecognizable country compared to where we are today and that's why we fight so much. For all of this we must continue to work hard and all together and, ultimately, we must complete the full implementation of this budget for 2021, because it is extremely ambitious, primarily in the area of capital investment. Two things I also wanted to point out. We're continuing to invest in health care. I am particularly pleased that we have a new salary increase for healthcare workers, that we will try to maintain this dynamic and increase it in 2021, of course it depends on our economy and the discipline of our government and the overall public administration, but that we will most likely, according to all plans, have to finish the Clinical Centre of Serbia in 2021. I hope that in the first quarter of 2021 we are already moving with reconstruction and construction of the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and we are giving the foundation for the Kragujevac Clinical Center. I hope that by our dynamics we end some large homes of health that are important to our citizens, by the end of this year the great House of Health Valjevo, the first quarter of 2021, the Home of Health New now and some other general hospitals. These are amazing things for the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing with health infrastructure. By April, we should complete the reconstruction of the Clinical Center of Serbia's Infectious Clinic and imagine that at no time during this battle with the coronary virus, we did not interrupt the work on the reconstruction of the Clinical Center of Serbia's Infectious Clinic. During 2021, we are to open Dedinje 2, the latest, most modern in Europe, cardio vascular hospital, and we are to start construction work on the latest, most modern in Europe of Tishva Children's Hospital 2. We've already set out to tear down those objects that were there, move out those families that were supposed to move out, move out their better apartments, better quality, living conditions, go to the crash, and in the first quarter we're going to build Tirshaw2. That's what I'm talking about when I say it's a new Serbia, Serbia with a much better perspective, Serbia which is much, much better cared for its citizens and all of this is actually translated into the 2021 budget. For the environment, we've never had a higher budget in the environment. In addition to what we have in the budget, we have here the possibility of planning from Article 3 – withdrawing additional funding for environmental projects, but here we need a great discipline of local self-government units to prepare project-technical documentation and start implementing these projects. I said - we had three clear goals, when we talk about protecting the environment in the term of office of this government. The first ones are the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. We have big cities here. I hope that by the end of this year we finish the wastewater treatment plant in our first big city where it will be such a facility, which is Kruševac and that I will visit Kruševac together with Irena Vujovic by the end of this year to open this wastewater treatment plant. But then let's start in 2021 two major cities, and let's not talk about some smaller local self-government, which is Belgrade and Nis. We're planning on moving on, Cachak and Kragujevac, and that's a big, huge investment. Another major focus is on the management of solid waste and there are separate additional significant resources on such things as the cleaning of illegal dumps, wild dumps and the expansion of those sanitary dumps that we have, such as the deposit of Užice, where the mayor was a respected MP who gave me the reason to report. So, the expansion of the sanitary dump of Uzica, the creation of new transfer stations and the creation of new sanitary dumps. But again, it is also one of the things that is the responsibility of all of us, not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the province government, but also the unit of local self-government, local communities and citizens themselves, where we must learn to protect our Serbia and in this regard. Then, the quality of air protection, that is, air quality and air protection. And here, I am very pleased to say, we launched a new large capital project last week to decapitate the B-Brothermal Power Plant "Nikola Tesla", some 180m-euro investment. We're already building off block A filters at the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. Only between these two projects do you have an investment of about 400m euros, if not something more. These are huge investments in the quality of air that we breathe and protect that air. I also had a good meeting two days ago with the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Mining and Energy to discuss additional energy projects. Today we talked to the President, Alexander Vukic, because if there is one thing that we care about in terms of further economic growth, which is that our energy does not monitor enough the speed of our economic growth and that we have a problem with energy sources compared to how much gas we need, as much electricity we need. That is why I am glad that we are working quickly at the conclusion of the Turkish Stream and that hopefully we will end it by January 2021, that in the first quarter, hopefully we will start to build a new pipeline for Bulgaria in the diversification of our gas sources, but also, in some new energy projects. It will be part of our green transition, and today the president has talked a little bit about a major project that should mean a major transformation beyond our economy and a completely different positioning of Serbia, a project called "Jadar" lithium that should come from Loznica and a large facility that should begin to be built in early 2022. We'll work on it a lot. This is where we budgeted certain funds for Krupanj, for Loznica, infrastructure, traffic and railways. We'll keep working on it. It is indeed a completely different positioning of Serbia for the future. Another thing that some people have been criticizing us about, which is that we should have invested more in education. I'll tell you, I don't think there's ever been any more, as in health care, infrastructure has invested in education. Education remains a priority of this government, as was the priority of the previous government. I asked these people, today I also talked to members of the American Chamber of Commerce to look at the budget in more detail and to see that it is such a strategic priority for us, that it is one of those things where you can't see how much we invest in education just by how much the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is. In most other budgets, i.e. other portfolios' budgets, a large part of the funding is directed right at education. If you look at the budget of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, in the telecommunications section, that's the whole part of the school connection. I hope that the agreement with the European Investment Bank on a 65m-euro investment, or a 65m-euro loan from the European Investment Bank, will be ratified by the next week before you, will be ratified by the agreement with the European Investment Bank on the 65m-euro investment, or a 65m-euro loan from the European Investment Bank, only to connect schools, because by 1 September 2022 we want to complete the integration of schools, to digitise all our schools. If you look at the budget of the Office for IT and Electronic Administration, a large part of that budget, and perhaps the largest part of that total budget is the education budget. So you look at something more than that and you see really what a strategic priority education is, not just by what we invest in education, but by how we as a government, as one team in different ways we invest in education and strengthen our education system. After all, I want to thank you again for your understanding and give you one more apology. It really wasn't right of me not to be here yesterday. I'm trying to make it everywhere. I try to fight for these vaccines, but certainly, as I promised at the beginning of my term, I will try to spend a great deal of my time here in the National Assembly, to listen to you, to answer all questions and to continue, in the best way possible, the development of the Republic of Serbia together because so much potential is ahead of us and so much door opens. As we get the results of everything that has been done in 2014, 2015 and 2016, there is more and more potential and there are more opportunities for our country and we need to achieve it, for this we should all work hard and I thank you once again for your hard work and for having really studied this budget in detail and for asking us questions and for pointing to some things that we may have forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1403	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratislava Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1404	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, since a few days ago I ripped myself out of the rough claws of the coronary virus, I am not in the best shape and I cannot speak as dynamically as I do, and so I will be very brief. Today we are discussing the final account for 2019, and Minister Sinisa Mali has made it clear to us that previous authorities have not even submitted any final account to the representatives of the people in parliament. So, the tycoon-run Serbia did not account for the people, Serbia in which the tycoons, i.e. the tycoons, owned, had a budget aimed at becoming unseemly rich and ordinary citizens living under dignity. The final account for 2019 is an indication that responsibility is a word that describes Alexander Vukic's domestic policy. The politics of Dragan Gilas and the tycoon that once ruled Serbia and never again, the policy is measured in hectares, real estates and own hectares of Dragan Gilas and his closest associates, while Alexander Vukic's policy is measured by kilometers of square factory plants. There's a difference between them and us. Therefore, responsibility is a word describing the government led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and thieving is a word that describes the opposition to which the tycoon, Dragan Djilas, runs. I'm proud to be on my way from my Chuck. I'm as proud as a Chacan that during the pandemic, all serious companies have not fired any workers, no worker has been paid a reduced salary. On the contrary, the first factory... which was recently founded by incentives, among other things, from the Republika Srpska budget, has not fired any workers. On the contrary, they hired more workers. They've increased their wages. The average salary is 80,000 dinars. The same is true for the company Stax, which, despite the pandemic this year, exported to all continents of the world. No one's been fired. On the contrary, new people are employed. Forverk factory looks for new workers every day. So, in a war with a vicious coronary virus, the whole world will be at a loss. And much more developed countries will be in uncomparably greater losses than our country. Our losses are minimal only because responsibility is the word that describes us. I want to thank the builders of the hospital in Batajnica. The venture is to make such a huge hospital in four months with such high capacity, but the venture is that we have the Republic of Serbia's budget so stable that we can finance such a large hospital in four months, financing two more hospitals in two locations in Serbia. We'll be out of this crisis in three, four months, the whole world, and so will we. We'll beat the virus. But it will remain these capacities. No one invested in health care like this government without false modesty. Since the time of socialism, no one has ever painted what was built in health care. And these health investments can be measured by miles of square. In an informal discussion with counterpart Ugljesa Mrdić, we noticed that, and with that, I would like to end up simply leaving time for other colleagues, we noticed colleague Ugljesa Mrdic and I, from the budget many years ago, invested in a Serbian film. It's a big film achievement. We can boast of those film achievements. Believe me, directors, screenwriters, dramatists, our celebrated actors, they're grateful for that. They respect the household policy of Alexander Vukic, a large majority of them, only, unlike that small minority, they are polite and they do not make a fuss. I will be happy to vote in favour of the proposed budget and a set of accompanying laws. Thank you for your attention. I say once again, I'm not exactly in the strongest of strength, but I had the need to address and express my gratitude to the builders first when it comes to this hospital and thank the prime minister for a very contentious discussion. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1405	Thank you. As circled by the SNS parliamentary group, the truth, Bata Jugovic speaks well and often, but for the first time he has spoken now in the National Assembly, so I congratulate him and wish him a successful parliamentary career. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1406	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, honourable Ministers Mali, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is a great honor to speak today on behalf of our people from the southern Serbian province, who, in previous elections, gave the highest support in the entire country to President Aleksandr Vukic and his fight for the preservation and survival of our people in KIM. But not only did the Serbian people support this policy, but our brothers Goranci and Bosniaks, who share the same fate with us. Today, we are discussing a set of financial laws that are the continuation of the programme for an even better and stronger Serbia, for Serbia, which will be the best, not only in the region, but in Europe as a whole. This set of laws is part of a government programme that monitors next year's budget, which is actually a budget of continuity and continued economic growth of our country. Everything the government has set for itself is just a serious programme, necessary for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live better, better quality, proud of their country and their life, to feel safe and to know that their children will live in peace and prosperity tomorrow. These are not easy tasks, and therefore we need to be more than ever to be unique and all to make our contribution and maximum, so that everything planned by the next year's budget is realized. The conditions resulting from the outbreak of the co-virus we've all been living in and working for the past nine months and we don't know how long it's gonna last are "forse mayura" and that's not something we can change, but we can influence them. And in the previous period, the government has shown great responsibility in the emerging circumstances, and therefore many lives have been preserved, but the health system and economy as well as society in general are preserved. This would not have been possible if the largest investment cycle in the health system had not been started in the past few decades, if no new clinical centres had been built, restored health centres, hospitals, health homes, acquired new medical equipment, there had been no investment in staff through the reception of new doctors and healthcare professionals and no increase in earnings for all in health care, and this increase will continue next year. That was the condition that Serbia would not fall on its knees and go back to where it was eight years ago. Just thanks to the selfless struggle, strategic thinking and long-term planning of President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is ready to welcome this monster that has broken a more powerful country than ours. It is very important and commendable that this budget proposal continues with significant investment in our health system, including our southern province. It is therefore important that all of us as citizens contribute to this fight, by acting responsibly and by sticking to all those measures that are recommended as prevention. I want to thank all the health workers for fighting and sacrificing that they have shown in the previous months, but also to show them support for what they are doing today and for waiting for them in the coming period, since I share my daily life with a healthcare worker, and I have many for my friends. I would also like to thank Minister Loncar, who has conducted the health system of the Republic of Serbia heroically and most responsibly in times of emergency, as he is doing today. That's why fighting the covid virus is contitio son of quo non. In the next period, we are awaiting a continuation of the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, and we need the broadest social consensus and consensus there, in order to preserve our national and national interests as one in this matter. Enough to say that the Serb and other non-Albanian people in KIM are waiting seven and a half years or 2,792 days for the establishment of a Serb municipality community, the only commitment the government in Pristina has made to meet the Brussels Agreement. This one fact in the sea of problems suggests how difficult it is to find a compromise solution and to exercise the rights of the non-Albanian people in KIM. President Vukic is someone who has done most for the Serb people in KIM, which shows the huge support he has on Cosmet. There were no statesmen in our recent history who knew every place, village, every part of Cosmet, as Alexander Vukic knows. No one has been with their people in Kosovo and Metohija more than Alexander Vukic, and that was when it was the hardest. No government has ever been present on the ground in Cosmet as the previous government. The KIM office, run by Marko Djuric for more than six years, has brought faith back to the Serbian people for a safer future and has made it easier with its almost daily presence on the ground to survive and stay on our people's hearths, as it does today, headed by Director Petar Petkovic. It is also important that our citizens in KIM know that with this budget the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the KIM Office, will continue to implement the largest investment cycle in the last few decades. I will remind you that the implementation of projects is totaling more than 160m euros. For the sake of informing our citizens, as far as it has been done on KIM since the arrival of SNS to power, I would point out as significant some of the major projects and investments in the period from 2014 to October this year: 226 individual housing facilities have been built for the needs of the returnees of internally displaced and socially endangered persons; in the same purpose 642 housing units were built, or 40 buildings, with the security and equipment of the site for construction; a large health-recreative complex Rajska Banja in Banjska, i.e. an annex; aid was provided in construction material for 1,602 households; on behalf of the implementation of development infrastructure projects in our southern province in this period was invested in the reconstruction and asphalt of new roads, bridges, overpasses, production halls, sports facilities, plumbing, sewers, sewers, management of dumps, public parks, etc. Furthermore, more than three thousand agricultural households have been supported through the purchase of agricultural machinery, the purchase of seedlings, the construction of agricultural facilities, the purchase of cattle throats, and over 20 large capital farms. A regional water pipeline project for the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečan and Zubin Potok has been completed and nearly two decades later. I have to point this out because few people in this country know that we in Kosovo Mitrovica and Zvečana have had to buy water tanks and pumps in order to live normally. The project "Sunčana Valley" is being completed for housing between 1,200 and 1,500 persons, where it is in the final phase of the construction of 135 residential buildings with a total of 355 residential units and accompanying facilities, schools, churches, kindergartens, markets and sports grounds. Significant funds have also been allocated in the area of protection of cultural heritage, culture and assistance of the SPC. Within six years, projects related to the work and survival of 37 monasteries and churches have been funded, the smooth functioning of folk cuisines and the purchase of land, but is also invested in the project in the area of culture. A number of projects have been implemented in education for reconstruction, construction and equipment of many preschool, school, secondary and higher education institutions. Health facilities have been equipped throughout Kosovo and Metohija, but have also been trained for the first time by some such as the Pasjan hospital, which was opened by President Aleksandar Vukic himself, as well as new laboratories for the PCR test in Kosovo Mitrovica. A significant number of healthcare workers has been received, thus strengthening and ensuring a system of our health care. The draft budget we discussed yesterday and in 2021 continues the investment cycle in Kosovo and Metohija with more capital and other projects in all areas, which will greatly improve the quality of citizens in our southern Serbian province. This budget continues with regular pay allocations for all employees in Kosovo and Metohija in the public sector, which will be increased as before, as will all other employees in the Republic of Serbia. This budget continues to accelerate reforms that will circle the establishment of a stronger and more reliable system, a prerequisite for further economic growth in our economy. This is understood by those who come from the economy, and I spent almost two decades alone right in the economy. I hope that it will be possible to reach a compromise solution on Kosovo and Metohija as a result of the agreement between the two sides, but unfortunately it is not only up to us, but also on the other side which, as a sign of readiness, needs to fulfil previous commitments, i.e. to establish a Community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. The dialogue has no alternative. Without dialogue, there is only room for conflict, and conflict is nothing but a lost battle for both sides. As evidence of this claim, it is also a fact that since the signing of the Brussels Agreement there has been no more serious conflict in Cosmet. If dialogue was not launched, there would be no need for peace for Serbia to be consolidated, severe fiscal reforms are implemented and the largest investment cycle has started in the past few decades. Not to mention that none of the tens of the world's major companies would come to Serbia to create thousands and thousands of new jobs. With full support for the proposed set of financial laws and for the 2021 budget, I will be proud to give my vote on behalf of the people of Kosovo and the Metohija for the continuity of everything that has been done in the past, more than six years, and what has been planned for the realisation of these laws. Just thanks to Alexander Vukic today, our people in Kosovo and Metohija have faith in the safe future and the future of their children. And therefore, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, as long as we hear the crying of our newborns at maternity sites in Kosovo, Mitrovica and Pasjan, will be both Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1407	Thank you. Next is counterpart Natasa Ljubisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1408	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Minister, the honourable members of the government, the honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us with a bill on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, which is part of a set of budget laws for 2021. Part of this bill refers to the abolition of employment control. Employment control has been introduced, I will remind you, at the end of 2013. This is among other things one of the measures implemented to restore the economy, and in fact that the state would have control over overall public sector employment. By abolishing employment control, it will be in effect from 1 January 2021 until 31 December 2023. Also, in addition to having implemented the necessary difficult reforms in 2014 when President Aleksandar Vukic was prime minister, we implemented fiscal consolidation, we reduced salaries and pensions, which resulted in the result that for the last four years we have a surplus in the budget that hasn't happened long ago. Despite the biggest crisis that has affected our country, as has affected the whole world with this Covid 19 pandemic, our country has shown that it is stable and strong by having the smallest GDP decline in Europe. The International Monetary Fund and the European Commission also say. The 2021 projections are 6% of GDP growth. When we talk about aid in the pandemic that the state has sent to both the economy and the population, we can say that our country has come out with large scales and a package of 700,000 billion dinars, or six billion euros. That's about 12.7% of GDP. Rarely any country has come out with such strong and strong measures. Let's remember that in April, we raised 10% of our earnings to those same healthcare workers, in fact we gave every employee in the health sector 10,000 dinars, we paid 100 euros to every adult citizen who wanted it, of course. We've paid 4,000 dinars to each pensioner one-off, we'll pay another 5,000 dinars to each pensioner one-off. We've paid three minimum earnings to every private sector employee. In the next few days, the state will come out with a package of measures to help the tourism sector, and as far as this is concerned, this is only part of the measures the state has implemented to show seriousness and responsibility to all citizens, as well as to the entire economy. In addition to the crisis, we managed to build 350km of highways. We built two Kovid hospitals on record short notice. We built a new KC facility in Nis, reconstructing Serbia's KC in Belgrade. We have a plan to reconstruct the KC Vojvodina. It's huge projects. The budget provides for a budget of 2021 to increase pensions by 5.9% from January 1st 2021. We have a minimum profit increase of 6.6%. We have an increase in health care employees' earnings of 5%. We will also have an increase in the other public sector of 3.5%, while from 1 April there will be 1.5% more in total and 5% for them. Besides, soldiers will have an extra 10% increase. Now that I'm here with a soldier, I have to look back at today's front pages of printed media that are close to the opposition, where in one title, it's exactly the kind of pay increase for soldiers, where they say, "Soldiers got more than health workers. "I was glad to read that the soldiers had received more, in the sense that anyone in this country had received more than anyone, because in the past regime we could only know which of whom was less and who was left behind. The only one who hasn't stayed in the downfall has not stayed in the downfall of Dragan Gilas, who, after his rule and his regime, has remained richer by 619m euros, his brother for 35 apartments and we probably still have a longer list that will be unwinding in the coming days. As for minimum earnings, let's remind ourselves that in 2012, we had a minimum of 15,000 dinars. In 2021, on January 1st, the minimum will be 32,000 dinars, in fact more than 32,000 dinars. As for inflation, the seventh year in a row our inflation is low, we keep stable inflation at 1.5%. We have a strong and stable dinar today. When it comes to public debt, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has not crossed 60% in the next budget nor in the next budget, the one there in 2022. As for the unemployment rate, it's moving on record-low today. I'll remind you when the SNS came to power, the unemployment rate was 27%. In 2020, at the beginning of 2020, the unemployment rate was slightly lower than 9.4%. When we say that, then we can say that in the Covid crisis we had a reduction in the unemployment rate. When everyone fired their workers, when we were able to see mass layoffs across Europe amid the crisis, our country achieved the lowest unemployment rate of 7.3%. Historically, the lowest unemployment rate. Let's remember that it was during the time of government, former government, former regime, we had half a million people unemployed. We had 130,000 companies that were closed, we had a false promise of 1,000 euros, we had over-indebted debt at the maximum level. Let's remember the "Vacine" affair, which may now be convenient to mention, the former regime seems to have forgotten that during his term, so to speak, it was also a pandemic of swine flu. How did they react to that? In what way? By accidentally spending the funds of Serbian citizens to obtain vaccines, they have spent, therefore, purposelessly spent money and ultimately did nothing with these vaccines. Today these same people are advocating a story that the vaccines the state is getting are bad, unverified. The only thing the state is working with President Alexander Vukic is that from the moment the first case of the Covid 19 virus occurred in this country to the last moment our president, our government and our country are fighting to make as few people die. What did they do in this crisis? The only thing they did was invite people in the middle of a crisis to go out into the streets to have protests, to gather around, to break curfew. It's their contribution to this covid crisis. The 2021 budget forecasts 330 billion dinars in capital projects. The most allocated funds so far in capital projects. That's what my colleagues told me not to repeat myself. There are, among other things, the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, the construction of the Belgrade subway, the completion of the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway, the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the highway Preljina – Požega and the rest of what we have already stated. We are renewing the infrastructure throughout Serbia, which is what we will show in the next period and because we are planning to get more than 60 municipalities to get new water and sewerage. So we're thinking about every local self-government, not just the larger centers. With additional investment in health care, which I'm very pleased with, we're showing how important this really is to us. In the 2021 budget, we have allocated funds for 22 healthcare institutions, for the reconstruction of 22 healthcare institutions in Serbia. Despite the biggest crisis ever, we managed to attract 60% of investment in the entire Western Balkans. In our country, 1.9 billion euros were added. We have shown that we are a reliable partner to both citizens and investors. In addition to capital projects for 2021, we have also identified funds to continue modernising and equipping the military and police, which will contribute to an even higher level of security for our country. At the time of the former Serbian Army regime systematically destroyed, it was led by people whose only intention it was. I'll remind you that at the time of the DS, the Serbian Army had one single plane that they weren't sure it could take off. Today, the Serbian Army has 14 planes, new weapons, new equipment. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to see the introduction of new tanks that are the most modern in this part of Europe. During the former regime, tanks and weapons served as old iron for melting and selling a kilo. The army and the police were on the verge of collapse. The arrival of Alexander Vukic and the SNS military and police are modernized, equipped and ready to respond to every security risk that lies ahead of them. On several occasions, police had a salary increase, invested in new uniforms, equipment, vehicles, buildings. Today, police reached a level that she could only dream of during the former regime. I'll remind you that the police didn't have any summer or winter uniforms. They had one that they wore and summer and winter, that they didn't have any, they had one boot, they didn't have summer and winter shoes. They had a car that traveled hundreds of thousands of miles — today they have a new fleet. They had lower wages than it is worthy that the man who serves in this country had. As we can see in this draft budget, empowerment and military and police will continue for the sake of the country's overall security. As soon as the country is safe there are new investments and new jobs. I would also like to refer to the fact that we have never established stronger and never better co-operation with Republika Srpska by arriving with SNS and Alexander Vukic. The Serbian people on the other side of Drina can finally rely on the country of origin. We've opened new kindergartens, new schools. We're building bridges that connect us. We can see from the budget proposal for 2021 that funds have been allocated for the construction of the Trebinj airport and the construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, which will further connect our two peoples and our businesses. Serbia has managed to build hospitals, highways, factories and create jobs for thousands of workers in this short time and restore the identity of the winning people. Budget for 2021, except it's a developmental one, that's the budget of the future. When the whole world was hit by a crisis of unprecedented proportions, a small Serbia with a wise and determined policy managed to preserve the state register, while the economy and the population created an opportunity for a better life and better functioning and that I ordered years to invest even more in projects of great importance for our country's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1409	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Nevena Veinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1410	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. As my colleagues have already stated, the two most important amendments to this law are. The first concerns the increase in public sector wages, as well as healthcare workers, and the second concerns the abolition of employment control in Serbia since 2013. As of 1 January next year, we can expect that public sector employment will be made possible without prior consent, i.e. the Government of Serbia's permission, in principle that up to 70% of those whose employment relationship ended on any basis in the previous calendar year will be employed in the current calendar year. The fact that we have the space to raise wages and that we can lift employment control has led us to the difficult economic reforms our country has implemented in the previous period, such as the fiscal consolidation measures, and that is why today we can also talk about the increase in wages, and the increase in pensions and the better living standards. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system is certainly an integral part of the set of budget laws, so I can't look back on yesterday's debate, but also on the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. I must point out that the crown has indeed struck a heavy blow not only to our country but to the whole world, but that our government has indeed fought the lion's struggle that the consequences of the crown have left behind and on the health of the people, but also to the economy that it rescinds. A really huge effort has been made to provide adequate health care to all the citizens of our country, so in a very short time, enough respirators have been obtained, enough protective masks, sufficient amounts of disinfectants, as well as other medical equipment, and in just four months, we have built two covid hospitals, one in Kruševec, and the other in Batajnica, and the hospital in Batajnica just a few days ago received the first patients. On the other hand, the government has made a huge effort to preserve our country's economic stability, and that the government has done a really good job is saying that Serbia had the lowest GDP decline in Europe in 2020. These are indeed results that say how responsible our policy is and how stable Serbia is. Despite the pandemic that hit us with the budget for next year, 330 billion dinars in capital investments in our country. For Serbian citizens, this means that we will continue to build both highways, schools and kindergartens, that we will continue to reconstruct both health homes and hospitals and clinical centres, or that we will simply fulfill everything we promised Serbian citizens in the elections this year. But this means that we will continue to implement the "Serbia 2025" programme, which is certainly of great importance in order for our country to go the right way. What must be stressed is that Serbia is developing absolutely evenly. That means there's no so-called. Belgradeization, but that every city and every municipality is invested fully evenly and that all citizens of our country are cared for. I come from Subotica, and I think my city is a great example of how this good co-operation of all three levels of government and local and regional and republican gives exceptional results, and these results have the greatest benefit of the citizens of the Republic. The budget for next year planned to finance five capital investments in my city, and I must mention that all these investments are from different areas. Thanks to the SNS in my town, there's been a lot of work done. Projects have been done that have been waiting for their realization, not for years but decades, when I say for decades, I think we're the famous ypsilon arm that we finally finished last year waiting for 29 years. Unfortunately, the situation isn't with all the projects that we've been left in the amanet of the former regime, so it's still under construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. The National Theatre building was collapsed long ago in 2007 when senior DS officials performed important state functions, such as when Mr Dragan Gilas served as Minister for the National Investment Plan in the then government. However, since the budget ran out of money to end capital investments, since, of course, the top priority of the government at the time was to fill their pockets, then the ruins of the National Theatre's buildings adorned the centre of my city for a decade, and how successful Dragan Gilas really was in filling his pockets just to find out and the bench is still unwinding, which means that he has 619m euros in his pocket and has allowed his close associates, but also relatives, to have more than 30 properties in Belgrade's strict centre worth more than 25m euros. Now, these are the successes of Mr. Dragan Gilas and the former government, but I will return to the successes of the SNS and what is being done in my city right now. The budget for next year has allocated 300 million dinars for the eighth phase of the reconstruction of the National Theatre building and I hope that this dynamic will bring this project, which we have been waiting for for over a decade, to end. On the other hand, I have to say that Subotica is a city in the north of our country, a town located on the border with Hungary and that we cultivate extremely good relations with our neighbours, that we are trying to be a city that cultivates both multiethnicity and multiculturality, and that is precisely why strengthening Serbia and Hungary's relationship is of great importance, and that is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers, as well as the Ministry of Finance, because we have 40 billion dinars for modernising the Subotic-Segedin railway for the next year. It is a project that is of great importance for Subotica, but of course also for Segedin because it will allow faster flow of people, goods and capital and allow any further strengthening of relations with our northern neighbours. How much President Aleksandar Vukic cares about all citizens of the Republic of Serbia may best say that he cares from the youngest to the oldest. I would refer first of all to children because in my city, reconstruction of homes for children is being distracted in the development of “Kravka”, which is an institution of social protection intended exclusively for children distracted by the development of up to 26 years, which is the only institution in Vojvodina and in which years has not been invested. Kolevka provides social protection for more than 160 children, 356 days a year, 24 hours a day and finally deserves to receive a new home accommodation building and a gym and swimming pool. The government of the Republic of Serbia stands out about 800m dinars for the 2021 budget investment. On the other hand, we haven't forgotten our oldest, so the reconstruction of two objects of the gerontological center in Subotica is under way. It is an investment worth 900 million dinars, in order to allow better standards for life as well as for the work of those who live in the gerontological centre. For the very end of my presentation, I left the most important topic, and these are certainly health investments. We're witnessing that health investments are really impressive this year. However, this must continue in the following year, and the 2021 budget certainly makes it clear how much Serbia will invest in health care and all this is the reason why the health care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is currently an absolute priority, because human life is incomparable. As far as my city is concerned, I must say that we are expected to have really important investments in health care, because the most populated part of Subotica, which numbers more than 15,000 people, will finally get a home of health, which until today, and for this project, complete technical documentation has been completed, has been obtained absolutely all the permits in order to start this construction, and the budget for the following year has allocated 49 million dinars for the citizens of Subotica from that part of the city to have adequate primary health care. What they do most to me, but what will please the citizens of Subotica is the planned reconstruction of the Saturday General Hospital. It was presented by the 20-25 programme in Serbia, and I think it's a truly impressive investment because in a Saturday general hospital it hasn't been invested in for decades. The building was completely ruined and we had investments in 2019, so the Saturday hospital got a brand-new angel hall and a brand-new centre for out-of-body fertilization. But the rest of the building is really in bad shape and is really crying out for reconstruction. Subotic general hospitals are not of exceptional importance only to the citizens of Subotica. It's a secondary health care facility that gravitates nearly 200,000 people living in the territory of North-Baba County and that's why I think it's the most significant investment that awaits us in the coming period. Subotica has made an outstanding contribution to the development of our country, and this contribution has not been forgotten at all, but has been awarded in excellent co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, numerous investment and investment in capital projects that are significant for our country, but particularly important for our city, in order to continue to develop and to continue to contribute to the development of our country, and this can certainly be seen in the budget for the following year. That is why I believe that I have given more than enough reason to support the draft budget law in the voting day, but also other laws in the set of budget laws, along with the rest of my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1411	Thank you. Next up is MP Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1412	Dear Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, chairman, we have today's proposals for a law in the area of finance, which together with the draft budget for next year form a very important act of the government at the end of the calendar year itself. I would first and foremost highlight the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, whose amendments and amendments to the law will provide legal frameworks for continuing the increase of earnings in 2021. In addition to increasing earnings, the same bill will contribute to further relaxation of public sector employment measures introduced in 2013 as a temporary measure of fiscal consolidation, which I will also talk about a little later. The new legal solution will allow users of public funds to receive persons in working relationship, both indefinitely and indefinitely, up to 70% of the total number of persons who stopped working in the previous calendar year, during the period from January 1st 2021 until the end of 2023. This is exactly the kind of solution an additional signal to the labour market that despite the emerging situation and recession in the territory of all Europe has found ways and means to employ a new necessary chamber, although it has been controlled since 2013, to date, for the reasons of the disastrous moves of the former government. To these measures, we were forced, because representatives of the former authorities led us to condition the need for new personnel with controls, because we were at the time when we started fiscal consolidation measures. Let's take a period of rule of the former regime from 2009 to 2012 which I can freely say is the period of our economic sunflower that led us to the edge of the ambis. If we return in 2009 we will see that the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia was minus 2.7%, that in 2010, it would be minimally increased and then negative again in 2012. If we look at the unemployment rate, we will only see that we were much weaker than the countries of the region we are facing today, and all thanks to the responsible and serious policy of Alexander Vukic. So the unemployment rate in 2011 was 23%, so that in 2012, it would be incredible 23.9%, and today in 2020 it is something below 9%. In order to correct this catastrophic situation, we were unable to use a magic wand, but we had to face extremely difficult fiscal consolidation measures, whose burden was borne by all citizens, especially our pensioners. If we did good things then, it shows the results that Serbia today is the first country in Europe at the rate of economic growth and will take the first place in the next three years. That's not what we say, it's what the IMF says, and when the IMF says it, we know we're on the right track. With the draft bill on the budgetary system and the draft budget law for next year, we have created legal frameworks and we have planned money, both to increase wages and pensions, and for significant projects, and I would like the citizens of Serbia to pay particular attention. With the draft budget for next year, we allocated money to raise salaries and 5% for all healthcare workers who have suffered the greatest burden of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus, then 5% for all public sector employees, plus that 5% more 10% for certain categories of military employees. All pensioners will receive one-off aid of 5,000 dinars in a few days, and their pensions will be 5.9% higher than the previous year. The average salary in RS today is over 500 euros, another one of the promises we made at the start of implementing the heavy fiscal consolidation measures. We managed to ensure all of this when Europe is in recession and when even the most developed countries find ways to slow down their economic decline. When we talk about infrastructure, i.e. what has a significant impact on our GDP, the planned resources in 2021 are intended for the completion of the bypass around Belgrade, the construction of the Preljina-Požega highway that will connect Moravički and Zlatibor County, as well as the funds for the construction and revitalisation of railway infrastructure. All of this represents a continuation of a policy aimed at modernising our infrastructure, better linking all parts of the country and creating conditions for even greater attracting foreign direct investment to which we are leaders in the region. That we want a better connection with the region shows isolated funds for building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. Working in a good direction also shows results such as the Milos highway, corridors 10 and 11. With all these projects, we created a large construction site from Serbia, the site of our future. At the beginning of 2020, we met with a pandemic of the coronary virus that has brought new challenges before us, and one of the most significant challenges is to protect the lives and health of our fellow citizens. In this area, we've encountered huge problems, and we've started building this system from scratch. We have built a brand-new Nis Clinical Center, reconstructing the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre. The construction of the Cardiovascular Hospital “Dedinje 2” is under way. For a little less than 120 days, we built a whole new hospital in Batajnica and a whole new hospital in Kruševec. We will continue the reconstruction process both the hospital and the health homes throughout Serbia, because our lives and the health of citizens are the most important. It would not have been if we hadn't worked hard and responsiblely, if we hadn't opened new jobs, had we not started projects in all areas of social life, and had not had a stable political situation that put Serbia in a position of serious state and an even more serious partner compared to all relevant political and economic factors. Today, Serbia is the place where foreign investors come to invest, to build, to work without worry that they will wait indefinitely for a construction permit or that their investments will be questioned because of a unstable political situation, because we want to remain regional leaders in terms of attracting foreign direct investment, that our citizens have higher salaries and pensions from year to year and reach the objective and project "Serbia 2025", which is a salary of 900 euros and pensions for each of our pensioners of 440 euros. We never promised what we couldn't fulfill and we never used demagogue and empty promises, because we always had a plan and a goal, and it took courage, determination and work. In the end, citizens need to know we won't stop there. We will not stop, because it is our obligation to build more every day, even more diligently for our children, for all of us, because our future is Serbia, and we do not have another Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1413	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1414	Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Ministers with Associates, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I come from the far east of Serbia, from the municipality of Negotin known for our greatest composer, Stevan Stojanović Mokranjc, Hajduk Velja Petrovic, Djordž Stanojevic and, of course, for good wine. I am honored to be able for the first time to address myself from a congregation speaker and also a great responsibility for contributing to the work of the highest legislative body. I will also discuss the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, i.e. the reasons for the adoption of the law. In the coming period, economic and fiscal policies will depend on the development of the pandemic and the success in the fight against it. The objectives are aimed at maintaining fiscal stability and reducing public debt participation in GDP. The fiscal framework envisions a reduction in the country's deficit to 1% of GDP by 2023 and a decline in public debt participation to 56% of GDP. Thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures in the previous period, a space was created that allowed the package of measures in the fight against the effects of the pandemic crisis during 2020. This is not expected to affect the pandemic next year, but certain reserves will be provided in the event of a deterioration in economic movements. The fiscal space will be used in 2021 to increase capital investments, further investment in the health system, increase pensions and wages in the public sector. All these measures and their fiscal implications are designed to avoid jeopardising the stability of public finances and the pace of public debt cuts. Also, to maintain the standard of living of our citizens and to help economic development, but also to ensure the flexibility of the reaction to possible new impactes of the crisis. As for the 2021 budget, the 2021 budget proposal relies on two main pillars. One is raising citizens' standards to make the average salary 900 euros by 2025 and the average pension is 440 euros. The second is the increase in capital investment and the achievement of projected growth of 6%. The budget includes a 5.9% pension increase, from January 1st 2021, as well as an increase in the minimum labour price of 6.6%. For healthcare workers from January 1st 2021, salaries will be increased by 5%, while for others in the public sector 3.5% and from April of the month by 1.5%. Capital investments in the 2021 budget proposal amount to 330.6 billion dinars, which is 5.5% of the budget. In this way, as many countries as possible have invested in public infrastructure and capital investment. This encourages private investors more to invest. Our unemployment rate is 7.3% and it's at a historic minimum. Let's just remember that in 2012, the unemployment rate was 25.9%. We keep macroeconomic stability under control, of course, with the stability of internal and external policy, with all the efforts of our President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his sincere struggle for the further development of our country, we move even stronger and more decisively towards new victories and we are building together a strong and economically strong country for the future of our children. I also have to point out this and say that it took Dragan Gilas a long time ago to learn that citizens' trust is gained by honest work, by smart political moves, which he neither knows nor knows. In this battle that awaits all of us, we must stick to the six basic goals of the new government. The first thing is to preserve the lives and health of our country's citizens and to strengthen the health system. We've shown that in action so far in the fight against the world's epidemic of coronary viruses with timely measures. The Republic of Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandar Vucic, has acquired over 1,000 new respirators, the most modern laboratory in Europe has been opened, the Nis Clinical Centre has been built, it has been reconstructed in just 14 days by a complete VMC of Karaburma, the Clinical Centre of Serbia ends, all health workers earning 10%. A few days ago, a Kovid hospital in Batajnica was opened, which was built within a record period of four months, at the right moment, with 1,500 new health workers, and by December 20th there will be a staff of hospitals in Kruševec, with new 900 healthcare workers. But I have to point out that within the framework of the 2025 Programme, it will be fully reconstructed and a health center in Negotin. Further growth in our economy in addition to the 5.1 billion euros allocated for a package of measures that mitigated the impact on the economy was introduced by a moratorium on the repayment of the loan and lease war, numerous liquidity and trade capital loans were granted, a guarantee scheme was created to support the economy, in the context of the crisis due to the crown of the virus, the payment of contributions and taxes for the private sector during the duration of the state of emergency, direct cash aid in the form of one-off payment of 100 euros to each full-year citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that the Municipality of Negotin Plan 2025 provides for the construction of an industrial and chemical park in Prahovo, which will further create conditions for employment so that young people do not leave town, and the current students return as finished students and continue to live and work where they came from. On this occasion, I would like to thank the prime minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, for announcing in her exposé a chemical-industry park in Praho's vicinity of Negotina that this area will be of paramount importance. We'll keep young people in Negotina and the Borski district. Currently, about 1,000 workers work in this chemical industry. It's supposed to work twice as hard, up to 2,000 workers. A great importance for the Municipality of Negotin will also have the end of the section of the Negotin-Zaječar road, which began last year, as well as a reconstruction of the railway that is decades old. Just to point out that the realisation of a very important project for this region is in progress in raising tourism potential, which is a project for reconstruction of Rajačski i Rogljevske pupnica and infrastructure works, plumbing, sewers and electrification. I especially point out that Rajačka and Roglevska pubs are located on the preliminary UNESCO ranking of the World Heritage List. In this way we will raise the tourist potential of our region, and thus contribute to the resuscitation of the village. I am pleased to say that the construction and construction of a wastewater treatment plant will be done in Negotin municipality, and we are also doing the irrigation of the Negotin String and, of course, the process of cohesion that takes place years back very successfully. In the end, I would like to thank President Alexander Vukic for visiting Negotin and Rogljevska pub in 2019 and giving us full support for all projects. Not to be too long, I just want to say that with great pleasure I will support this developmental and increased budget for 2021, and all other bill proposals, which I call upon my colleagues to do the same. Long live Negotin, lived Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1415	Thank you. National MP Milica Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1416	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Today we have a set of laws that are attached to the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021. As we had the opportunity to see from the final account for 2019, a really huge number of projects and a significant surplus that has positively affected the standard of living of all our citizens were done in our country during that period. The 2021 Serbian Republic budget was also projected in the same direction. I can freely say it's about one development budget. Why is it important to stress that this is about the development budget? Because when some others ruled our country, their government brought a budget driven solely by personal interests harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and throughout our economy. The increase in wages and pensions has been financed from foreign loans that were taken at an interest rate of 8%, which both the state and citizens of Serbia are returning today. We in our 2021 budget also have a projected salary and pension increase, but exclusively from surpluses achieved in the previous period. It's a huge difference when you're funding a salary increase and pension from foreign loans, and you're burdening future generations like the previous government did, and you're doing it out of the savings that the state managed to achieve thanks to its responsible policy that led in the previous period. We are not taking foreign loans today to preserve macroeconomic stability, we are not selling Serbia's assets today to pay salaries and pensions. Thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures proposed by Alexander Vukic, the Prime Minister of our country was able to recover public finances and recover our entire economy. What would have happened if we hadn't done it? Would we have new schools, new hospitals, new roads, if we could raise wages and pensions? To deal with all these consequences that the coronary virus carries with it. There is a key difference between us and the former regime parties that led this Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, which has left hundreds of businesses shut down, hundreds of thousands of citizens out of work. Responsibility is the key word between us and them, as well as the ability and willingness of this government to do everything best for the citizens of our country, whether they come from the village or from the city center. That is why this budget for 2021, as well as this budget system law, which has been on the agenda since 1 January, envisions raising pensions by 5.9%, increasing the minimum labour price by 6.6%, and also increasing salaries for those working in health care by 5%. Also, since January 1st, when we adopt today, i.e. Tomorrow this bill on the budgetary system will no longer wait for the green light from the government for public sector employment. So, at the moment when you've got job layoffs all over the world, factory closures, when everyone's panicking from Kovida-19, and I'm not even saying that it's easy for us to get paid, pensions, minimum labour prices, public sector pay increases, we also separate the maximum capital budget. The plan is for the next year for capital investment to be invested never more money, as much as 330 billion dinars. Only some of these investments are the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the highway of Požega – Preljina, the construction of numerous industrial parks, high speed railways, as well as numerous other fast traffic stations. The new road of Vožd Karadjordje, which will connect Šumadija and the specific municipality from which I come, the Raca municipality, with eastern Serbia in 2021, will be built, and we expect to build that road as early as 2022. You know, it's a huge success when the only debt to the 2021 budget by the Fiscal Council and by the opposition is to increase wages and pensions, and from real sources of funding. When someone has results like this behind them, as our President Alexander Vukic has, and when you have a development budget behind you, even a higher force cannot help these boycotters convince our citizens that their coming to power life in Serbia would be better and more perspective. Only some of the obvious evidence of this is the average minimum earnings of 15,000 dinars in 2012, and these today amount to over 32,000 dinars, not to mention numerous newly opened factories, as well as kilometers of newly built roads. That is why, with all the efforts of President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as their sincere struggle for the further smooth development of our country in all fields, we will move even more strongly, more decisively towards new victories and together build a stronger and stronger economic state for the future of all our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1417	Thank you. The word has been last reported on the list of MPs, MP Ana Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1418	The respected chairman, respected Prime Ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the budget system provides for an increase in salaries for healthcare workers, for employees in the military, as well as for public sector employees. Salary growth and pension is one of the priorities of the 2021 budget. In addition, large investments in health care, new hospitals and record capital investments. The budget for 2021 is a developmental one, facing investment and, most importantly, towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia and improving their standard of living. Serbia has been building and strengthening the health system for years and because of the responsible policy of President Aleksandar Vukic and the citizens who supported the reforms, we have managed to welcome the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Over the past period, the state has allocated huge resources to the health system, for the reconstruction of hospitals, clinical centres throughout the country, for the construction of two new hospitals, one of which will be in Kruševec. This hospital is of paramount importance not only to the citizens of Kruševac, but to the entire Rasinski district. At this point, it will help us beat the crown, and then the citizens of the Rasin County will have a brand newer and more modern hospital. Patients from Kruševac, Cicivac, Trstenik, the entire Rasin district will have treatment with the most modern medical equipment, and in addition the hospital will employ 900 workers. A modern city like Kruševac, and besides that of the business, cultural, health center of Rasin County, really needed a hospital like this, and we thank you for that. When it comes to capital projects, 330 billion dinars have been allocated and, as we can see, more money has been invested than usual. Serbia continues to build and reconstruct road infrastructure, connecting cities and municipalities with large capital investments. As someone who comes from the municipality of Cicevic, the municipalities through which the Moravski Corridor will pass, I would particularly refer to the importance of this project for the citizens of the municipality of Cicevic, so for the citizens of the Rasin district, the whole of central Serbia. This is Serbia's first digital corridor and will provide citizens with a better and more modern infrastructure, and will provide us with another industrial zone in the municipality of Cicevic and will set us up as the perfect place for future investors, a new factory, new jobs and the remaining youth not only in the municipality from which I come, but in this part of Serbia. As we can see, unlike Miroslav Aleksic, the man who sold his party and whose only capital project was Aqua Park, and at the moment when the people of Trestenik municipality did not have healthy drinking water, we can boast of serious capital projects. For years, we've been trying to find out where Alexic acquired his degree in economics. If we hear his statement saying that the public debt of Serbia in 2012 was 15 billion dinars, mixed dinars and dollars, we understand why we still haven't established it. While he was behind the crowdal malfeasance, as he sold to the party, his cheek, cashed in the NGO, he succeeded in raising his salary illegally during his time as President of the Triestenik Municipality. Work and concrete results remain behind us. Serbia is a politically stable country today, has a stable budget, wages and pensions are regular. The fiscal system is secure, the course of the dinar does not change, and most importantly, the citizens of investors feel security, believe the policies of Alexander Vukic, the price of work and concrete results, as well as clearly set goals for a better future for all of us. In the latest elections, citizens have made it clear that they have seen and recognised SNS policy and at the same time punished crime, corruption and the haughtiness of others. Given all these components of the 2021 budget, in voting day, I will support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-09-0.u1419	Thank you. Since there are no more elected MPs on the lists, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Prime Minister, do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on proposals for actions in the agenda, paragraphs two to six. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly will now be given to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in paragraphs 7 to 10 of the agenda. At the same time, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister. Since it's about changes in the membership of board members, in principle we've never discussed anything much, for formal reasons, I just want to point out, to remind you, that the total time is five hours. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I formally open a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the SPAS, the Proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjanski Hungarians, has also taken two other decisions on amendments to the decision on the selection of members and deputies of the members of the Committee. This is all about the submission of MPs' resignations, the appointment, or verification of the term of office of new Members. I ask if any of the promoters want a word, an MP, the head of a group of MPs? No, I don't. ) Since there are no reports of discussion, I am concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. At the end of today's work, I just want to remind you that we are continuing our session tomorrow. At 10:00 in the morning is the first item of the agenda - draft budget law, discussion in particular. The debate in detail on the group of laws we discussed today cannot begin until 18.10 tomorrow. After that, we will have a discussion in detail about the bill we discussed today. Since there are no amendments in this third group, there are no changes, we expect after that, after 6 p.m., that time to vote, that is, the day to vote, when we will vote on the adoption of the budget and all the other points of the agenda. I thank you again for your attention and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the halls, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 150 MPs are present in the hall, which means there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. As you know, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, it's time to look for information and explanations, based on article 287. Rules of Procedure. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for a notice or an explanation? (Yes) The word is Shaip Kamberi.
