ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69124	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 68 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69125	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, the health of the population is a very important social category, because only a healthy man can contribute to his family and society in general. For the health of the population, among other things, it is important to quality food and food structure. Serbia has completed a legislative framework in terms of food safety in recent years, and it is broadly in line with European standards. I think it's both production and transport. Legislative and sublegislative acts provide good grounds for improving the quality of the production of dairy and meat products, but there is still a gap in their implementation. We know that agricultural products are very often used in the production of illicit pesticides, that very often they do not respect the karenca, which, unfortunately, leads to the emergence of such products on the market, in markets without sufficient control. What should be commended is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have made great efforts to start the National Reference Laboratory for Milk Control over the past year, as well as laboratories for food control and fitness laboratories with a plant gene bank. These laboratories will be able to control milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, and even plant seed, samples of microtoxins, pesticides, heavy metals, veterinary medicinal products and other substances in products will be detected by special and accredited methods. What's particularly important is that there is an accredited method in the food quality control lab to control the raspberries to the presence of Norovirus. This control is particularly important for our raspberries, because the presence of Norovirus has just been a common problem and a major obstacle to the export of raspberries. On this occasion, I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I would ask the Minister of Health - does the Republic of Serbia have sufficient number of sanitary inspectors and the Minister of Agriculture and Trade - how do we control the quality and safety of the food we import and which is located on our market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69126	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69127	Good afternoon. I'm a little bit in the middle of asking this question before and now they're back to you. Finally, we are witnessing that during this previous period of the past few years, the big topic is the work on cooperative work on social promotion, on the stimulation of cooperatives for the needs of all our people living in the country and from the village, where we are also on the Committee on Agriculture, where Committee President Marijan Risticevic, together with all of us, has repeatedly talked about issues related specifically to cooperatives, where we have repeatedly called the Minister of Cooperation, for regional development, to consider together with us certain directions of development in cooperative society, some suggestions, well-intentioned suggestions. We also asked a few questions on the Committee, and Committee President Marijan Rističević himself asked the question backwards, I think, more than a month ago to see, since we were really big advocates, there are a lot of resources allocated to cooperatives, the issues were directed to how many cooperatives were received in the previous few years, the parent numbers of these cooperatives, and where these cooperatives were from, or from, where they were from. Otherwise, I can remind all those present that cooperatives are the only way and only chance through the stimulation of cooperatives to develop agriculture. Our villages are old, mostly old, where we do not have a sufficient number of people who do certain activities specifically related to agricultural production, corn production, wheat production, whether it is livestock farming, whether it is warfare, whether it is the production of medicinal plants or something else, all of these goods, all these products must now be through cooperatives, in order to provide easier placement for these products. On the other hand, it's a fight against the gray economy. Another one of my questions, since we used to say that the Ministry of Economy, or the National Employment Service, will have the opportunity to through the cooperative programme to fund and help the directors of cooperative or authorised persons in cooperatives, professional people in cooperatives such as agricultural engineers, veterinarians, security guards in agricultural production, so that these people can be provided for up to two years’ pay and that these people in that community can, by their work tomorrow, improve the conditions to bring new knowledge, because we are witnessing how much knowledge so many properties. This is why it is important for the Ministry of Industry and the National Employment Service to provide the means for new cooperatives or existing cooperatives to be set up by professional people, professional staff and thus, tomorrow, to provide better conditions for work, better innovation and better quality and greater production in any segment of agricultural production. I think it's very important. On the other hand, and last time I spoke since the Association of Serbia is now very active with its cooperatives, the regional cooperative alliances, which is very active, tours cooperatives, helps in certain things, even advocates that certain things be done the way it should be, but most of their proposals turned out to be bad. In particular, the Association of South Serbia, it is a regional cooperative alliance, has some problems, where management was being shifted. The secretary of the Association of South Serbia, Anita, has already made certain remarks on the work. I even think that these certain objections, suggestions were delivered to the competent state authorities. I am interested – does the Association of Serbia have the arguments and possibilities that through its president, or his employees, it can affect regional cooperatives to choose their organs and does he have any part in making regional cooperative alliances even more active? I think that all of us here in the Serbian Parliament, all of us who do public work, should be much more active, to know in every respect whether the cooperatives that have been formed, who have received funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia... One more thing is very important to me because local self-government has a responsibility, because local self-government and the president of the municipalities sign... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... Consensus for the cooperative to get the funds. I ask for an answer – how many cooperatives have received funds, cooperative numbers and finally the Association of Serbia whether it participates in these things... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69128	Thank you. We understand. You've exceeded 20 seconds. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69129	Thank you. I received an answer from the Ministry of Trade on one of my parliamentary issues concerning this announced regulation on the ban on importing cars with inadequate engine standards, which has greatly upset citizens, because most, as is known, cars in Serbia are with Euro 3 and lower standards. The point is that in response to the Ministry of Trade, I do not enter into details, it is politely written and clearly not, that it is not in the process of preparing this regulation, but also that they are in charge of it only after consultation or the elements they receive from other ministries. So the regulation, the official answer, I asked, is that this regulation is not yet in the works, not that it is not saved, but is not yet in the process of making. I would therefore extend my question, i.e. to the Ministry of Environment and Transport and Finance, since these are all ministries that should be published and state their views regarding this possible ban regulation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: So, and environmentals are, one of them is both traffic and the Ministry of Finance -- whether it's in the plan of that regulation at all, or whether it was just a relift, a distraction of public attention, or waiting for the elections to pass, and then there since mid-year, as usually some unpleasant things move always after the election. My second and key question goes to the address of the KIM Office, which is, to be said, one of the few and few institutions that never respond, and in this regard I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, to remind his official, Mr Đurić, of the obligation to answer parliamentary questions. So, most institutions do, and as far as his statements on this establishment are concerned, i.e. the letter of intent on establishing an aircraft line between Pristina and Belgrade, where he first announced on the very day that such an agreement would, therefore, have been completely uninformed by the Serbian public, and then the day after the signing of the agreement, which also caused great attention in the region, and even in the world, if I may say so, he said it was just an economic arrangement. So, that doesn't even mean that political dialogue is being conducted between Belgrade and Pristina, or it's just an economic arrangement. You know, I have to ask what kind of economic arrangement it is if this arrangement welcomes personally, with its tweeted President of the United States, Donald Trump, if the NATO Secretary General's Pact is personally advertised on the occasion of this announcement, so it's not even an agreement, but rather a letter of intent that this line should be established, that it attends the signing of a National Security Advisor, the President of the United States and everyone downs, so, counselor, Special Envoy Grenner. So there were a lot of important participants there so that things could come to light under the story of a mere economic arrangement, taking what we said when we said the carrier was a German company, again some economic profit for us and there isn't. My question is for the Office, or for the Prime Minister if Mr. Djuric does not answer again - how is it possible that such an important thing goes under the radar of the public? If it's a good deal, then why isn't he talked about much more? Why are there no special shows, why there is no explanation why it is so good for the state of Serbia? And on the other hand, very indicative, that the leaders of the United States, the leaders of NATO alliances and, of course, everyone on KIM or so on. Kosovo's republics have found it appropriate to report to you, so it is hardly as favourable for the Serb side as it is trying to introduce itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69130	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69131	Thank you. I ask Minister Zlatibor Lončar - why is a one-year-old girl, Una Vukanac, of the Red Red, waiting nine months for the necessary therapy, because she suffers from spinal muscle atrophy? Since April last year, she has been in the intensive care department of a children's hospital in Novi Sad and has failed to enter a program of getting a cure that stops the progression of her illness. Since July 2018, this drug has been available in Serbia on the cost of the state through the Republic Health Insurance Fund and is now received by 28 patients in our country. The Union’s parents state that a meeting of the medical consulate, which approves of the use of this medicine, is constantly delayed for unknown reasons. I ask Minister Loncar – why? Una Lukanac is currently the only child with type 1 SMA in our country who does not receive treatment on the respirator. In November last year, when the consulate last met, it was said that Una was a candidate for medication, but her medical findings were old, so it was to be provided for a new one. That's what her parents did, and they sent everything that was needed from that medical file to Belgrade, but the agony with delays and excuses started again, and Una hasn't received any treatment in months, and her life hangs in the balance. I ask the Minister – what happens and when will Una finally get a cure that will somehow save her life in the future? The second question is I ask Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic and I ask him – is it possible that Serbia cannot produce quality wheat, why our flour is not good and why we have unquality seeds? Serbia more than doubled imports of bread and bakery products in 2019, with around 6,000 tonnes of fresh bread, pastries, toasts, etc. worth 6.8m euros. One year earlier, i.e. 2018, imports were worth 3.1m euros, with the most imports from Romania, Germany and Bulgaria. I don't know if our people know that mostly the bread they buy is hot, but that bread isn't baked in our country, but the tow truckers are getting frozen bread and then they're getting ready in our shops. From year to year, the wheat from our country is becoming less and less sown, mainly because of the price. Production costs are higher than couples can make. Last year, in 2019, the price was 18 dinars per kilogram and it is very little compared to work and compared to how much it is invested in the production of wheat. I ask Minister Nedimovic – why did the Serbian Government bring the Regulation on importing wheat without customs, at the request of the millers? How many foreign wheat will enter our country in 2020 and at what cost? Why isn't our wheat good? The import regulation will undoubtedly lower the price of domestic wheat, which the warlords were not satisfied with last year, and does the government think until the end of it to destroy our warlords? Will the Ministry help in 2020 and beyond our warriors to produce quality wheat to obtain quality seeds?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69132	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69133	Members of the SRS are in contact with citizens daily, people are coming to us in mass, still concerned about the rampage of public executioners across Serbia. The fact that you announced a few months ago that the situation would settle, that there would be less compensation, etc. It turned out to be an absolute public deception and that you only did it because we Serbian radicals submitted a new draft law on executive procedure and security and that we supported this proposal with more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens. It is these people who have given us signs of wonder, they say – how is it possible that Vukic and his officers from the EU listen to these anti-Serbian NGOs, which they apply through Belgrade and who is coming to give them tasks, and how is it that these anti-Serbian NGOs do not think of putting our bill, which has been supported by more than 100,000 citizens, who are unhappy with the situation with the perpetrators in the Republic of Serbia, on the agenda? What's going on lately, what people are informing us about? Now public utility companies and other state authorities have come into good communication with public executioners and are together robbing people. People who had some private stores, which they checked out four, five, six years ago now come to the solutions of public executioners, charge them for something, no one lives knows what, is that when it comes to the EPS engaged force? Yesterday we got information, say, that a woman had, opened the Agency that she closed exactly five years ago, all neatly finished and now the public contractor is asking her to charge 180,000 dinars on behalf of the company's emphasis on those previous years when she didn't even do that shop. Wrong accounts, it happens, and we have one fresh piece of information. The man "Telecomu" paid the family to Telecom on behalf of some of the remaining debts of about 32,000 dinars, and it reportedly went to the wrong account. "Telecom" says – we have nothing to do with it, it is in the jurisdiction of the perpetrator, and the perpetrator does not think to do anything to... They don't even want to accept that family's proof that they actually paid that $32,000 debt because the perpetrator has to charge his fee, the reward they call it. Here, we have a case, let's say, of a base debt of 4,400 dinars in the name of some three bills paid through the executioner, 18,200 dinars. The latest pearl is what happened to the Zdravkovic family, Ljubinki and Branislav in Leskovac. Aleksandra Antic, the executioner, was, imagine, wrong address. The debtor was their son who lives in the same house, but at another address, at the second home number. They came in nicely, Mrs. Ljubinka was alone in the house, she couldn't cope with this Alexandra Antić, she took away a lot of valuable things, she took away some Russian furniture, something that Alexandra Antic really couldn't even tell how much it was worth. This introduction is in question to the president of the National Assembly, why did the National Assembly not consider the SRS proposal, the draft law on executive procedure and security? Why does the National Assembly not want to hear more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Also, the question why Mrs Gojkovic did not submit this proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so let's see what the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is on this proposal and what the general relationship between the National Assembly, the parliamentary majority, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is general government in Serbia towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because ignoring more than 100,000 signatures of citizens is something that is not in line with democratic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69134	Thank you. Let me just ask the secretary general what's going on with your proposal. (The Faith of Radeta: Please, a written reply.) Yes, it will be written. Here, now I've got a more concrete explanation that the signatures are on the check, it's a procedure, to determine the exact number... (The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, throws without a microphone. I guess it's a little weird for me, too, but they say it's hand-to-hand. I don't even think that's an obstacle to sending it to the government and making it known about the proposal, and then seeing if the proposal, if it meets the initiative, is absolutely in agreement. Since you asked me what my position was, I am in favour of discussing your bill and seeing what all citizens of Serbia are not particularly satisfied with the work of the perpetrators and you heard my discussions when we talked about changes and additions. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am asking a question to an institution in a state that is hardly doing anything to make Serbian citizens feel safer, safer and to see that this institution is actually doing a job that needs to be done. It is the prosecutor's office in Serbia and prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac. I've asked her countless questions, so today I'm asking some questions again, there are some new ones, and that's what was done in the death threat case with Ivan Knezevic, the director of the famous "25". May" and attack Gabriel Kovacevic in Zemun? Both members and local SNS officials. The question is, are the heads of SNS officials and SNS members there just to get their heads off and are their heads less valuable than the head sitting in one part of the opposition gathered around the tycoon and criminal Dragan Gilas? Are these heads of these people, who are honestly, honestly and responsibly doing their job in local self-government, less valuable than those of those people and criminals who are around Dragan Gilas? That's what I'm asking Zagorka Dolovac. We would like Serbian citizens sometimes to see it, to know what that person looks like, to tell us if he's coming to his job at all, whether he's reading the questions we're asking her, whether he's doing his job, or if he's just raising his salary. How much longer does it take to repay his loan to Dragan Gilas, the DS, the Alliance for Serbia and others who chose it in due time? How much interest is there left to pay to Dragan Gilas and is that interest measured in the number of heads that should fall to members of the SNS? Is this measured in tweets to be written by Gilas, Marinika, Bosko and other psychopaths from the Alliance for Serbia? Is this measured by the number of threats to be directed to the death of the President of the Republic? Is that measured by the number of pipes that need to be placed on the mouth of someone from SNS? How long will the prosecution, Zagorka Dolovac, be quiet? As long as they say every threat - there are no elements, we will not act on it, there will be no investigation. How long does that go? How long will he be silent about what Marko Bastac did on Old Town Municipality? How long will he keep quiet that those bags he was putting on his best man and who knows who else he's gonna come up with to put those bags on? What kind of message is sent to society like that? Is it a message to society that we should be giving each other political debates about death threats, that they should break heads and nothing at all, no one will ever answer because the prosecutor has debts that need to be paid back to those who chose her in due time. Is that how you repay the citizens of Serbia? By making them feel insecure? By fearing for their lives when they support power, when they support people who are responsible for their work, who are working to make Serbia a better, more stable, safer life? As the election draws closer, I expect their madness to continue. The marines and her chickens, the hens, whatever, and the rest of them are going to freak out as the election date approaches. As soon as they know the date of the election, I expect that madness to culminate. What my colleague, Marijan Rističević, says, is a coke flyer. I don't know how many parties have changed anymore, and only someone's talking about some flyovers who knows where everything is. Serbia has survived various aggressors on the outside, but I fear that if such as Gilas, Bosko, Marinika and others were to get their hands on the tills and authorities again, Serbia would not survive it. Serbia, our message, is to survive both the coke and the marines, and the Boška, and as the top of the entire Thai criminal pyramid, and Dragan Gilas will survive, and not be occupied by thieves, criminals and tycoons, but Serbia will continue to develop led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and let it be asked Zagorka Dolovac whether this goes to her face and honour what it is doing to Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69136	Thank you. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milisav Petronijevic. We're going back to work. We move on to a search in detail on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. You have received amendments proposed by MEPs and the Committee on Culture and Information. You have received reports from the committees responsible, the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, MP of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69137	With this amendment, we wanted to formulate in another way what you predicted here. There's no big difference, but I guess we did it a little more comprehensively. We want to draw attention to this, and all these days through debate, we have made it an impression that in Serbia, and also in those who are government, I do not think specifically of you ministers, somehow not enough to treat culture in that legal sense, the broadest sense of the words of culture. You will agree culture is not just an exhibition, just some concerts, etc., there are far more important for national interests, much more important things to take account of within your ministry. Of course, that's why certain resources are needed, but we now live in Serbia, which you say we are in a phase of prosperity, and then no one can explain that there is not enough resources for such a thing anymore. A large number of our history giants have not yet been published together for many of them. I don't know if you know ministers, let's say in St. Mark's church there's a huge foundation of manuscripts, unpublished works that are so important to the state of Serbia that we can't stay deaf and blind to something like that. Our party's president, when discussing the budget last year, asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to print Peter Handke's collected works on behalf of gratitude. You said two days ago that you were going to do it, that you were already talking to the official messenger, and that's definitely something that's good. Good for a lot of reasons. Good because you understand that it is very important for Serbia to repay its friends in a certain way. And this is the way. On the other hand, it is important because you have shown that the minister who is ready to hear the voice of opposition MPs, when it comes to SRS MPs, is also being heard. We can, without any modesty, boast that our proposals are always state-of-the-art, always of general interest, and that we regret that all ministers have no such understanding as you have shown. Now, additional Minister, here's to distract you, you may have thought about it, but take care when you negotiate our friend Peter Handke's collected works to make it a Cyrillic letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69138	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69139	I thank the esteemed president. In the beginning, I will say that I will use the time of the president of the parliamentary group. I respect the SRS' proposal, respecting their political action as opposition political options, unlike other representatives of the opposition. They're always there to offer an alternative, to offer their proposals. Of course, it is on the representatives of the ministry and it is up to the Minister to define how acceptable these proposals are and how much they can be included in the law we are talking about. Mr. Minister, with the suggestion that you should consider another amendment colleague from the SRS, I would take advantage of today's opportunity, don't get me wrong, but somehow we rarely see each other here in parliament, and we have a chance to talk about other important issues as well. In addition to what we said in the opening statement that the SPS Parliament Club will support the legislative proposals we are talking about today and that we are having a discussion in particular, but you are, of course, next to culture, your area is also informing. I want to talk to you about something today, because I say we rarely have a chance to talk about it here in Parliament. First of all, I want to tell you that, unfortunately, I don't know how much you've met, but during yesterday, one part of the opposition is unfortunately once again here in parliament, in the assembly hall, it showed its true face, and a colleague of Serbia Filipovic told us about it and started the story. It is clear to us that there is their hatred for Alexander Vukic, for Ivica Dacic, but we are not clear that someone can hate their country and that they can hate their people. It is also clear to us that all the time they are trying to pose as opposition, although it is very difficult for them to do so. It is perfectly logical for us, as I have told my colleagues in the SRS to be an opposition to the ruling coalition, but it is not logical and natural for us to be an opposition to your country and it is not logical for us to be an opposition to your citizens. Again, during yesterday's day here from the Assembly Hall, and I will say later why it is important and why I quote it at the very beginning, is being questioned by the diplomatic activity of Serbia, led by Serbia's president and foreign minister, when it comes to withdrawing recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. It is a state project that has brought results, and now the question is whether the action should continue. I would like to remind, first of all, of the work of the public, of the project that brought results before diplomatic activity, of the unilateral activity of Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely no one asked us anything, 113 states have accepted the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and thanks to the diplomatic activity of Serbian President, Foreign Minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today the figure of 93 states within the UN Security Council. So Pristina's plan is down, Pristina needs 97, three countries are in some kind of fluid state of Egypt, the Dominican Republic and Peru, but it's not here and it's not here and it's not just numbers. The point is to succeed, to show that Serbia is part of the compromise, that without Serbia, there is no solution and that Serbia can finally look for something, unlike the period when we were just watching and when part by piece of territory was taken from Serbia. The goal of these insinuations that we could hear during yesterday's day from the Assembly Hall is certainly a compromise of this state project. We understand the West, insists that Serbia ceases diplomatic activity. We also hear from Pristina that it irritates them, that this is why there has been a delay in the dialogue, but we are not clear that Pacolli, Haradinija, Kurti have allies in Belgrade and that their voice is heard from the National Assembly of Serbia's Assembly, these statements as if coming from Pristina, from Albanian separatists and terrorists, and this is certainly something that our enemies will use in the period ahead, certainly something that will harm Serbia's national and state interests. We have not heard that they were so loud, and in 2007, when one-sided independence of Kosovo and Metohija was declared, and today they say whether it is in accordance with international law and whether it is ethically what it seems and what it is, when it comes to diplomatic activities. Why did I put this as an introduction to what I actually wanted to ask you? Before a certain period of time, Mr. Minister, I asked you a question, using my right as an MP, does the freedom of the media mean that every day we look at a new front page with the same message, a target drawn on the legitimately elected president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, until the goal that someone seems to want to achieve is achieved? Is this media freedom or media lynch? It is clear that each front page carries a certain message. Is this how someone openly wishes to liquidate the president? I got the answer. I'm grateful for your answer. Among other things, in the final part of the response, you said that the Ministry of Culture and Information seeks to propose an adequate regulatory framework in which the freedom of the media is achieved, but also protects society and individuals from spreading ideas of violence and hatred through media content and that the Ministry is always advertising and condemning such media content. What interests me specifically is whether and when we will finally have this legal framework, because definitely what the Ministry is advertising and what is advertised by each of us and what we want to participate in this joint struggle that this violent and violent behaviour cannot and should not be the basic norm of social behavior in Serbia is definitely not enough. What is it that we finally have to do and I said that we are clear about the hatred they have for Alexander Wolf and Hansel Dacic. But we don't understand when they're finally going to stop the threats that every day, and even today in one of the daily papers, they're sending editors, editors-in-chief and responsible editors of daily newspapers, TV owners, when they're going to stop both physical and verbal conflicts with journalists, and only because journalists have their own opinions. Journalists have the right to ask questions that they believe are important and no one can challenge them. It's up to politicians to answer that question or not to answer that question. Also, journalists must be free, they must be autonomous in decision-making. I don't know how much you know, we held a public debate here in parliament on political parties' representation during the election campaign. The public debate was attended by representatives of the political parties belonging to the authorities, representatives of the opposition, representatives of REM and we then said, as the SPS, that we seem to have one part of the opposition, I repeat, one part of the opposition, wants in Serbia to deal with the editorial media policy and that there is indeed enough of this media moaning in the media and that we have never, as a party, come from the the the thesis that if we are present in the media, the media scene and the media image is good, and if we are not present, the media scene is very bad. They wanted capitalism in 2000. I remind you, the Privatisation Strategy of the media was defined and done something after 2000. They wanted capitalism, they got capitalism, and where did they get the need to deal with editorial policy today? I'm particularly talking about private media. In 2009, we were part of the ruling coalition. Then we had amendments and additions to the Public Information Act. Even though we were part of the ruling coalition, we did not vote for these changes and additions, because we thought they were a blow to objective and professional journalism. So you can't ban the media from doing their job. They must be independent. Freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are the basic postulates of a democratic society, as Serbia today is. How and how one part of the opposition understands freedom of the media is their problem. But I ask you that we finally go to define this legislation, where we will allow journalists in Serbia to do their job. We're not mad. Here, a newspaper today announced that Wolf and Dacic patriotism can be put in a suitcase. There's absolutely no problem. About Vučić and Dacic's patriotism will tell citizens what they think in the next parliamentary elections. Those who fear the election are left with that boycott. It is a desperate and losing move that citizens also recognize and will evaluate in the right way. You know, when they appear in Brussels, we have accepted that we are talking with European parliamentarians and listening to their suggestions and suggestions, and there was absolutely no problem in showing willingness to create new frameworks when it comes to electoral conditions, but we have not expressed our willingness to talk to European parliamentarians in hotel lobbys, rather than to talk about where talks and lead are being held, in parliament. So we told the European parliamentarians - if you think elections are one of the key issues, electoral conditions in Serbia, for the European Parliament, although we suspect so, but if you think so, then when you organise debates on election conditions in Brussels, call the remaining political options. Don't call just one part of the opposition. Because then you'd hear what the relevant facts are, you'd hear the opposite argument. And not as it was then said in Brussels by one part of the opposition again, that it is crucial that the opposition also has equal access to the media. You know what? I have here the data concluded with December last year -- 135 pages of press clipping in the last six months, which deny that this part of the opposition is not represented in the Public Service. With each protest, RTS reported on all information shows. From a journalistic angle, according to European Parliamentarian Tanja Fajon, says "Is it a real story", that every week it is reported that there is nothing new. The demands are the same. If that protest had ten times as many citizens as it was in the previous period of time, you know very well, it's news. Everything else isn't news. Representatives of the opposition also participate in all debate shows. They are often called upon to the United Kingdom. You know, the United Kingdom on debate shows can't be part of those who weren't participants in the last election. So these are just some data and parameters that we would certainly have taken to Brussels if we had been invited to talk about it. But the request sent to you. I think that when you have a lack of political influence and a lack of political power, then there is the most primitive behavior, there is a vocabulary that has long gone beyond the limits of politics, because what we are hearing today, what we can do today and in the media, just today, to read, is not the essence of the existence of politics. It's something we all have to fight together. You know, and the private media are monitoring public opinion research. The private media also monitors the local elections and elections held during the previous period of time. And they know very well what is news and what is not. The fact that someone has 50% voter support, and someone's fighting for 5%, that's absolutely not our problem. We can't help them get to those percentages. But our application is addressed to you -- let us do everything we can, we are ready to help you, but let us do everything in yours and in our power that we no longer have this kind of threat to the press, that journalists can do their job freely, that if a debate show is organised on RTS, the RTS editor doesn't have to think about whether or not RTS will be blocked that night, whether someone with a motor saw or not will enter the newspaper "Informer" and the editor-in-chief of the daily list "Informer" will have threats and calls to the lynch, or the owner of Pink TV. Is it logical that a representative of a political party goes to a press conference and says yes, I promise you, if we have responsibilities, if we are power, we will shut down that television. It is only a request for you to finally see this legislation that will allow journalists to carry out their work without pressure objectively, professionally, independently.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69140	Thank you. Minister Vukosavljevic, has two minutes to answer your questions, and two minutes to Vervai Radeti.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69141	Here, first, let me give a brief reply to the honourable People's MP, Mrs. Vereca Radetti. So, of course it will be on Cyrillic, you are familiar with the activities of the Ministry of Culture and Information in this section regarding the protection of the Serbian traditional letter, i.e. the proposal for a measure of affirmation greater and more frequent use of Cyrillic in public space, so the answer to that question is certainly yes. As for this other more delicate question, and here I have, I'm free to say good news. The condition you described in the church of St. Mark, or part of the archive, is of great importance to our culture, actually belongs to the archive of SPC. This ministry has co-financed with certain financial resources, the construction of a depot located near the church in Zemun, so it's already this whole material that, this picture you sketched, is about a period of a year, and certainly deeper into the past. Meanwhile, a transfer of archives from the church of St. Mark in this newly built depot in Zemun, and with the participation of many of our experts in the field of archivism, so at this moment we are in the middle of a process, regulating this very unpleasant state, which has lasted for decades, and I believe that this process, when it comes to a concrete collection of archives and documents from the Church of St. Marka to be done within a certain time frame, which now cannot be precisely in front of everyone, and probably a year from now, but material preconditions have been created, space has been provided and experts have been hired in co-operation with the SPC. So, I think that thing will be resolved in a short time. That's about it. As for the honourable People's Parliament, Mr. Milicevic, your observations, as I would say, are precise, accurate, precise, clear. The answer to your question would consist of an essential part of your question that, at this point, the text of the media strategy was finally agreed and adopted, and our point of view was, and this was the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the changes and additions of the set of media laws would be approached after the adoption of the text of the media strategy. It's kind of logical to adopt a strategy first, to see what a country in a given space, which is a very important space, is a public information space, for which principles are advocated, for which values it also wants to affirm, and then that based on these media strategies, with little simplifications, is a kind of constitution for that area. I believe that in the next short time, a set of media laws will be able to regulate some of these issues, very delicate, to which you pointed out. The problem we are talking about now, regardless of which is not a specific topic of this session, but certainly it is an important social topic, in fact the answer to that is hidden in one assumption, which is that the overall behavior and morale of a society at a given historical moment, any society, at any historical moment, is based on approximately two assumptions or two postulates or rests on two pillars. One is a common understanding of moral values, ethics, principles of education, values of courts, etc., due to different circumstances, customs, traditions and degrees of development of one society or one community. The second pillar, which is a corrective pillar, is the application of the law, because the laws are the ones that need to correct in a slightly rougher way those who do not have a clear awareness of what freedom means. According to the old definitions that have been going on for a long time, whether, in practice developed societies, the right to freedom extends to the point at which the freedom of another begins. So freedom can't even be absolute freedom. Our freedom and freedom of the media and the freedom of each individual, including social groups, is limited by the limits of the freedom of others she touches. In other words, many of the phenomena that you have cited, which are worrying, are the use and use of hate speech, these are threats, these are incriminating without evidence. There's too much of that in our public space, and I fully agree with your assessment. All such things, of course, do not touch or touch to a lesser extent the Ministry of Culture and Information, which is responsible for creating a legal framework for the free functioning of the media. But when it comes to slanders, insults, threats, endangering personal security to related matters, they are, of course, in part, and must be at the work and provisions of the law, i.e. the application of other laws, such as the Criminal Act or the Law on Infringements, etc. In this connection, I agree with you, the energy of the entire society to work on both fields, and to affirm and empower one awareness of what the culture of speech is, what is the use, what is the abuse of the media and what is the use of some tools, to call it, conditional upon certain tools raising awareness of the importance of the media in modern society and the importance of the value of public spoken words. The process is more painful, more complex and slower, but yields results. On the other hand, I say, stricter application of the law depends on judicial practice, on the conduct of misdemeanor courts and on the conduct of regular courts, must be kept in mind that the freedom of the media should not be misused in the direction of threats of different kinds, the threat of physical security in other ways, the carrying out of false and incriminating accusations that could endanger one's reputation, of course without any evidence, and the threats being brought to the greatest number of cases. In other words, the whole society is at great challenge and it is simply a job that we all have to deal with at the top of our jurisdiction. It has to be a subject all the time, because we live in a spirit of time where media to a very important extent, come on, I feel free to say so, they also define individual consciousness, not only through information that stretches through the media stream, but also through the use of certain styles, certain dictionaries, etc. Therefore, we have before us tasks, in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in general, in front of the Ministry of Culture and Information, but also in front of other factors in the government and in front of the whole society, to respecting the freedom of public expression, respecting and respecting the principles of freedom of the media strongly insist on scruples and respecting the law in the context of freedom of use, or media freedom. I believe that, by doing so, the answer to your question in a set of media laws that will be passed after this adoption of the text media strategy will be created somewhat better conditions for some of these values and principles that I have now spoken of more strongly and better to the aphirm. But, on the other hand, I'm saying, it's not just that legal text that solves, like a ghost from a machine, is it, "deus ex makina," solves the thing in one complex area. Our media and reflexes are the mirror of our society in every way, both positive and negative. Therefore, I fully agree with you that the effort and full awareness of the entire society are needed. Of course, when the entire society is told the highest responsibility is borne by the government of one country for the implementation of the relevant policy and for the advocate of certain values. I believe that if this topic is constantly, strongly and precisely present in our public discourse, the efforts of the entire community and, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have a satisfactory shift in the coming period. It's kind of my optimism about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69142	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69143	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the way Mr Milicevic characterised and analysed certain phenomena on the Serbian political scene in recent days. He also mentioned these press conferences here in the National Assembly Hall and in this marine Tepic, which has been poisoning the public for weeks with the same, therefore, lies, with the same inventions. Sometimes I wonder – do these people have morals, do these people have cheeks, do these people have any credibility when they are able, like these marines mentioned, to lie so disgustingly, that it is blasphemy in such a way, because that lie, therefore, was discovered after a few minutes of being told lies, like the state raising marijuana on a military good Morovic, and then it turned out to be a coke stretch, etc? Then, after such an indignity, she allows herself to appear here in the hall of the National Assembly after a few days and continue to poison the public. I wonder sometimes, do these people have a shred of cheek? But I would add that this trend will continue. We have an announcement that there will be new press conferences today. This Bosko Obradovic will come, and that Miroslav Aleksic will come, all of whom will be gathered here in Hola by order of Dragan Djilas. They're not going in here where they belong, in an O.R. where we hold a session, where they're bound to show up. It won't show, it'll justify it by boycotting, but that's why they'll continue to poison the public at the press conference. You know how, their system is to invent a lie, then place that lie through their media, and maybe have more media under their control, or under the control of Dragan Gilas, and then it continues from day to day to day to spin on both their media and these press conferences. And then, when we prove that it's a lie, on the other hand we don't come across any reaction or apology, but then they open up a new one and they come up with a new lie, they open up a new one called an affair, just so the old one forgets. When it comes to the culture that we are discussing today, you know that, after some of the exhibitions, there is an impression that the state of Serbia, that the Serbian government is doing nothing when it comes to culture, that it is not investing in culture, that culture is absolutely not interested, and it will not be that it is, I will remind that the National Museum in Belgrade is open during the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic. Right? Reconstituted and open, as well as the Museum of Contemporary Art, as well as a whole series of theatres, museums and other cultural institutions throughout Serbia, according to municipalities and cities in Serbia, so I don't want to list now, so we should probably do it all day long, probably. I'll also remind you of the increase in wages for cultural employees to 10%. And this is the result of Alexander Vukic's direct push to follow that benefit for cultural employees. We also heard a detailed investment plan, 300 million in culture, in the programme "Serbia in 2025". So, all of this is saying that there is an honest intention to revitalise the state of culture in Serbia, that the state is sincerely investing in culture in the future, and so far it has unmistakably invested, unlike the former authorities, unlike those we have talked about since the beginning of this debate, but unlike those who once called themselves the elite of our society, so the self-proclaimed elite, the self-proclaimed elite, can also be said a false elite, which has done nothing to correct the state of culture. On the contrary, they closed the museums, closed the movies, closed the theaters, closed the cultural institutions that we are now revitalising, recovering and putting on better and healthy feet. And that is the key difference between the government led by the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic and those mentioned in a poor context from the beginning of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69144	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69145	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, when it comes to culture, the town of Leskovac has something to boast about. All institutions of culture, each in their own work, are constantly achieving excellent results. According to the Institute for Cultural Development Research, respectable republican institutions operating at the Ministry of Culture, Leskovac is very high, when it comes to cultural developments. The Leskovac Cultural Centre was named an institution with the largest number of events in Serbia in 2018, one of the most active and best local cultural institutions in Serbia. Thanks to the Life film director's festival, Leskovac has become recognizable on the map of the most important cultural events in our country and region. The exhibition - Serbs and French, brothers by arms, organised by the National Museum in Paris at the Cultural Centre of Serbia, showed that our museum is an institution with an international reputation, worth the attention and respect. The museum holds three awards for the best museum in Serbia and in 2019 they received recognition of the "Cultural Form" of the Ministry of Culture and Information. Actors of the National Theatre are becoming increasingly visible in TV shows and movies with national frequencies. This year, according to the National Theatre Director's announcements, a rich programme with a quality repertoire awaits us. Culture homes had observed programmes in the context of events organised by the Library, the History Archive and the Centre for Professional Education. They did great in their specialized activities. One word, it's done a lot. We can be satisfied, but of course we can always do better and more. When it comes to funding the institutions of culture, it can often be heard that the secessions for culture are small, but it is important to note that Leskovac is at the top of the issue in the field of culture. Even 9.1% of the budget stands out for this area, which you ministers praised in a recent visit to Leskovac. What's important is that cultural funding is stable and regular and that it increases year after year. The prerequisite for this is, of course, new jobs, a reduction in unemployment, new factories, more efficient budget filling through an increase in the number of people who work and whose earnings are derived for culture. In the end, the town of Leskovac will always support cultural events, because without culture we are not and cannot be a city in the right sense of that word, but it is recommended to all institutions that, besides the budget, they also turn to other sources of funding, projects and struggles for the audience. In the end, a city without culture is a city without soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69146	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69147	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I just called in a few minutes just to get a hold of Mr. Secretary's story. I won't be long. I agree with Mr. Markovic. First of all, I want to say why we're having an affair. Well, precisely because of the lack of political ideas and political programmes and then to be present in public, you must at least try to do something, although it does not give the expected and desired results, because it is clear that the announced boycott has failed and that there is now a way to get out of a hopeless and hopeless situation. The question now arises whether the youth, who leads either civil or political protest, will participate in the elections or not, but well, it is already something to deal with that part of the opposition. There's only one thing I don't understand. If you have a program that is of interest to citizens, if you have people who are guaranteed to realize that program, then what is the boycott? Go to the elections and present yourself as an alternative and win those parliamentary elections. Mr. Minister, I fully agree with you. I am very familiar that a complex media strategy has been developed and I agree with you in the conclusion that this topic must be constantly present. The essence of my exposure was, among other things, that it seems to me that on the Serbian media scene today there are journalists who are allowed to attack, who are allowed to call on a media lynch or lynch in the right sense of that word, that they are physically attacked, not only verbally but physically, and there are journalists who are in some way protected. I want to point to another segment when it comes to information, because I think it's important and when you mention the strategy, I think the accent should be put on it, but we'll talk about, of course, when that's the point of the agenda. False news or Facebook news, information, you know, is a very powerful weapon and there has to be a universal model to oppose other information, or a different argument, and no threats, conflicts, violence, which we have had the opportunity to look at over the past time period. It's precisely because of the power they have, we're increasingly facing misinformation, and it's a greater threat today, we're meeting more and more often with a large number of misinformation, and it's now a far greater threat than ever before, and I think it's a challenge that we have to put together citizens. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69148	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I was talking about this later, but Mr. Milicevic inspired me to say something with a few of his remarks. When it was debated here a year or a few months ago about education in military schools, I read one text, and I think it's particularly important for you, Mr. Minister, in front of your ministry to repeat it. "Being hungry, Austria is gone, the mob has ruled the world, the war has been won by Balkan gypsies, what shame? Der Schwartz George, Karajordje in translation, plays today at the international roulette and won the main score. The Belgrade gentlemen are on a map. Who could believe that? Gray, Lloyd George, Poincare, Clemanso, Wilson, all of them are Belgrade's aces, and who beat us? These lousy Balkan gypsies, who chew onions all day and spit on the absan, this illiterate bogeyman for hangers, today Europe believes and gives some banners, what shame? “ Miroslav Krleža, “Republic, ” a shift on the Jasenovo road, page 277 of 1919. Why did I read this today, Mr. Minister? At least three theatres in Serbia continue to play Miroslav Krleža. Unfortunately, at the oldest theatre in the Balkans, in my theatre in the town of Zrenjanin three years ago, in the year Nusic, Leda was appointed, not Nusic. I agree that art often depends not on the moral size of the artist himself, but yesterday I checked. It remains for the fourth grade of high school in Miroslav Krleža's Lecter. Is this a question perhaps for the minister who was here yesterday, but since these days you form committees that need to decide where the money will go from the budget and where our culture will go, please take care of all of this, especially because if today any Croatian serious literary critic asks about the size of Croatian national writers, Krleža will not be in the first place. More will be Preradovic and Right and many others. It turns out that Miroslav Krleža was the only one who respected Serbs, and this is how he spoke of Serbs. Adolf Hitler did not speak like this, and yet "Mein Kampf" is not in our literature.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69150	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69151	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, and in the principle debate, I mentioned that the separations for culture are not great, that we should work both at the republican level and at the locale to make the singles bigger for culture, but I also stressed the importance of rational availability with funds from the budget. When it comes to the rational availability of money, in accordance with the needs, it should above all be in line with the needs of citizens, but also in accordance with the law, we have unfortunately a lot of negative bad examples from the past. The recent months have been here in the National Assembly for the current address to journalists and the public from the National Assembly of MPs who have come to the Alliance for Serbia. One of them is former regional secretary, Marinika Tepic, whom my colleagues mentioned, whose abuses of position will, of course, be cited as bad examples. After leaving the post, she was accused of purposeless spending on the political line and on private affairs, and based on information that came right from the secretariat, the province's secretariat, which confirmed and suspected there are hundreds of cases where there are no adequate justification in which the funds were spent. For example, the inspection found that a particular fitness club, to which the funds were allocated, does not exist at a given address, but rather a private house. Of course, the owner of the fitness club and Marinika Tepic were then members of the same party. Then, I say then, because Marinika's wing could be if I didn't know how many parties I was in. Well, maybe with that going to the polls. When someone assigns three million dinars to the Banatian Shores Association, and this activity is not of particular importance at Serbia level, nor have certain conditions been met for the money to be allocated, a question arises -- with which credibility does Marinika Tepic accuse anyone? So, those who boycott the tide today, those whose boss is Dragan Gilas, they criticise the proposals from the living room, and that in the parliamentary dialogue they do not want to participate at all, and they show it to us every day. The only thing they do is attack on Alexander Vukic, the SNS, on representatives of the government, as well as misleading citizens by placing lies on high-ranking state officials. They make up affairs every day and then spin around in circles for days the same story. The Alliance for Serbia, in the absence of politics, is being used by manipulation, because their only goal is to turn citizens against Alexander Vukic, while carrying out the dirtiest campaign we have ever seen. But citizens saw that the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, when they had opportunities, and some of them had opportunities, were not only engaged in culture, but were not engaged in anything but themselves. Because to develop culture, you have to have a full and stable budget, you can't go bankrupt. You must deal with both the economy and the economy and the development of other important state resources. I see these days that members of that party, members of the Alliance for Serbia, are fighting each other, and that's probably going to be one of those entertainment issues we're going to be able to watch on their TVs right now. We'll see who's going to participate in the election. The truth to be, in any case, that political programme would be theirs to see, without ideas, without sound proposals, without work and results that will stand out of them, contrary to the SNS programme, which will have a concrete programme this time, with realistic goals set and, above all, towards the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69152	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the concept of culture in the broadest sense refers to the care of the system of values and, depending on the system of values we cultivate, we will harvest certain fruits. If we primarily cultivate consumer hedonistic lifestyles, then we become, above all, interested in our comfort and pleasure, rather than in our common problems. Global society in the 21st century will seek, to survive, to seek a man of new true culture, who cultivates judgment, compassion and the will of balance, not merely desire and calculation. We're going to need a man of new, true education, who forms a character, not just a skill. As it took 100 years and more to create a consumer, so it will take decades to create a new man who will know how to balance the right balance between material and spiritual needs. The reason is simple. The wealthier part of the population that has an impact on the institutions mentioned is developing on the ideology of unlimited economic growth, unlimited exploitation of resources, market development and, most importantly, the ideology of consumer habits among those who do so, and that is us, ordinary people. Therefore, it is not in their interest to question the basis on which their success at this time rests or to question it radically. The view is that the transformation of global society needs to be done gradually. The central site of culture in the doctrine of sustainability, which is gaining more supporters in the world, is of particular interest to Serbia. A new culture of sustainability as its main opponent sees the culture of consumer mentality and as the main resource in promoting a new paradigm sees so-called ". Sustainable traditions. Special attention in the future will be paid to intergenerational relations, i.e. respect for the wisdom of older people, intergenerational education, increased level of understanding of knowledge, which is hidden in traditional religions and other traditional values. Here, it can be an interesting platform on which Serbia could build a new environment in society in the 21st century. Although the declaration of tolerance is being promoted as one of the basic principles of democratic society, there has been a high degree of intolerance on our public scene that one side of the so-called "on one side" for a long time. Eurosceptics or traditionalists, on the other hand, European optimists and modernists. The basic impression is that they do not understand each other, nor do they have compassion with each other, and the next impression is that neither of them has a wider picture of very fast social changes that occur not only in Serbia, but in the whole world. The modern doctrine of sustainability assures us that for success we need both tradition and modern technology and science. Traditional knowledge and traditional culture and spirituality are very essential for the revitalization of morality, spirit and identity worthy of the challenges of the 21st century. Modern technologies and sciences are necessary for the revitalisation of the economy and the moderate material well-being of individuals, families and society in general. This shift in the cultural orientation of society is essential for Serbia's long-term balanced development and has great educational and educational potential for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69154	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69155	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, let me get involved for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and some clarifications, as they discussed journalism here. When it comes to criticism, let's still sort things out. You once said it very well. Allow, however, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the journalists who are watching today, the criticism of the authorities, we are not against the criticism of the authorities, but it must be based on the truthfulness of the facts. Now, when I say this sentence now, take in the last 15 days all the press and Mr. Journalists and see the report from this high house as they reported, vice versa, not what we said. Now, they're not journalists, they're charlatans. I know what danger all the MPs here expose themselves to when they tell the truth and publish one sentence and twist it. They're not journalists. So the criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and then on a good custom, which you would sometimes say, and on a journalistic tradition. Does it work? Is this what Tomislav Markovic, a journalist who has never really informed the truth from this assembly? They're not journalists. It's the journalists who are charlatans. So much for journalism, but honor to exceptions, there are good journalists. What's very important is that our journalists go to political protests, have political parties. They're not journalists. About the independence of the press, I quoted yesterday from 1953, and I have no intention of repeating it today. I believe that's what my fellow journalists were listening to yesterday. But let me just say a few more sentences. A colleague Markovic mentioned Marinika Tepic, who is a respected MP. Well, that woman, instead of being here in the benches, she's going to press conferences. It is otherwise known as "electric rabbit" Dragan Gilas. She informs the lie button every day. You were a witness, and all of Serbia's citizens, when neighbouring countries deny certain things, then it goes on. If I were a prosecutor, municipal, not republican, I'd do my job, especially when it comes to military matters. Let it go to the United States and any European country, let it say it. Of course not, but behind her is Master Gilas. I said I wouldn't quote, but I still want to do it because of that piece of journalists who didn't listen yesterday, and let the journalists find themselves in this quote that I'm about to say, which I'm going to quote from 1953, but also politicians, charlatans and politicians, charlatans and cultural workers. So, it's from 1953, an American journalist from the New York Times in a toast he held along with his journalists, he said, quote: "The job of the journalist is to destroy the truth", let now be found in this sentence, Mr. Journalists, "to lie openly", now find Tomislav Markovic and Mr. Cvijic, a journalist and even teachers. Professors too, gentlemen. Radonjic, a professor, answered, has not denied a single sentence since yesterday. I'm glad he felt called, so I guess he'll learn something from pedagogy. Further, “to twist, to be insolent, to worship before a golden calf, and to sell their own land and people to earn bread. ” Let them find each other now. You want to list them in a row now? It would take me a long time and their statements on this sentence. Let's move on. "All these praises about the independent press, what do we need them for? “ It’s all a quote. Let's move on. "We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes." Who is behind Marinika Tepic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? So here's the quote. tycoon Dragan Gilas with 619 million he didn't make, and I have to say, as an ordinary naked man, he went into politics. We all know that. What does this one say in this toast? "We are puppets, they draw strings, and we dance. Our talent, our opportunities and our lives are owned by other people," and adds in the end, this is also very important for journalists and journalists charlatans and analysts, "we are intellectual prostitutes", finished quote. Let them now find themselves in this quote. Since Mr. Markovic spoke of what was done in culture, we said so, but let me, in addition to what he listed, we also have in Novi Sad archives and city archives that have been completed. Here we must commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are few archives in the state in the last 50 years that have been restored, especially newly built. It is good, Mr. Minister, that you have returned the Serbian Academy of Science to the budget and the funding is being made out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The previous government ten years out of the budget system held. You know whose moment, me and you and the citizens of Serbia. That's the point. The historical archive of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts is, you know, like me and the professors, in a very difficult state, and I know it's working to improve, and that's the real thing. We specifically talked about professional personnel, and let me just say that she's a little archivist, a museologist that I don't even talk about. We don't have any guidance in colleges in that part, so we're really in a difficult situation, but it's very important what we've been doing for the last six, seven years. The financial resources are controlled by the local community budgets, the province and the republican budgets, but to be properly, evenly deployed, planned and in an adequate manner, as you have done in your explanation. Is that what everybody's doing? They're not working. Is it true, Mr. Minister? It's controlled by the DRI, but it's led to a certain lead, because for 30 years, no one's thought about culture in the way it's now being thought. Let me repeat another sentence. Never in Serbia's history, over the past 50 years, has any president of the state been attacked more than Alexander Vukic, and has never had any more support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you from the opposition that you're looking at now, from your offices, and the others? So I'd like someone to stand up and deny it. So, no president of the state is ever attacked again, and there is more support than one part of the opposition bench. A journalist can't tell lies. She can't tell a journalist congradin lies without expecting someone to tell her something. Her freedom, her quotes, the reflection of her freedom, not just of others, but of who's funding her? I've given a quote on who's funding those. Do they have any morals? Do they have any morals going down the street next to us trying to find out something? No one refuses to criticise, I say again, but the criticism of the authorities must be based on the truthfulness of the facts expressed by journalists. Anything else, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is charlatanism. I'm sorry, this is by Professor Radonjic, who called today. When he says something, and he's Professor Rabbit's assistant, then he has to quote what the MP says, not twisting any of us. It is he who makes daily lies, but not about us MPs, but most of all about the President of the Republic. Let him go to a political party. He can't do that in college. How can a colleague from "One of the Five Million" by Oliver Toskovic come to a university where I teach for 24 years and wear a "One of Five Million" badge? What if I came to the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade and wore a SNS badge? Is that the separation of teaching from politics? Here you are, gentlemen, professors of political parties. It's a little harder because they're covering themselves. It's about very bad teachers, one part, and honor... There's a wonderful, wonderful academic community, and it's just the noisy unemployed, the lesbians who spent years of financial resources and didn't work. One of them was here yesterday and he ran away, because he asked the association to draw funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, not based on the project, and the project financing of us, the professor, in college, is not money in our pocket, but to invest in ourselves and write scientific papers. How much does he do that from those who call the current government? Very little. The honor of most. The vast majority of the academic community is doing their job, included in the work, in revitalising many things and in cultural activity, in scientific activity and train, Mr. Minister, yesterday I said, in 2008, someone enters cars, someone doesn't, it flows. Gentlemen, let him enter, who shall not remain at a certain station. I have to finish this part. There is no force in the world to stop the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Those who call it today, this morning, are called by those who said, here, I will quote, both teachers and one part of journalists, and especially representatives of political parties, said -- Kosovo was never ours, nor will it be. That's exactly what they're doing. When they come under the influence of the Criminal Code, please, 305th to 321th members, then Professor Radonjic wonders and says – Professor Atlagic and others call for murder when someone says so. We're not calling, but someone within these members has said some things where they must be held accountable. When I mentioned what would only be for Prince Milosh, he says he's calling the professor for murder. That's my teacher. Is that how he works with students? That's the torture professor, and he says he just found out this morning, so his deanes, his rector, and the Protector, know it, all of Serbia knows it. And when they say -- where did Judge Majic get the information for those who are breaking up drugs, I'll tell him to come to the National Library among the students, among us professors, hear that name and last name, come to any cafe in Serbia, you'll hear that last name, Judge Majic and the professor as well as the distinguished Vednelic, after she surprised me the day before, she is a colleague, but that hatred in her for the last 15, 20 years on those people who love her country, because I can't imagine. I'm sorry, I can't imagine it - a professor who doesn't love his country, a professor who doesn't love his people as much as he respects others, and when we talked yesterday about archives, archival and library buildings, we said that that's where the identity of the Serbian people, other people and national minorities is kept, because then a colleague comes to me and twists here. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this isn't the last 10 years. There are some people sitting here following the bar, trying to track things. We'll have to act differently for some things, too. One MP is now the president of one party, here every day here, 64 times in the past term insulted the MPs of the SNS and coalition partners, Maja Gojkovic, President Veroljub Arsic, Vice President, Dr. Vlad Orlic, Dr. Martinovic, starting to be monkeys, through all other things. If you want for the citizens, every day I'm going to quote the day, the second they say it here. He's saying he's attacking himself and he's insulting himself. No, but the truth is on the other side you know and let the press see it now. I'm sorry to be so emotional, but I'm glad Professor Radonjic realized that he must have a little pedagogy, especially to the cymology that he has to study a little bit, and if he didn't know that the torture professor had to ask his students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69156	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69157	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, given that we absolutely accept, I hope, all the MPs in this House what you said today when you talk about freedom of the media, of course, your views are correct, but there are a few questions to which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are still expecting an answer. The freedom of the media is undoubtedly about freedom of speech, and all of this again is about some of the principles of democracy or democratic behaviour or action. What's the question? The question is when does the abuse of freedom of speech occur, and thus the destruction of the media. We are witnesses of maltene daily that freedom of speech is severely or harshly abused. The question is, how long can it be tolerated? We politicians are exposed to criticism of the public and when this criticism of the public appears to a greater extent, then there is some rule that we politicians need to have some higher degree of tolerance or tolerance when it comes to criticism referred to either the person of the politician or his political action. Dear Minister, where are the limits where this criticism can be endured? Where are the limits when this policy arises as an excess of that degree of tolerance that implies the patience that someone to our or your harm brings out harsh untruths? Where are these limits when finally someone has to react, and these are the institutions of the system, too, in that sense, I mean the institutions of the judiciary? We don't even have rules when the system's institutions will have to react. Why? Because we didn't systematicize them, we didn't standardize them anywhere. The question is, can we even standardize them and how do we do this kind of graduation that involves the possibility of me suffering to a certain extent, that this measure has a certain limit or a certain level, and after that, to enjoy some kind of protection, after all, of judicial protection? I have to call on something that happened yesterday and today by someone who calls himself a politician. Of course, I don't want to, nor have I ever done that to say anything negatively against a person, but according to the vocabulary, according to the manner of expression, according to the views, according to the attempt to undermine the state, I will always respond to it because it is my duty, it is my civic duty, it is my duty as a MP representing these citizens in this house. Marinika Tepic, who undoubtedly expresses an outstanding talent, but indeed an exceptional talent to represent the interests of all those who work against the state of Serbia, thus also the interests of Kosovo's provisional institutions, could even be considered a good ambassador to Kosovo's provisional institutions when it comes to attacks against the Republic of Serbia and its leadership, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. The talent is obviously undeniable, but the question is raised – if someone is obviously in their vocabulary by participating in public discourse destroys the system or the institutions of the state, undermines Serbia, is that what is under the freedom of speech, is that what it means to abuse the media, or is it something that implies a counter-action in which the being or beings of a criminal act must react to the judicial authorities, starts from the prosecution to the competent court? I also speak from the people of the profession because it's my profession. The question remains a question that has not been answered properly so far. When I say right, that means there's a standard based on which, when that standard applies, someone will be processed, his responsibility will be determined and an adequate sanction will be imposed. In particular, when I mentioned the name and last name of Marinika Tepic, it would be more than justifiable. However, such an epilogue is not sure that it will come to life, that it will be, and it only opens the door to make such a vocabulary suitable for minors as one fixed pattern, as one uniform form, as a mode of action. Can we let that happen? I think as serious politicians, as serious people on this issue, we need to think very seriously and give an adequate answer to that question. Whether the government will succeed, remains in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I am convinced that most of the MPs in this house share my opinion and we really expect an answer to this question because it is high time to finally suppress what the danger to the Republic of Serbia means. Freedom of the media isn't something that's fluid, it's not something that can be used as a balloon to blow or blow up when it suits whom and what it's like. On the contrary, there must be certain rules of conduct, and there must be certain standards that must be respected. I don't want to open the topic that you've opened in time, and I am a supporter of that attitude that this society is contaminated enough with various negatives, various negative phenomena. Contamination has started since the introduction of programmes on various televisions, including televisions with national frequencies, unfortunately and this contamination continues, even more and more. I ask the question – when are we going to go through decontamination? When are we going to go through the suppression of everything that involves restoring the value criterion that we once had, even under different circumstances of life, even under different circumstances of action and political and each other because it was a different system? But fortunately for those of us who were able to grow up at that time, the values were respected and existed as values. Where are they now? Where's the culture now that doesn't change its physionomy? Culture is a culture, and you can't escape from that word. It implies a series of different norms that a man manages and enthralls his life, breathes. Is that how it is today? Are you sure that's right? I'm sure you're not and that we need to get culture back into our lives, get rid of everything I thought, and now I think it's a classic form of contamination and that some of the things I think should be eliminated, eliminated as soon as possible. When it comes to political speech, then we must take care of the highest interest of all citizens of Serbia, which is the interest of the state, that is the interest that we all have to bow to and always have to fight for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69158	Thank you. Mr Vukosavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69159	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I can hardly agree more with you than I agree with you about the words you just said. So, we're in the same field, we're in the field of understanding about the nature of phenomena, which we don't give, and I'm going to repeat, what I think is meaningful, to repeat on these occasions, the laws are these, in addition to the standard models of the customs of morality and the general understanding of a society, are the laws that make adjustments in the desired direction according to the values and system of a society. So, the spirit of time, not only in Serbia, but also in Europe, and mostly globally for decades, has been in favour of the thesis, both where and how much and how in which country it varies, but in the West not too much, that there is an assumption of absolute freedom of the media and freedom of public speech, public expression of its own views, but that freedom is available until that moment, until the moment when it touches someone else's freedom or right. And who in that case is reacting? Those who are authorized by society to protect and enforce laws are the authorities of the State that are called accordingly. So we are now in one situation, not right now, but in the situation, not to mention the examples now, there have been many where individual representatives, individual media at the given time, said, well, now if a court punishes us with so much and so much, we will be prevented from working. And now how do you respond to such a thesis? You know, it's like a child who's done some damage, who's been distracted by the fact that he can't do it, because there's going to be sanctions, and then that kid still does damage, and then he complains that he's going to face sanctions. That's what happened and it happens. So, we as a society need to define that in respect of the law, in respect of the rules of this country in respect of honor, respect for the reputation and security of people, there must be no exceptions to respect for the law. That's quite clear. So this is the answer to your question, which was rhetorically to a certain extent, that's where we agree, where are the boundaries? Borders exist, are not written, are described and certain entities that need to protect these borders, as the military protects state borders, so some authorities of the state guard other borders of moral, political, family, security, etc. So we have to work on it. As for this second question of yours, part two, when will decontamination begin regarding what was said before? It will begin at the time when the company through its representatives of the authorities will be extremely determined on the objectives and purposes of the assessment that there is contamination, as a right, and then on the means that remain available to start decontamination. So, the awareness of it, I think, is quite high, remains to see how we will react as a society. One thing draws another. Society is a complex organism, as we all know, I don't say here any news or knowledge that others in this room don't have, it's simply not even a problem in the name of a program, whether it's a reality program or some other program. The problem is the content that is broadcast through this programme, etc., etc. Thus, solutions exist, solutions are in line with the spirit of time and the capacity of a society, a generation to face those challenges that it considers to be negative challenges for its functioning. So, all the tools are there, the political will is mostly there. It remains to be seen that this topic, what you have been saying now and related topics are as often present in this high home and elsewhere as possible, and that simply no matter who is the bearer of negative phenomena, in the media and elsewhere, it is not only politically or verbally condemned, but when conditions exist, and sometimes these conditions exist, that the state through its courts, through the authorities, reacts regardless of who it is. That's the idea of law, that's the idea of law, that's the idea of state, that the laws act "ergaomnes" to all act equally and without exception. Of course, in the practices of all states there are margins of such a principle. The smaller the margin, the more successful and healthy society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69160	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69161	Thank you. More to say upgrades to what is said than replicas, because there is no reason to replicate given the identity of thinking when it comes to essential issues for the state. But, Your Honor, I've been here a long time. Many of my colleagues, too, have never come to a culmination in media abuse, as it seems lately. The culmination of the abuse of the media, when you hear that someone comes to a home called the Temple of Democracy, holds a press conference, literally, I have to use a harsh expression, the president of the state, the foreign minister, because they represent the interests of the state, because they are fighting for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the media are taking advantage of it, in particular, to be very precise, to be fenced, to be used by individual media as a single type, and how do the good sections that will raise the capacity of that medium, raise or watchfulness or circulation, however, are they free media? It's a question that stands and burdens us all the time, it's our mortgage to the Honorable Minister. It's a mortgage we can't get rid of, it's never been that way. And at the time when the SPS was condemned for the alleged dimension of behavior that implies media control, not on the contrary, what we see today, what we experience and endure, is nothing more than in some pervasive, even vulgar sense of media rape. That's all I've been saying to the Honorable Minister that it's not to be allowed. At times when fate battles are fought for the state of Serbia, when a large number of countries withdraw recognitions of Kosovo, when the international reputation of Serbia, no matter how much you're holding it back from both the west and the other side of the planet, that international reputation of Serbia grows and you know it, because you're fighting for it. You are in that line, on that front, and at that moment when those battles that are fateful for Serbia, lead in a successful way, we have examples that become daily. I won't talk about justice anymore, the judiciary has to react and we expect it from him, but we expect those who can influence the media within the limits of the law and the legal powers to make sure that all of us together stop this way of undermining the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69162	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69163	The media are in charge of this ministry, but it seems to me we're a little off the hook. In Serbia, the media is mostly private and no one can, as you try to say, edit the media, not you, but the MPs, and you agree in one part. The fact is, the Ministry can be against the spine here, among other things, told to fight culture. We are quite, not only in the media, in Serbia there is quite a lot of bread and games, and then they give huge money for new year's concerts to singers in almost every local self-government, etc. On the other hand, what we're hearing from the MPs today should be kind of like a personal defensive attitude. That's not right. This Snow White Congradin, mentioned here, who is a journalist of "Today" has been intruding because these days, in recent days, she's been writing negatively about Alexander Vukic. I understand the MPs of Alexander Vukic's defense, but that Snow White Congradin wrote a lot worse. She's been claiming to be genocide in Srebrenica for months. She's been claiming for months that Kosovo is a republic. Is it possible that it's not in front of Alexander Wolfich and in front of any of us? She has also personally offended and insulted Vojislav Seselj because he regularly writes in his columns that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal. But what we have to fight against is that we are just suppressing all available means to spread that story that there was genocide in Srebrenica and that Kosovo is a state. So let's look at it that way. Comrade Arsic, if I exaggerate, take it away from me from the MP's group. Please, let me just finish the thought. We have one single RTS so-called. Public service. Nobody's talking about it here. It's the only medium we can talk about here this way. The public service is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and is financed by all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What do we have on that public service? Where are our serious cultural shows? Where are the serious political shows? How on this public service now that the topic of speaking is, I don't know now, about this reduction of censorship, etc. How is it that Tatjana Macura, your Tanya, now you call her that, how does she get the space in "The Questionnaire"? Everyone else bothers you that they don't sit here and give her a seat in the questionnaire? A little bit of coming out of culture into politics, because everyone here today is talking about politics, which is legitimate from this place, but here's the minister's suggestion that what is your jurisdiction is is to get a little more involved in public service, first of all in this cultural program, because we have a little bit of national culture there.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69164	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69165	Very short. Dear People's MPs, Mrs. Radeta, I agree with your presentation in the work concerning RTS, but you as an experienced politician know very well, in fact you know perfectly what are the competences of the Ministry of Culture and Information regarding the interventions of this type. So, the programme for culture understood in a narrow and broad sense on RTS is barely represented. They have some formats, I can't say, there's that, they even have a cultural journal, I've talked about it several times, which is broadcast at night or for people suffering from some insomnia, so they can welcome midnight or sometimes even later, but even such formats, this isn't "but" to justify, but only, and I say even such a format is missing on other televisions with a national frequency almost entirely. Public service has a greater obligation because it is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We pointed out this subject on several occasions, just sometimes at some point in time, a turn in thinking, we harshly simplify it, but it's pretty much like that, when I don't know exactly how many years ago the public service stopped at the point of view officially or unofficially that it's in a commitment, some fictional, that the race in ratings with commercial televisions and that they simply broadcast those programs that they simply estimate will be highly rated by the ratings. Of course, when such logic is applied, then what it turns out is, out of that car, the first culture and those contents that are considered not attractive. We are constantly pointing to that, but the principle of the division of power and responsibility and competence of the Ministry is that it cannot affect public service with certain concrete measures and to define them, I sometimes regret it, simply so, whether I am sorry or not, it is irrelevant. I agree that more space is needed, especially at the public media service, but we will work within the limits of our powers, because more than that we cannot, we cannot, we can warn, of course, the state can do so through its representatives, the board of directors, etc., to work. Simply, this topic should be constantly in front of our eyes, for the benefits of it are doubtless and great, and the absence of such an approach also brings great harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69166	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69167	In one part of the minister yourself, you said that public service was a few years ago when they said they wanted to get close to commercial television for ratings, etc. We don't mind and so you can influence, say when the budget is done, say – these want to do commercial television, let them earn as well as private television, and in terms of the Ministry of Culture, they don't contribute anything, I mean RTS, they don't contribute to the development of culture, to the spread of tradition, to the description, etc., nothing that is in the interest of Serbian citizens, which can be expected on such a television. Then you say it nicely – I suggest that they no longer finance themselves from the budget. That would be, then let them choose, don't finance themselves from the budget, don't fund them by the citizens, let them choose then and introduce whatever programs they want, so let them get to the point of view. If we're paying them a subscription and they're getting paid for that bad one, we agreed, the bad budget program, and how you're having an impact, and we're here. So, as far as I'm concerned, you mentioned the board of directors. We've been pushing for years, decades, the board of public service has to be elected in the National Assembly and it has to be a reflection of the forces in the National Assembly. What everyone tries, not everyone, but many through the media to sort of satanicize parties, so there is no democracy without parties, the position of parties is defined by the Constitution. What is it, what is bad and what is embarrassing to say – that, the political parties sent by the people to the National Assembly with a certain percentage of the votes of that people, have the right to propose their member to the RTS Management Board, and then we can all talk together about individual members and change them in general and the general work of the Management Board, and then in general about the work of the public service. So the solutions only exist to agree that we will.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69168	The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69169	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, gentlemen, I would like to take part in this debate when it comes to amendments and amendments to the Law on Culture, but moreover, to return only to the essential subject of what has been brought about by this amendment and the addition of the law, and it is clear from this previous debate that what we said in the principle debate, in fact, culture is everything, everything that surrounds us, and therefore there is no definition of culture itself in the law itself. When it comes to this very proposal, I consider it also for our own sake, for the sake of the public in general, that it must be pointed out that this, in my opinion, is very round and very good for the coming time, the proposal for amending and supplementing the law, in fact the result of one previous work of the Ministry, which is rounding up certain sectors and activities, directly in constant communication with the institutions of culture at different levels, in different ways. As far as I had insights and local self-governments and institutions all over Serbia, in fact, summed up one unique thought that in future times it was very important to culture in some way and to unite all events, to have a comprehensive insight into it, but what I think is particularly important here is to put quite an emphasis on what our preservation of heritage was, was immovable and its digitisation and microfilm about what was said in the principle debate. These two things are so important to me that they must be said a few words again. Just from the point of view of everything that is politics again, but the international relationship to Serbia's culture and what our culture definitely carries with it, which is what it was and what it will surely be, and that is the need to take over various subjects and various factors that what is Serbian heritage becomes theirs because they do not have it. Now, that's why it's important for me, in this time, that the ministry has precisely shown this high responsibility and national consciousness by not jeopardizing the right of anyone and anything and to preserve that the heritage is in the whole Serbian space and to document it not only now for this, as they would say, tumultuous time but for everything that will come in the future and which requires an adequate response and responsibility from us. When it came to the details that this law had brought up in the debate was mentioned, which was of great importance, of course, invaluable almost, restoring and returning to the function of the old, valuable, ancient culture institutions without which we were like a nation without hands, I would say, the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art. Here these days, the National Theatre in Vranj, I would point out the theatre in Subotica, all of this shows that in fact the Ministry of Culture does not centralize its activities on the capital but dilutes all local self-governments according to a certain requirement, time, politics, current objectives etc. So I think it's one segment that in these events, in the past time was very important, but also that has drawn out a very good direction that will provide even better results for the next time. Also, not just the protection of objects, or the institution of culture. I would point out that this ministry has paid great attention to the content of what is really happening. I will mention this occasion that in March of last year in Sremski Karlovci, the so-called "Smemski Karlovci" was adopted, or signed. raises on a Serbian cultural space that as such never existed and has united in one place in such a famous but large place as Sremski Karlovci, all representatives of the Serb people, Serb communities living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, either in its environment or in the diaspora. What did he show among other things? Not only the importance of the signed document, but especially the positive energy that these people who do not live in Serbia have shown their positive mood, but also the gratitude for speaking in such a way about a unique Serbian cultural space and that we can all see and recognize each other in one high and important topic. I think that such things should also be in the future focus because it strongly encourages all members of the Serb people living outside the state of Serbia, encourages them in their work and encourages them in their microspace, in the environments where they live, precisely to protect what is essential to the very Serb being. I'll just say this one more example. As far as the ministry and its representatives are concerned, I really need to tell Mr. Minister and in your person there were everywhere where the events and times in culture are important a paradox of 20 years ago and something that is present today. After 2000, the state government then established had an idea to shut down, for example. The book fair and after 2000, after 50 years of its existence, the institution repeated the first Culture Ministers' Book Fair that did not appear at the Book Fair, etc. Now the ministry is present and shows that in each segment in every important place, an appropriate response is given to events and initiatives, in this case by writers and publishers along with foreign writers and publishers who at the Book Fair are just encouraging what is our common creation. Speaking of this, I think that maybe in the next period, it's just one of the suggestions that can be found in the future is that this ministry, that this Ministry of Culture has an initiative along with all other entities in the country, that at last a building of the Belgrade Opera is built and that we round up with the institutions of culture our square of the Republic in Belgrade, and that's what generations before us are also talking about, I also don't think it would be debatable to rebuild the bombed National Library. The end of Belgrade is being refurbished, where the Serbian book is being injured, in a symbolic way, I believe it is necessary to restore the institution that will be the temple, never to repeat itself again, and something that will be the phoenix of what will happen in the coming generations. Of course, when it comes to all of this, it was present, today very present, what is happening in the media, where I think there must be responsibility for what is said and there must be a culture of expression and dialogue. But it's not just the culture ministry's task, no matter what its title is, culture and information, it's our work together, politicians and all the other factors. It is precisely an invitation for all to join forces and to be responsible for what has been done. In this sense, I believe that the results of the Ministry of Culture, when especially now this proposal of the law in culture, are very promising, and in this sense they will certainly be preserved, the Serbian cultural being, the Serbian heritage and create its duration in the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69170	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69171	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, culture is often in our society in some way a neglected topic and I would say, as children think or thought earlier in schools, that when it comes to physical or artistic or musical, that it is some object that we will pass easily, that as well as as society we have treated backwards and culture for decades. This was pictured through the state that we had at the National Museum and through the library that I had already talked about and the books, and here's a colleague of mine said that the previous government, the previous regime of which today, as opposition by the Persian Dragan Gilas, had been experiencing the Book Fair, so they wanted to put an end to it, so that they could start something again, because of them, it all begins. Of them, in fact, only begins what is unculture, and this unculture, I would say, could be seen in where we could make a significant contribution, never forget what was done and how it was done, if a virtual real museum, a museum of lies, a museum of failed projects and robberies were opened. Well, for example, in that museum of lies, the first setting could be Marinika Tepic, from slime to slime, for example. I won't talk about them any further when it comes to culture. I'd like to pick up where I started. Culture is one of the pillars of society and people who forgets their culture, who does not cultivate their culture, their history, their tradition, will come into a situation to cultivate other people's history and become part of another's tradition, and then lose themselves, and when they lose themselves, they will lose their territory, and then they will slowly lose themselves completely and biologically in the time ahead. We all know how we as a society stand when it comes to population policy, when it comes to the birth of children in our home. It's one of the dangers. But, I'd say, through the foundation of culture, we can do a lot here, by waking up our people's consciousness about what our culture is, how great our history is, how rich we have culture and tradition, how much this people have surprised significant people for world culture and world cultural heritage. We talked about it in principle, how important people are, from Pupin, Karadzic, Tesla, etc., that I am not talking about today's athletes, Novak Djokovic, how many people from the Serbian people have refused from this country, which we didn't even understand in their beginnings, which we didn't even help enough as a state. To be clear, these people promoted themselves, created themselves, but then they didn't promote themselves as part of another country that might have helped them finish their education or helped them in their sports careers, but they were proud of their ancestors, of their origins, and they didn't say at that point the state couldn't or didn't have the understanding to help me, but they knew that the state was much bigger and much wider than that, than the current policy. That's exactly what culture represents. It is not and should not be just a reflection of the current policy in one society, so, let's say, those unfortunate from 2000 to 2012. The Serbian state has existed for over a thousand years. And the culture of the Serbian state should be just that. For thousands of years and over a thousand years, the existence of the Serbian state has been much greater than 12 years of destruction, robbery, crime and corruption, which in this Serbia paints and paints today through the opposition action of Dragan Gilas. You have done a lot as a ministry, first of all, I have said it, and thanks to President Alexander Vukic, who is aware of the importance of culture both in a symbolic sense and in a literal sense to our people. We have to restore our historical memory, we have to be proud of our ancestors, we have to make more films, we have said that the Assembly and politics do not interfere in movies, but we have to make more films that speak of our history and tradition, not only from World War II and the heritage of tradition on partisan fights and folk-free movement, but also make movies and series far more about World War I, about the First and Second Serbian uprising, about the time of Germany, about the time of the loss of Serbs after the Kosovo Battle, about the time when we definitely fell under the Ottoman Empire, to illuminate the period of history after the fall of Smederev until the first Serbian uprising. I'd say maybe we don't know enough about ourselves here. There are several hundred years in history that we haven't shown enough to our children, but we can do it through textbooks, it's cheaper, in a way, than screening such topics, to show children what happened in that period, how we managed to do it, in much more difficult circumstances than today, when you have Internet, social networks, much easier opportunity to promote your own culture and history then to survive and to be faithful and consistent with what we are. We are Serbs and we are proud of it. And then that powerful Ottoman Empire couldn't contain his Orthodox faith, his Christian feelings, with us to stop celebrating the glory, to go to church. We managed to fight it when the Ottomans banned the church bells from ringing again, and the church bells started ringing again. We managed to fight to survive our letter. We're fighting it a lot harder today. Today perhaps a good portion of the MPs use more Latin than Cyrillic. So today, when it's much easier for us, we, I'd say, as individuals, don't do enough to save ourselves, but somehow we're drowning in these globalist challenges of time into something that can drag us into a foreigner, which is to blend in with someone much bigger and much more powerful than we are today. It is this history and tradition that separates us from many peoples in the Balkans and in this area. I'm sure we can be proud of that. We don't have to deny what once happened, that some individual wanted to do something wrong in the name of our people, that's true, but let's put an end to it. It happened in a period of five or ten years, but our history lasts over a thousand years. In those thousand years, we never fought conquest wars, we never committed any genocide, we never killed, we didn't create mass graves, we didn't make concentration camps like Jasenovac, we didn't make many other caves in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they did in World War II to our people. We were the ones who were liberating. We have freed all these places from fascism, from Nazism, from many other conquerors and conquerors, and we can be proud of that. We never as a people and as a state had any bad intentions towards anyone, that we would now hide our history, to hide our tradition, to be ashamed of us for a year in the existence of the Serbian state. We were more people victims than anything else in our history, the victims, I would say perhaps the greatest in these places, by all those who lived around us. What am I saying that for? Because in today's edition of the daily "Today", I saw it on their portal, the DS MP from their list, Tomislav Zigmanov, spoke of the terrible position of the Croatian minority in Serbia, an almost creepy position. He says they are the most hated nation in Serbia and that Croats live in some terrible fear of Serbs and the state of Serbia. I, as an MP, also participate in the work as chairman of the Parliamentary Friendship Group with Croatia, and I must answer that it is simply not true, but it is completely one, I would say, but part of organised hysteria, in general, against the undermining of the Serbian state, and now we are going from within. Now inside we need to show that Serbs are against national minorities, and I would say that they may be the position of national minorities in Serbia, so someone can deny me if there is a concrete reason to deny, perhaps the best position in Europe, in the world, the position of national minorities in Serbia. Anything that is desired, everything that is required of the state, the state, that no one can tell us -- well, we don't have the right to our letter, we don't have the right to our own language, we don't have the right to textbooks, anything that the state, in accordance with its financial capabilities, can enable, give and enable. Don't make it cover up its symbols, its flags, they can do anything, just don't undermine the integrity of the integrity and sovereignty of the state you live in, respect that country, and we respect your speciality, because your speciality as part of our country is the wealth of our country. By respecting minorities in our country, we are, by my deep conviction, a much stronger state than those who burn Serbian flags, who break tablets with Cyrillic inscriptions, those who do not allow it to appear, who have banished 250 thousand Serbs, burned down Serbian houses, those who made Jasenovci, and say -- not only killed millions of Serbs, but imagine only 70,000, so Serbs have never been a people who deny any crime, but therefore we will not allow anyone in our country to say that our country is being treated badly, and in this country has acquired everything there is. And no one has taken away his dwelling, nor his house, nor has forbidden him to speak, nor has He forbidden him to plead as this or that of a nation's minority. We respect everything, respect the culture of all our neighbours in the Balkans, and everyone in Europe, the world, but what we're looking for is that minimum, and respect us too. If we respect each other, I think we have far more chance here and opportunity for a better, shared co-existence and life in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69172	The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69173	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs. Amendments to the Law on Culture, providing support and promotion to cultural activities, also creating a legal basis for further system planning, manifestations. Also, the proposed solutions will allow a uniform and efficient way of using new information technologies, in the fields of culture, using unique software solutions, in the process of digital restoration and the protection of collection funds, as well as mobile and immovable cultural goods. Culture as an inescapable part of life and education enters a time when its expression will develop in many ways, adapted to each user. The goal in the field of digitisation is to achieve the visibility and availability of our country's cultural heritage. The Republic of Serbia has an invaluable heritage of all cultures and peoples living in these areas. The boys, the Roast Patriarch, the Gracanica, the Sopocans are only part of our cultural heritage. The heroic dimension of Serbian culture is the expression of the eternal struggle for freedom, and that is why this is all of great importance. Cultural entities that make up Serbia's modern culture, in order to preserve them, singled out basic and complex entities whose duration dates back to the beginning of the Serbian state's reconstruction. Our country is famous for numerous cultural events and festivals held in all parts of Serbia and are already a recognizable brand, such as "Guce", "Nishvila", "Exita" that exceeds the importance of culture and enters the domain of social areas such as tourism, economy, sports. The criteria are defined to assess the importance of events that are a recognizable brand at the central but local level and thus encourage further development of cultural tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69174	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69175	We intervened here, Mr. Minister, because we believe that at point 5, as you suggested, for us Serbian radicals, it is unacceptable to respect, in this sense, what you said, the cultural and democratic values of local, national, regional, European and world traditions. That doesn't mean anything to us. We focused on what is much more important for the Republic of Serbia, which is the fact that only 26 national communities live in the Vojvodina area and we wanted to make absolutely this amendment a contribution that your ministry, as well as the Serbian Government, are dealing with this wealth of diversity in a much more serious way. Now I've used one term, you know there's such a project that you support, but that's really how it is. I have no idea how the Slovaks live in Kovacica or how they live in the Russian Cross of Russia, you know. Of course, I can't help thanking you for making, behold, in the heart of Shumadia, one such event last year, so that my fellow citizens can see how other people live in Serbia. But all of this should be done in such a way, and we really insist on helping the members of all these national communities, that they in particular rural areas, in their villages in the best way care and heritage of their culture so that they can also present it to us. We as a country, and according to the Constitution of our country and by the laws, really want to provide an absolute opportunity for them to do so, unlike the Ustasha Croatian government that allowed some days of culture to be organized, here it is, quite possibly followed by Professor. Atlagic, in Zagreb last year, and on the other hand, all other rights, and that is so ironic. You know, it's like they gave something to Serbs on a spoon, and on the other hand they're threatening the remaining Serbs who live there, scrambling them, not allowing our Cyrillic letter to be used. We as a state must show example that we, and above all through the inclusion of Roma, because they live in many, and their culture and their heritage, which they themselves, above all those who are not in some degree of education, cannot recognize. We have to help all of them, as a state, and your ministry to make it much, much more widespread. You know, that cultural treasure that Serbia rarely owns in the world. I was interested, so I looked, not only now that this law is on the agenda, but when this "culture.rs" app that was supported by your Ministry and that search engine of certain concepts appeared. You're probably not the kind of guy who deals with software solutions and something that's going to look one way or the other, I didn't like it. I didn't like it for a reason, I can't say everything absolutely, but when you enter the term on that search engine, let's say the National Museum, you're going to see a build on the establishment of the Croatian Peasants' Party. You know, it's just amazing. What does an average citizen of Serbia need, or what was he doing there, and what was Moshe Pijada's path? It is not and should not be a goal, but that, if you were already going to search significant concepts, the institution of culture is based on what is important for Serbian national history, as well as on members of national minorities, and their number is high in our country. I'll move on, because I've taken a lot of time to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69176	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are considering amendments to an extremely important law. As important as this law is, I will illustrate it with one example. In the beginning of World War II when Hitler attacked England, the English government occupied and all ministers insisted that the revenues of all other ministries should be cut in order to leave as much room as possible for defence. However, Churchill stood up to it and told them, about these words – excuse me, what will we defend if they destroy our culture and our cultural well-being? Here's the best proof of how important this law is. We, like the state of Serbia and as a people, relatively small people in relation to the height of the state and the height of the people, do not exactly treat our cultural well-being the right way. We have seen that for more than ten years our National, National Museum, has been closed, which has been inadmissible. Thank God, there's finally been an opening. Here, there's the minister, we know that the National Library was still torn down during World War II, when Hitler bombed Belgrade, then Yugoslavia. The building that was first hit was then the National Library building. There's irretrievably destroyed construction, huge national wealth. Of course, we can't blame anyone today for what's been done like that, but I think, as I recall, no government since World War II, until today, and they've changed who knows how much, has asked the question of where that National Library was, the national library, to rebuild a new building. We all know where the National Library is and it's not controversial, but at least one building in that place should have been built as a symbol, as a reminder of something that was of great importance to national culture. I have listed only two examples here, the National Museum and this library from the capital, and there are many such things throughout Serbia's territory. Here, let's say on the territory of Srljiga, where our fellow MP Milija Miletic comes from, and I believe that there are also, I know personally that there are certain national treasures that are not treated our way, and I believe that no one in the ministry has heard of them and that they do not know about these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69178	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69179	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the ministry, honourable MPs, my discussion may be more appropriate after the presentation of the respected professor. Atlagic, but that doesn't change the point, because the Ministry of Culture includes informing, so I would say something about the unprofessional informing of some journalists, as he called them. Atlagic – moral prostitutes. Also, one of the participants in the principle debate on the Law on Culture correctly noted that some journalists are giving honorary interest in barbers, paedophiles, psychopaths, and monster criminals. The famous opera "Sevilski Berberin" was written about the honorable occupation, where it is said to be a barber, what an honor, as well as a recording of the famous film "Sibirski Berberin". In talks with locals in the village of Malca, the story with Ninoslav Jovanovic is not over. He is afraid that with a lawyer like Vladimir Gajic, the current member of "Enough", although he was also in the SP and DS, to remind me, he was arrested in 2007, and that lawyer Natasa Kandic, Duško Saric and Nehat Thaci. Even if the case comes to Judge Majic, there is a possibility that this criminal may be released. Namely, Judge Majic is known for his fierce criticism of life sentences for children's murderers. He released a twenty-four-year-old accused of the promise of a 13-year-old girl with an explanation that the accused as a member of the Roma population did not know that the law prohibited the rape of a minor, but had the right to believe that such behaviour was permitted and even socially desirable, which is in accordance with the practice of the Roma population. In the end, I still think 620 million tycoons of Gilas should be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69180	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go. On what basis, fellow Miletic?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69181	Right on the line. Nikola Savic just called me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69182	You didn't answer your word then.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69183	All right, according to the amendment. I'd like to confirm everything Mr. Rancic, a colleague from Nis, said about those things that happened to the Malcanic barber, which made a big problem for little girl Monica, where we were all maximum involved, but where all of this was the consequence of the release of such people, the reduction of punishment, and all of this was done by people, as Mr. Rancic just said... I've talked about it before, because these people, those who run the courts, are judges, as Mr. Majic has freed a man who has done great damage to the minors of thirteen years. I think all these amendments, which we're talking about now, are very important, because the law now on the agenda concerns all those things, is very positive to hear, to know that a large number of territories, local self-government has a large number of organisations that are positive, where certain products can be placed. In particular, I am talking about "Belmužijada". A large number of people in Serbia do not know, and they heard about "Belmužijad", they heard about "Nishville", they heard about "Leskovačka Gririjad", they heard about "Jazeville", a lot of these things, a lot of these manifestations that happen in our local self-governments, within which you can see everything that is traditional, you can see our traditional costume, our customs, you can see quality products from our region. The most important thing of all is that a large number of people come and go to Svrlig, come to Bela Palanka, come to Književci, come to Soko Banj, come to Nis, take the time to visit these territories, see all that is worth. The low airport has a great opportunity to have more work. As far as Nis himself is concerned, the Nis Tourist Organization is doing its job in the best way, it has great needs for accommodation facilities. It is the same for municipalities like Svrljig, not to repeat myself, because Svrljig is known for its curvature lamb, svrljična belmuž, for its quality products - svrljični cheese, svrljični honey, but there is also Bela Palanka, the same small municipality, which has many good people, as there are Days Banice. When I talk here, I talk about the territory of southeastern Serbia and I talk about all the things that can promote those parts and talk about the problems that are happening there, the problems that we have to solve. Once again, I will always support law proposals where we are given the opportunity to live better in these environments and to solve problems normally. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Culture, as far as this law is concerned, which will be very soon in the next period, related to the reduction of censorship, we will talk about it when the time comes. Otherwise, it must be heard, it must be known and people must know, as far as information is concerned, that in Serbia there is also a United Peasant Party whose representative I am, who has over 55 committees and who stands for southeast Serbia, for people living in the country, who live from the village and who advocate to respect all that is of value to us, but that is man.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69184	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, the Serbian Radical Party submitted an amendment to Article 1. Paragraph 1 of point 11 of the proposal for a law is amended and reads as follows: "It is the right of a cultural entity to decide autonomously". So the amendment of the SRS is more specific. Unlike other ministries, this ministry lacks both normative activity and practical engagement, especially media presence. The silence of events and occurrences is not a good way to work the Ministry of Culture and Information. When this ministry is silent about various phenomena and irritations, such as some social anomalies, then there is chaos and song in society. It must react in terms of preserving and protecting the interests of what is in its jurisdiction. After the economy, as one of the distinguished colleagues said the other day in a principled debate, culture is another important pillar on which every society rests. Of the largest institutions and institutions, culture in this country is such as SANU, Mother of Serbian, Serbian literary cooperatives, Zadružina Kolarac, Dositejev and Vukov's task. Culture is present in some form in each segment of social life, from production, for example, through education, education, science, politics, housing, clothing, nutrition, health culture, worship, etc. Culture makes everyday life easier. It affects individual and social goals. It connects human activities to make it easier and more normal for us to live with each other. Simply put, it conveys acceptable behavior to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69186	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69187	Thank you, Your Honor. It is important for us to adopt the Law on Culture because of the entry into force of all the provisions that are expected to solve the problems that have been seen and when preparing this proposal, but also the problems that existed before and have not been solved by any law. Also, Serbia has taken over certain international obligations and in this area and these obligations should be met, which will complete our legislation as one large system in which culture is only one part. Through the laws of cultural principles, which apply to us, we will comply with international conventions, for example, with the UNESCO Declaration of Cultural Variety or the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Cultural Expressions. This comes from the need for Serbia to monitor modern flows, to monitor flows, of course, in line with the Development Strategy, for the digitalisation processes to get their role in the field of culture as well. In addition, some laws that the Cultural Law must be harmonised earlier have been passed in order to digitise our cultural building. In addition to some of the general places I have pointed out, this proposal offers solutions to more specific problems, such as youth employment in cultural institutions, especially if there are insufficient working conditions. Here I think of the art game as a profession that this proposal knows, and it is necessary to regulate both the right to requalification and the right to pension, too, social protection, termination of employment, insurance against professional injuries and many other things. Therefore, even so, and I just said that cultural separations are insufficient and that should be considered in the future, and besides, there are things that can be regulated by laws, in order to improve the situation in this area. In the past, we have been able to see that the government is working on this field and that it will continue to work. I think that is why support should also be given to these proposals of the law that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69188	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69189	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to achieve a common interest in culture, on which the old Republic of Serbia, as well as on the implementation of cultural policy, should be clearly defined by the principles on which it will be based. You tried to arrange it for this Article 1. It's a bill of law. However, many of the principles that you have stated are absolutely unnecessary in law, and many of them do not mean anything. That's why we asked to delete the point of the 12th member of the proposed law. Culture needs to be constantly encouraged and supported by a comprehensive development of cultural action. The Serbian Radical Party attaches special importance and we believe that it is necessary to present Serbian culture to the world's public in quality. The cultural fluid of the Serbian people must be nurtured and preserved and it belongs to the very top of the world's cultural heritage. Therefore, it is necessary to precisely regulate the law, which will be clear and practical. It is also necessary to set out clearly the list of priorities, when it comes to financial investment, which must take into account the general national interest in the given area of culture. That is why it is unacceptable for us to distribute funds for individual events, such as "Exits", then, to finance different projects of NGOs, "Mirdita" and so on, while all that is authentic and what is the cultural tradition of the Serbian people, which is the highest cultural value of Serbia and the manifestations that cherish and heritage, we will always be happy to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69190	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69191	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would like to point out at the very beginning that the proposed amendments to this article are in line with the application of the Law on Culture with international acts, which is very commendable, but also with the obligation to comply with the Law on Culture, with the general strategic definitions and in other areas, which, in my understanding, is absolutely necessary, because these areas show effects in culture, and they achieve positive effects in the field of culture. The solution to the proposal for this law also highlights the sustainability of cultural development. I believe that this attitude should exist in this article, because I think it is very important to strengthen the capacity of culture and to seek to strengthen the relationship between culture and other areas, such as the area of education, science, the area of tourism, as well as the area where youth is represented, because it is really necessary to integrate culture, i.e. cultural development of socio-economic development, but also in the political development of society. Our goal, i.e. the Ministry of Culture's goal, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to create conditions for the achievement of common interests in culture, as well as the creation of conditions for cultural development and conditions for the implementation of cultural policy as a set of measures and objectives that will certainly foster the development of culture. Our country is famous for organising different events both at the central and local level and these events actually enter into the domain of these mentioned areas. I see here an unbreakable link between culture, tourism, sports, economy, as well as cultural development. From here we can certainly conclude that the area of culture is closely connected to other areas and that this relationship can only positively affect the overall development of culture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69192	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. I asked the amendment for Article 2 of this law to be defined in a better and more precise way. It is a matter that the SRS is constantly insisting on, which is that all laws must have a national omen and be brought into the interest of Serbian citizens, not because of the EU's recommendation. This specifically refers to the Law on Culture, which represents one of the most significant laws of one nation and one state. We are well aware that our most valuable cultural treasures are in Kosovo and Metohija. Since I was born and spent most of my life in Kosovo and Metohija, I ask this government to do everything in its power to protect this priceless cultural treasure. I know there are a lot of obstacles, but given the value of that, you can't go any further than that. We are witnessing that the Scorpions are trying to claim our cultural heritage, but every single one of us has to do everything in his power to stand up to it. My smallness does everything to preserve a part of our culture regarding Kosovo and Metohija, especially the culture of the Kosovo Marine. We have an active association that deals with this issue. I personally collected, wrote, composed, published a large number of folk songs from my native Kosovo Pomorie. So, as an individual, I have contributed in part to the preservation of our culture, which I am extremely proud of. This was helped by my countrymen from Gjilan's legacy club, but I didn't have any help from the state. I know there's still a lot of enthusiasts who do similar things. I therefore urge government representatives to provide certain assistance to individuals like this throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69194	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69195	Thank you. I agree with the Government's view that the amendment should not be accepted, and what I must point out is that culture is part of the identity of one people, part of the past, part of the present, part of the future, and in this sense everything should be done that all cultural historical monuments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are preserved and served to the pride of the present, but also to the pride and benefit of future generations to come. I must also point out that thanks to the steel friendship of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the president of the People's Republic of China Si Jinping in 2018, of course, and on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Serbian Cultural Centre in Beijing, the first Serbian Cultural Centre to be opened in the world after 1973. I must also point out that, thanks to the good relations between the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the President of the Russian Federation of Vladimir Putin, the Russian Federation of Medvedev Prime Minister signed an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on 19 October 2019. The importance of the agreement is of enormous importance from the cultural heritage aspect and from the cultural aspect, as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned. This is the return, i.e. the surrender of the "Peterburg List", which is an integral part of "Miroslav's Gospel", and we know that "Miroslav's Gospel" is the oldest Serbian Cyrillic document, that in 1979 it was declared culturally good of general importance, that as an extremely cultural good in 2005 it was included and on the UNESCO list. Of course, the return of the "Peterburg List", as an integral part of the "Miroslav Gospel", will also serve to meet future generations on this very important document from the XII century, otherwise written in gold. This document is at the National Museum of the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that for the reconstruction, reconstruction and surrender of citizens of the National Museum in Belgrade, it took 15 years, and that is the government of Aleksandr Vukic, or Vukic as president of the Republic, this government managed to bring back citizens, because the National Museum of Belgrade keeps such cultural values that are invaluable and that are to serve future generations. In the end, I would refer to those politicians, politicians for reasons why they don't have politics, they promote violence, they promote hanging, they promote murder, and lately, and almost always the murder of the first man of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. They promote a lie, they promote a non-letury, they promote manipulation. The opposite is SNS, our president, Aleksandar Vukic, who promotes truth, work and result. It will be recognised by citizens in the elections and this yellow den in various aggregate states will return to the past never to appear again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69196	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69197	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the town of Leskovac never had a concert space despite a very rich concert activity. The music school in our city, in addition to teaching activities, organizes concerts of distinguished artists, as well as LEDAMUS, Leskovac Music Days, and the International guitar festival. There is a camera orchestra in town, as well as a large number of ensembles dealing with artistic music and who would be the users of this space. The concert piano is located in the city hall of Leskovec, which now serves all concert activities. The "Stanislav Binski" music school has existed for 70 years and has brought out a large number of renowned artists and currently has 800 students with whom the results have been observed. Dear Minister, you made sure when you visited Leskovec that we had a project and a space with a 450-seat hall, as well as a summer garden and a hall within the building. We hope that the ministry, whose head you are at, will find strength and will and help to reconstruct and bring in the purpose of the concert hall, because by all parameters, you will agree, the town of Leskovac deserved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69198	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69199	Thank you. Dear Ministers, same after the amendment. You weren't there before, because I'm always talking about the problems and the things we need to deal with. I'm sure in the coming period you'll have the opportunity to visit southern Serbia. You've been to Leskovac and you'd do well to get to Srlig. Otherwise, it's a big thing that we now have within your ministry a project of "Towns in Focus" that we can provide funds for construction, construction, reconstruction of homes of cultures, cultural centres and that tomorrow these people can socialize, have better conditions and, normally, put more emphasis on cultural workers. Otherwise, for all of you here from the ministry, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens watching this session, I can say that in Svrlig 1279, there was a "Svrljski jevanje" held in the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, and was found in the village of Source, in the church of the Holy Trinity. It is another thing that is important for history and for the culture of our country of Serbia. So I'm saying that we always have to respect the small environments, because big people come from small backgrounds. Thank you, Minister, and I expect that in the coming period we will have a greater opportunity to help small communities, as is being helped by large centres. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69200	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69201	A rather broad topic and indeed there are places to discuss this bill in this way, but we certainly need to focus on what the obligations of the National Assembly and the RES ministry are when it comes to the state of Serbia, the Serbian people, and especially when we have in mind what the status of the Republic of Serbia in the world is today. As much as you in power boast that we are the leaders of this or that, the fact is, it is clear to all of us that Serbia is not very popular when it comes to the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and, indeed, to countries, individual EU countries, in particular, some of these bodies that are called the EU. In this context, we must make an additional effort to show and protect our cultural identity, which means both our national identity and our tradition and everything that is not really present today in Serbia. Today in Serbia, unfortunately, there are some people and some organizations, etc. They're all over the place about goose, the spoons, the pans, the tree and the Serbian folklore, and so on, and that's what we have to keep as part of our national identity. When we talk about this, of course aware of the fact that a large number of national minorities live in Serbia and that they should also be able to best express their national identity when it comes to culture and tradition and, let's say, the best example perhaps or a good example is a Slovak national minority who in an extremely good way cultivates its tradition and where we might be able to often and look up to them. What do we allow ourselves? We allow ourselves that today's Cyrillic letter is rare in Serbia, rare in Belgrade. You pass through Belgrade, look at how many percent, I could say promila, in various names of various service centers, facilities, places, however it's written with Cyrillic. It's mostly Latin, mostly foreign words like some part of us are ashamed of who we are and what we should promote in both Serbia and the world. Among other things, we should thus show that the people are worthy of respect. We have tradition, we have history. It is absolutely certain that we can stand in line if not at the head of European countries that can be raised and praised for what we have and instead of rearing us, then we finance from the budget of the Republic of Serbia an NGO that is in the middle of Belgrade organised by the Cyprus festival "Mirdita" and it is indeed something incredible and, let's say, called the festival, even the culture minister, but not this present one. You're not. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible, as it's inadmissible that in Kolarco on the day that in Srebrenica those businessmen in Srebrenica in Potocari are building some fair, you here allow the Kolarco to be held, the same group to maintain something where they promote that genocide happened in Srebrenica. So there are things that are absolutely inadmissible, whoever it is, whether or not the marines were present and supported. Yes, and Marinika Tepic is one of the MPs who are together, I think there are both Ceda Jovanovic and Jerkov, who signed a petition to, or initiative to give the National Assembly a resolution that genocide took place in Srebrenica. That's what we need to talk about and what we need to stamp, it's much more dangerous and much worse than what the marines at the conference and in the hall of the congregation are going to call one or that minister a name or such and involve him in an affair, etc. We are here to protect the common interest, to protect the national interest. You see, it's like a nation that's been hit by a crow and alas, and we're not the ones who are going to fight for our national being, and we have what, then no one else is going to. We can't be assimilated into this kind of globalist mass, into something that needs to be something that we should be proud of. We can be both modern and technologically equipped and technologically educated, but we must never neglect what we were born with and where we were born and where we should live generations and generations after us. It's also your obligation, Minister, and all the governments and every MP here, and that's why I'm not very happy that people here have begun to defend themselves individually, by name and by name, and not by defending what is principle and what is truly a national interest. A lot of time has been spent discussing media and media freedom. A colleague of the government warned me. He says – you said RTS is the only service in Serbia. Of course, I didn't mean it, and thank you for seeing my colleague. I know that there are three public services in Serbia, that unfortunately for the one in Pristina, we have no influence on its editorial policy at the moment, but on the one based in Novi Sad and this one in Belgrade and that we should influence, even from here in public word, but I was only talking about the public service of RTS because he is the central medium and he is the one who is actually leading the policy that is in the good part anal. It may be too strong to say anti-Serbian, but it certainly is, in many segments similar to that N1 television that is definitely anti-Serb. That's what we here without shame and without dawn should say. We don't insult anyone personally, by one or by this basis, but I'm sorry, what ours is, we need to defend it in every step and in every way possible. When we talk about these media, let's talk about the relationship of the media to the National Assembly. We are the most legislative body, the Constitution has regulated us so. How do the media treat us? They're making fun of individual MPs or not treating us at all. "Politics" is the only daily paper that writes about what the National Assembly is doing, what happens at the National Assembly sessions. Whatever, they're doing it from their own corner today, but they're publishing what's being said here, at least what they think is bad. "News," if they publish something from the National Assembly, they write on the fourth page what a minister said. Sorry, that's not interesting. The minister is here to tell the MPs what he has to say, and the public is interested in what the MPs will say as commendation or as an attempt to tell the minister. I guess that's the point and that should be the point and the information when it comes to the media. The rest of the media written doesn't care what happens in the National Assembly. How can RTS have anything more than the National Assembly on the day that the National Assembly is sitting here on the Second Program? It's a civilization fluid we fought for 30 years ago. Now RTS comes to mind, they say – they have an appointment ahead. So you have three programs. Go to some other programs, those sports events, and I don't know what that is. What we're saying here is of state interest. It doesn't have to be what I'm saying right now that nobody in Serbia likes it, but it's important that everyone who wants to watch the National Assembly hears what Serbian radicals think in this particular case when it comes to culture and when it comes to what's on the agenda today, of course other parties, because as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we express the exclusive position of the SRS. It's 30 years since the founding of the SRS. Today in Batajnica, the first Motherland Congress of the SRS was held 30 years ago, and we can really praise how much we contributed to this cultural work as a political party. We, for example, have announced all the reprints of "The Great Serbia" that no one has ever published before. We have published the works of Jasa Tomic, together with the works of Sima Milutinovic Sarajlija, together with the works of Milica Stojadinovic of Srpkinje, together with the works of Laza Kostic. I'd like someone else to boast and say, "We've done more." So that is, among other things, the role of political parties, not just collecting points for the day to vote, and I suppose all of this should also affect the day to vote. Thank you, ministers and your ministry, for helping to publish the pieces of Momir Krsmanovic, extremely important, you certainly saw, you would not have funded if you had not seen what you were funding. Now, we, for example, have funded a good part, too, of Momir Krsmanovic's works. That's our history, that's something we need to promote, that the people must see and know. Unfortunately, we spoke to the minister yesterday, your colleague Sarčević, and he agreed, he knows, unfortunately, our children today finish primary school, they don't know how to read, they don't read, they don't know how to read. Now, we have to do everything and in this way promote our culture, tradition, to get as much awareness as possible, first of all, of every young man. It's not just work and pay. Yes, it's alive, but believe me, we have to devote a lot more time and you ministers have really left quite a mark when it comes to culture and you're one of the few ministers in the last 20 years who recognized culture, and if they weren't, I repeat what I've already said, concerts and exhibitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69202	Thank you. Mr Vukosavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69203	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, unfortunately I have to agree with your assessment that there are individuals, groups in our society, who, as you said, quote themselves - snivelingly, express themselves about goose, about spoons, about other symbols of the identity of this people. You know, fortunately, the number of such individuals and groups is not great. On the other hand, when someone wants to look uneducated, dishonest, and stupid in public, it's hard to get in his way. I don’t know why it reminds me of the people’s saying “a donkey should never be called, he should always answer himself. ” So these phenomena simply exist, they are proof that society is basically healthy with this relationship, and that there are some antibodies that have their ideological and other negative character classifications, morals or understanding of history that is not the problem of society itself, but of these entities. Fortunately, there are no large numbers of them, but it is good to know that there are and it is good to observe their activities so that this malignancy does not penetrate deeper into the social tissue and into the consciousness of a generation. Secondly, I will repeat that from the day before yesterday, I understand the motives and attitudes that you have expressed in this one small part, but I will stress that the Ministry of Culture and Information simply so that the public may know it, although I think it is known, in no way directly or indirectly, did not participate in the financing of the festival that you mentioned and which is called "Good Day" or "Mirdita" or whatever it is called. I don't want to get into evaluations of the intention, purpose, purpose and content of such performance or event, but the Ministry of Culture simply has nothing to do with it. The fact that, according to the media, two cultural institute directors in Serbia appeared at the event, there are such facts in themselves, perhaps it should be kept in mind, in some ways, in some circumstances, but also the Ministry of Culture does not care about where all cultural MPs appear at what events. So we simply have nothing to do with the event and the participants and the attitudes expressed at such a gathering, and nothing to do with it. And finally, most importantly, I believe that it's clear to everyone, regardless of the political differences in finesse or other aspects, that creating one cultural pattern is the work of whole generations. The Serbian cultural pattern, designed in a broader sense, is not an opportunity to elaborate such views, but it has been threatened by the good and bad aspects of the idea of Yugoslavia between the two wars, the different aspects of the existence and operation of Tito Yugoslavia and the policy and cultural policy that has been implemented and the simple reality we see today, I am talking about the area of culture because it has a part of the reflex from the past for decades, often and negative, so to express and change, i.e. the restoration of a stable cultural pattern and cultural policy is not a business of one, two or three years, but simply a strategic challenge that must be based on the principles of cultural development strategy and a solid social definition. Of course, the principles of cultural policy must be inclusive, they must include other peoples who live with us here and national minorities and every dominant nation that takes care of its neighbours and fellow Americans, a different cultural identity or similar or more different, actually taking care of these principles and takes care of itself. This principle of respect for other things, i.e. diversity, is one of the virtues of modern societies, but of course, the basic thing and the fundamental strategic thesis is that national cultural identity must be preserved, not only preserved from the past, but simply enriched for those contents of the highest quality that present generation can add to that cultural heritage, and that it is thus preserved and promoted to the generations that will come after us. I believe there is one very clear awareness in our society about this. So I expect and hope that the strategy of cultural development that affirms these basic principles will soon be adopted in force, because simply without strategy and not us, but anyone who is in a position to decide on improvisations that may result from an ad hoc political moment, etc. which should not be questioned in terms of culture and long duration in the area of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69204	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69205	I want first of all because of the public, and also because of the minister who has no conflicting opinions, when it comes to what we are saying Serbian radicals, to remind the SRS in my political programme, I said just 30 years ago with certain innovations at point 94 talks about culture. Speaking on more than one side, I'll only read two segments that I think are very important to culture at the state level. Culture as a constant rise in the degree of general education, development, improvement and enriching of all fluids of the human spirit, material, social and spiritual culture and way of implementation according to ethical and social norms has special significance in SRS policy and this could be freely said – in politics, in this sphere of state policy. It is necessary to encourage and support the comprehensive development of cultural action, and that, ministers, without imposing ideological, political or personal interests, is managed exclusively by the parameters of the values of the works themselves, i.e. the creators themselves. Now, this is something that is permanent, which has nothing to do with this or that authority. This way you have to access culture. Here, just one more sentence. The cultural tradition of the Serbian people is a unique civilization based on which awareness of its own identity has been formed. The cultural fluids of the Serbian people expressed through spiritual, material and social values fall to the very top of the world's cultural heritage. The cultural fluid of the people must be nurtured and preserved, and that is the core of the policy of the SRS. That's about the core of what I was talking about on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group today. We must fight in every place. You know, you go on vacation to Greece, you'll have a Greek evening, you'll go to Spain, you'll have a Spanish evening, and here we have to have a Serbian evening, Serbian culture, folklore, geese for those who come to Serbia. Well, that's probably how we who forgot it, not us, but some who forgot, will start doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69206	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69207	Thank you. In essence, Mr. Minister said and about everything I would have to say. I really don't have a conflicting opinion, but several times a event here is mentioned under the same name, and we MPs have to have an obligation to be precise. The festival is not called Merdita, the festival is called "Merdita – Good Day". There is good intentions in that title, but I agree that good intentions are not respected. The hand provided between theatre art in Pristina and Belgrade, cultural ties between the two nations would be very welcome, because eventually we will remain in those areas, neither the Shipari will disappear from Kosovo, and perhaps the culture is the place of excellent integration. The bad thing about this is that the cultural merger is not attended by a Pristina theatre, a Serbian scene that has been expelled from Pristina, which is now in Gracanica, is in refugee and actors all over Serbia. If under "Mirdita, good day" the festival was to bring together the Serbian scene and the Albanian scene of the Pristina theatre, I would be in favour of supporting the festival, even asking the minister to open it, because it would be the return of the Serbian scene that created the National Theatre in Pristina to its boards and home. That would be real co-operation. But you're right, this is a festival on the one hand of Serbia, and on the other hand, an attempt to show a certain culture or a certain created, made-up statehood of the other side, and thus the organizer of the Centre for Cultural Decontamination, which I probably think is worse than you, behind a good title, and perhaps an idea that could live in the future, is a major accident. I'll just tell you that our great actor Miki Manojlovic tried to make a show of "Romeo and Juliet" with a Pristina theatre and almost caught in that big trap. Fortunately, the Albanian side's condition was that no Serbian actor from Kosovo should play in the play, so the right intentions were kind of revealed. But that doesn't mean that we should give up many artists who make up part of Serbian culture, one Beki Fehmi is the top name of the Serbian theatre and he never left here and his sons and all that's about his art is part of Serbian culture, Serbian art. In these relationships, if the future were to be built, perhaps one day they would come to a happier relationship between the two peoples. On the other hand, you're really right, this is only a promotion at the expense of the other side, but the minister is right about this Ministry and this government has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69208	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69209	It has so much to do with the allocation of funds from the budget to some NGOs involved. We, the Serbian radicals, participated in the protest when it was this so-called The festival and we saw what it all looked like and how many police provided all those who made fun of each other, I'm not talking about those Shiptars who came, I'm talking about those Serbs after they were born who met them here. It is indeed something that is inappropriate and there is no talk that we can achieve by forcing the festival "Mirdita, good day" if and so, by forcing the festival that we will achieve something good for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or something good for those who do not want, who actually think that Kosovo is a state. We certainly have to do everything, I'll go back to the public service, it's a much bigger problem, you know, that festival of some of the chiptarian and Serbian freaks, and these some of the chiptarians call artists, actors, whatever, it's this single deal that we're stamping against and who we'll always be against. But we have on RTS, the television we pay, when they speak in the national diary, they say -- the government of Kosovo, the prime minister of Kosovo, in Kosovo, so there is no longer any such thing. Kosovo, not so-called Government, not so-called. Prime Minister. There's the Kosovo Assembly. We pay for it, people. It is something that I suppose should enter into the ears of the people and then simply become normal and once it appears, God forbid, and we hope that no one among the Serbs will ever show up who will sign the recognition of this false state, but from this medium that is paid out of the budget and which we pay individually from our pockets, serves every day the state of Kosovo, the Parliament of Kosovo, the Government of Kosovo, the President of the Government of Kosovo, etc. That on public service, that shouldn't even occur, let alone happen. That's what you tell them when you're setting up budget funds for them. Say, "Here, that's why you won't get another penny." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69210	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69211	Thank you. There is no promotion of culture, no cultural policy, no cultural pattern without redefining and promoting the right system of values. All of what we today see and judge in society as negative phenomena, it is all unfortunately the result of decades of cultural neglect. We are not from the early 1990s to today, the system of values has been devastated to this extent, that we, as a society, have never seriously dealt with this system of values. There's no education without the right system of values. There's no culture without respect, no respect, no diversity. We always tend to fix and correct someone else, rarely when we look at ourselves. We won't get better until we're better ourselves, until we're responsible and measure every word we say in public space, starting with this room here and anywhere, and even in our micro-centres, in our families, with our friends. As long as we don't raise responsibility for the spoken word to the highest possible level, we can't promote any real values or culture. Then when you look at it and the media are as they are because the government is one surface and the system of values is a key word that we have to deal with if we want to respond to everything that I've talked about and in the principle debate, which is the cultural needs of all citizens of Serbia. We need to promote the right values, and then we need to bring culture back and bring it back to every single, literal citizen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69212	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69213	Just a few sentences. I'm glad we have different opinions like this, but in the end, it's about the same cultural values. It is true that we need to determine what cultural values these are, and above all, moral values. I must stress, when it comes to the national identity of the Serbian people, but not only in Serbia, but throughout the world, that we didn't even have the information in how many states, where, how many of our people live. That was the problem. We now advocate the unity of the total Serbian cultural space, but not only of the Serb people, but of the national minorities. That's what's very important. If we are looking in Romania for 16,000 Serbs, rights, not only national but also cultural, it must be provided here, as we do. By the way, let me say, starting with Austria, 300,000 Serbs. Up to Austria about 70,000 Serbs, Australia 70,000 Serbs, not to list other countries, and a total of two million is in diaspora. In all, in 16 countries, I think, now that I don't count them, two million Serbs. We're trying to study national identity in all these countries. In order to achieve this, it is not enough that the Matica is only working, but also those countries where Serbs are as national minorities and by the same reciprocity, we are in a way ensuring in the country of origin, as we have done in the last seven, eight years more and more, especially in Vojvodina. Have we reached a certain level? We did. Do we need to further improve national identity and minorities and peoples, etc? Of course it is. But when it comes to cultural institutions, then it's cultural institutions, institutions where not only our people's national treasures are stored, but other peoples. Studying and persuasion culture is an extraordinary thing. That's what the ministry's been doing for the past seven, eight years is extremely good. Is that enough? Of course not. We'll all be together to make it to a certain level. It is not good that where there is a Serb national minority in other countries, we are constantly saying that they are at risk where they are not, for example. in Romania. I think it has an envious level, but also Romanians need to be provided with an enviable level as it is in the Serbian queen. I don't want to mention other countries. Hungarians, for example. But not enough is just one or two, but all of Serbia's national minorities, and we're pretty much taking care of it. We've reached a certain level. Is that enough? It's not enough. Did other countries in Europe and beyond provide certain national rights to the Serbian people? Some have reached a level, some have not. I think it's a good thing we've defined, as counterpart Dragas says the unity of Serbian cultural space. That's good. In order to achieve this required under number one stability. I believe you'll all agree to that. What does that mean? I'll quote the president of the state back three days. That is why the quote "and that our children do not die, do not go into conflict, that we do not lose any territory and that no one declares us independence, nor is it detached from us, as was the case in the course of Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic" finished the quote. That's the point. So, is that easy? It's not easy. Whether it takes a lot of effort not only to top the state, but to take every single individual, cultural worker and the one in the local community and at the level of the Republic, whatever we want. It is true, I agree with my fellow opposition parties that the parties should also study cultural identity and the Serb people, but also the minority, as they do, as colleagues have studied. That's what SNS does. That's what the radical party's been doing, and it's working now. It is true that we need to take account of culture and persuasion of our own people, but also where our people are a national minority, in distant Australia, for example. From Australia, America, so here we are to our neighboring countries. Our space was in a war conflict. We need, ladies and gentlemen, stability, what the president said and the pedagogy of peace. I was saying that yesterday. During education in curricula and programs, but also what colleagues and colleagues yesterday said that we redefine curricula and programs and textbooks really not to write for profit, excuse the alleged signs of some kind of money, but that people take it from the profession. So, stability number one, pedagogy of peace at every step. Furthermore, we have defined the unity of cultural space. And that's good. Now, when we ensure the stability and economic improvement of the country, as we now have four wholes, over four GDP, but to connect to yesterday's education. If we had a quality frame if we knew back 10, 15 years our students digitized we'd have 8% today. That's what education is all about. This means the update of the curriculum, starting with history, through economy, etc. Imagine, yesterday, Professor. Radonjic, today he presents, he wonders some kind of digitisation. Well, the professor of economics, the economy of handing over gentlemen, and on dual education, he says, I'm not going to say, etc. Professor of Economics. It's a model one that reaches the doctor of science. People don't understand. He doesn't understand what this is about. It is important to criticise for some small personal interests, etc. And it's signed as a university professor, and it's not in a political party they say. Well, you can't do that, Professor. Only as a professor can you sign it. So now let's get back to this part. I think it's quite okay for political parties to promote their actions, let me say from the drafts of each political party, their party champions, but also national minorities, as some of the more minor ones do. We have indeed been fighting for it for the last eight years, but we are also looking in the unity of the Serbian cultural space, that others are also working towards our people. When we talked about the archives yesterday. The archives are not only institutions where the valorisation and categorization of the archival building, together with donors and users etc., cultivates national treasures not only of our people but also of other peoples and peoples starting from municipal archives to republican etc. Let's say it's a national treasure and a world treasure. That's the point. When I wrote a paper for Novi Pazar from 1945 to 1947, I wrote not only about Serbs, but also about Muslims, or Bosniaks, as they now say. That's what they know who reads magazines. That's the point. When we talk about the Serbian people, we study, we also have to deal with neighbouring peoples because they see through culture and language and science, etc. We can't know the history of one nation and the other can't know. That's very interesting. And by verticals, I underline this, we must study the history of our people in verticals. That means, from the old age, and archaeologists would say earlier, to this day, but also other peoples, and the persuasion of history, both of them, we will never close the process. What's very important is culture and science. If we say that one truth has no science, gentlemen. Science is an open process. I can say to this day, the oldest seal of Prince Stoymir, but perhaps now, here's my colleague, not to say his name, sits in the Serbian Archives, found that someone before. So, we move, we seal that, for a hundred and a few years, the existence of a Serbian state and so on. Or the oldest office on the Cyrillic charters in Dubrovnik since the 13th century. So we never close the process, and so do culture, we always open and we have to be open. Serbia has indeed achieved a certain part in this sense, especially in recent years, Mr. Minister, but it is never enough, that national minorities do not misread us. There is always a minority in the world with a greater sense of threat and a Serb minority greater sense of threat in neighbouring countries. It's psychological, it's perception in the end, always a minority regardless of nationality, that we're constantly at risk. Our minorities who are not present today feel threatened, so they don't come here to the Assembly because they want to be actors and they don't want a program. They're a minority, but they have to have a program, they think they don't have any electoral conditions. We'll always be better at it, but the feeling of a minority is always a feeling. Come on, as much as you want a lot of minorities and she'll have that feeling, but there are criteria, what you said, certain international ones. I think we're doing well in that sense. As for cultural identity, the unity of the Serbian people, I must say, is that enough? It's not. But I'm glad to know today in 13 countries that there are two million 31 thousand Serbs, and we didn't know that for five years. When it comes to cultural heritage and so on. I'm not talking about how materially it is, because you ministers talked about it yesterday, not only here in Serbia, but also in neighbouring countries. We have an institute Serbian in the neighbouring country one, we have problems now, but it exists, it's established, but we have a magazine. That's the point. Is that enough? No, but it's not enough for a Hungarian minority to reach the level. There's more to be sought here, like us in Hungary and so on. Reciprocity, it's hard to reach, but we're taking care of it. Let's fulfill ours, we have the right, what President Vukic often says, you're looking for others. I think Serbia really takes care of that. But what you're going to do is we're a lot of people, so that feeling of minority always goes to the majority, it's in human psychology, there's our responsibility greater. Our responsibility, but also the obligation of minorities to fulfill, most in other countries to our minority. That's the point. Does it work? That's another thing. Last sentence, for all of this, the frames are needed. Do we have them? The minister is in line with the law of one, the other and the third, they're extremely well-founded laws, we don't have enough. Are we making certain efforts? We're doing it. Is there enough isolation for culture 1%? It's not. But I underline this, which you have underlined in the reasons of the law, if the funds are evenly, from the municipal archives to the republican and the library, we distribute, and this is very important, dedicated, e, we have problems here. There are cultural leaders that are important. That's why the conditions for selecting each director are very important. Because we had a situation -- it's important to be a director and to have some financial benefits. There's no more of that. Yes, thank God, but let's keep this to a minimum. We fight to make it less, to do this work out of love. As a teacher of my entire life, I've been pushing for a sentence -- there's no bad student for me as a educator, there's bad conditions in which someone has to create them and a bad professor. He can't be a bad college student if he's doing his best. He has the right to tell Professor Atlagic, I don't know. I experienced in my first year of study, in history, that they couldn't add and subtract, and I needed for historical chronology multiplication, division, etc. He has the right to come to college without knowing. I told them-- you're right, gentlemen students, that you don't know. I have no right as a professor to let you go, I don't mean grade, to bring you in another year without teaching you that. Now, that's the point. It means loving your job. Then we'll get the students, and then the parents will figure it out. The important thing is, yesterday you said everything, when it comes to education, you should love the job you're doing. Unfortunately, if we all do, let the other judge it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69214	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're going to continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69216	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Minister, in your work so far, here's almost the end of this government summons, what's good we didn't notice when it comes to the area of culture and resources that you're leading no underestimating relationship with anyone. That's good because all your predecessors since 2000 have had one attitude that fits that, above all, anti-Serbian, pro-Western policy and that creates one mile. Here, that and colleague Markovic, probably as a born Belgrade citizen, can see that someone as a circle of two. They have exclusivity, because you have been in the affairs of culture before and before this, and are acting that way, disdaining primarily the Serbian people and not just the members of Serbian nationality, but everyone else who thinks otherwise. Well, they're some nobles, so they have an exclusive, not to mention really those names like Srbanovic, that Gorčina, Dragojevic and the play of those characters who really showed so much in their performance, above all hatred for their own people and for their vital state and national interests. But what happened to the Serbian Progressive Party is that it is exactly similar, according to the character lines for certain things, to place the person as your predecessor, and I mean former Minister Tasovac, who is also the director of the Belgrade Philharmonic which came out with a scandalous slogan a few years ago in your advanced government and plaque – not for everyone. In order for Serbian citizens to know what it was about, they wanted to say, and they put in one part of the plant, not to mention it now, which suggests that someone is uneducated, that they don't understand what culture is, etc. It's really amazing to think of something like that. In order for this to happen in the future, it is strictly necessary to control the activities of those receiving money from the budget, from the government level of the Republic of Serbia. A lot were said by counterpart Radeta and other Serbian Radical Party MPs about RTS, as well as the Belgrade Philharmonic and all other cultural institutions. Those martyrs, I mean those really slimy, miserable, I don't know what to call them, the characters from that play of those pro-Western agents and everything that our people and those who live in Vranja, Pirot or, I don't know, where in Bosilegrad they don't know what Serbian culture is. What they don't know is that the immaterial cultural treasure of Serbia, such as the UNESCO list protects the Serb fame that only we Serbs have, the Serbian stake, which knows 99% of the population to play, as singing from screams that are likely to be on UNESCO's list, the Kosovo Union, the Belmush, who keeps mentioning here, are as well, but not some others, are not some old craftsmen. Not to mention, because there's almost, I think, over 30 elements of immaterial cultural heritage and cultural goods of the greatest importance. What we need is that, because the circuit that pervades the entire national being is like a national game, a round in three, Moravac, etc., such as the Serb glory that unites our community, our spirituality, what we have been since the German era, like all this other one that needs to be found on the list, so we now need to help, Mr. Minister, these environments that they have, in addition to this immaterial, and benefit in the right sense of the word. That these women of knitted stockings who will continue to knelt, those women in the Stapar who are known for the shepherding carpets, those pyrocan women who have an extremely valuable trade in their hands in the production of pyrotic carpets, therefore, that the state allows them to do so. You can't just get out of your portfolio, but there are others, because such a budget for culture, which is what it is, is to preserve our national identity. And not only Serbian, but there are also members and other national entrailers, such as naive painting in Kovacica and such other projects, in order to really present it to future generations. Anything else that any dinar means to finance, and if it has an anti-Serbian connotation, we're extremely against it. So, the future government must also make sure that everything that is yet to be on UNESCO's list and that has yet to be promoted through a cultural and tourist project, however you wish, is promoted as the most bright tradition of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69217	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Mr. Markovic, do you want a replica? (Alexander Markovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69218	Thank you, Chairman. I would also like to thank the previous speaker, Mrs Jovanovic, for giving me the opportunity to reply to the name and name in the context of the Belgrade-born, if I understand that. Yes, I have no reason to hide that I am a born Belgrade citizen, but that in no way reduces my love for every part of Serbia. So I love every part of Serbia as much as any part of the countries in the environment where Serbs live. So I like the parts of the former Republika Srpska, as well as parts of Republika Srpska, as well as parts of those territories that do not belong to Republika Srpska, but to the Federation of BiH, where Serbs live in the absolute majority. I like the parts of our people, which are located in Montenegro, as well as in Macedonia and in any other country in the region, and where Serbs live. I could agree with the previous speaker in the assessment that some former authorities have extended and promoted exclusively anti-Serbian projects in culture, promoted and extended and funded exclusively anti-Serbian films and all other projects, and that it was the ruling ideology of these regimes, the regimes depicted in what we call the Dosmanian government, which ruled from 2000 to 2012, and where, as you would say, the "mainstream" was that in the main media, therefore, it dominates this narrative in which Serbs are always described as bad guys, as "bad guys", where you could just read or watch about some alleged Serbian crimes and all the things that could lead to the conclusion that Serbs are the only ones responsible for the wars that took place in the 1990s and all that is so bad, right? But also be fair, so admit that since 2012, that is, from the moment the Serbian Progressive Party assumed responsibility for the exercise of power, the situation has been significantly improved in this field as well. And she's really improved. So, they don't make anti-Serbian films, lately movies with national themes dominate, movies that send a clear, patriotic and patriotic message, and there's really a lot of such examples, and I hope that there will be more and more in the future. This is my intensities to the Ministry of Culture, to deal in the future with more cultural content that contains this national note and the patriotic note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69219	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69220	Mr. Markovicu, these Western agent NGOs that are well networked and that we keep mentioning here are in the service of those and those who declare themselves to be something special. That's why I apostropheated you and purposely that you have a replica and that I can move on with you, because every normal man, every patriot, every patriot, is normally going to think about all Serbs wherever they live. You know, for us Serbian radicals, Ojkaca, who is also a candidate for UNESCO's list, is something that is the brightest tradition. The Snake Union, Mr. Minister, which Serbs from Republika Srpska have also managed to put on UNESCO's list, a truly beautiful handiwork that cannot say that beauty to be described, but they are disgusted by all of it, those you call upon all the time, where you are, that you do not come. Believe me, Mr. Minister, if the pro-Western dossovic here the opposition was scarred in the hall, they would be disgusted by what we promote as the most bright Serbian values, the Serbian tradition, because they only know how to crash, saying that nothing is right in this country, that Serbs are like this, like this. I also mentioned, I don't want to make him an ad, that actor from Goran Markovic's movie, who says -- well, Serbs are destructive, I don't know what kind of monsters in the Balkans, or this Branislav Lecic. Don't forget that sentence from the movie "Holy Georgia Kills Azdhau", when he says so entirely in his insane enthusiasm -- Serbs are at war because they're crazy. So we have to make a clear distinction in this country who they are, and who everyone else is who respects and loves their people and their country and who want to promote it that way. What bothered me, Mr. Minister, I've been watching you, you're really a man doing that job in the field of culture and information. There, you have come before the end of this term with these amendments to the law that we have objections to, but I see that you do not deny anything that is important to the Serbian national being, but you are standing in the Serbian Government, in front of you Zorana Mihajlovic and she says – next year we will... She's the minister of traffic, construction, infrastructure, what you gave her, directly in the service of the American Embassy. She created the Bechtel project, which costs Serbia 300 million more. Instead, it announces what will be on the UNESCO list and what Serbia will do this year, mentioning exactly what I was just saying, the pyrotic carpet, the hitchhiker, and I don't know if she mentioned anything else third. It must be known in this country and that all the activities they do and all the NGOs and media that are in their service and all the plays they have, all their performances, where they are openly muddying the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69222	You think he's... Here, I'm finishing up Mr. Marinkovic, because you have the opportunity to talk a lot about such things on one television, especially about them. You think it's only activity when they're talking about what's legitimately right against your SNS' official policy. No, what they do is more than that, psychological war in the right sense of words, against this country and against this people and with their appearance in the status of some free artists, they are these, they are them. No, they are in the Corps of all those who do not wish well for Serbia and the Serbian people and the SRS, here, and on this day, when we mark 30 years of our existence, openly with them, in the true sense of words, leading such verbal conflicts and all that branding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69223	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Replica was reported by MP Aleksandar Markovic and also by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69224	You gave it to me first, after all? I think you should have given the Minister your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69225	I know the procedures, Mr. Markovic. Here you go. By procedure, you have the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, again, I could agree with the previous speaker in the assessment that this part of the opposition that boycotts parliament's work has, for a full year, been growing that animosity, and they don't hide that animosity towards everything that is national, according to everything that is patriotic, according to everything that represents patriotism, and we've said it a few times. At the very least, they're not hiding it. So that's their view, that's their political attitude. As legitimate as he is, it is legitimate and my right to disagree. So, they insulted them here from the congregation benches many times and the sprawls and that stepmouse you mentioned and the Serbian wheel and everything that resembles what's original, what's healthy, what's patriotic, what's benevolent. So it's just their thing and their policy and I don't want to get into it. On the other hand, the government in which the dominant role is played by the SNS, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is trying to affirm and promote exactly the opposite of them, which is to promote healthy patriotism, what Nikola Selakovic said a few days ago, enlightened patriotism. What we need to seek is to cultivate our sacred history, to cultivate all of those fluids that we have in our light history, to cultivate patriotism, to cultivate patriotism as something that is healthy, as something that is normal and as something that is necessary. In that sense, my heart is really full. I am, among other things, a member of the Assembly Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region. When we go to the countries of the region, when we talk to our Serbs and in Macedonia, even in Albania, in Montenegro, in all countries of the region, my heart is a lot when I hear that the Serbian government can also support financially and help the projects of the Serb people in the countries in the region, and such examples are really a lot. I'm really happy with that. I appeal to the ministry to work further in this regard in the future, and for those who are ashamed of the belongings of the Serbian people, I really have nothing to say in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69227	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, has the right to reply. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69228	Here, in the context of this story so far, which is, in fact, related to this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, replicating Mr Markovic, as well as to give a suggestion to the minister or future minister of government, and I believe that the SRS will also gain great confidence in the citizens. We do everything to show them what members of the SRS know, but to know that the voters who will vote for us, that we are very consistent back 30 years in all aspects of our political, social, cultural life and that all the fundamental values that we promote are actually being shown as real and that they come out of the framework of some day policy, but that they really leave one clue. What we did by printing the collected works of our greats, which we mentioned today, we launched more than 20 years ago, or more, the journal "Serbian Freedom Thought", where many scientists in the field of culture, in the area of history, politics published their Separats, their visions and their views on the most important issues for our people and for our country. But as far as this is concerned, why did we intervene here? Maybe it was strange for you to discover and create. We felt it was unnecessary for those two words to stand, but this second part of point 2) of general interest in culture includes the preservation and representation of the Serbian culture and culture of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. When you say this, someone will think it's just some media presentation or printing some brochures. No, we have to, if we want to return this wheel that the Serbs have, and the growling, and the singing from the screams, and the flute and the gays, all if we want to return it back to our villages and our cities, then we have to help those institutions of culture, and in villages, Mr. Minister, there used to be 1500 and more of those homes. You pulled the parallel nicely when you said as a man who is obviously, like me and all my colleagues, such a definition, how they wanted the Broz Communists to imagine after World War II, with all those calls to Joseph Broz and the five-pointers at the head. No, it shouldn't be presented to the people anymore, because these homes are ruined because these informants didn't want to take care of them and the Serb village. Twenty years, you know, or 15 years before your authority, that was a lot, and before that, war and sanctions, but to return it to the heart of the Serbian people, by allowing them to have more of these manifestations, these country choirs and all that, where what is already on the official UNESCO list will be promoted publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69229	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now the word is Mr. Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69230	Thank you. I am pleased that in this high home there is an opportunity sometimes for such sensitive and strategic issues, such as culture, to speak, so I would just briefly refer to your presentation, to the honourable folk's letters and to the presentation of colleagues Markovic. So, you mentioned some phenomena of social presence. The phenomenon of autoschuvinism is the present thing in our society. Serbia is not an isolated case. But I must say that in certain aspects of our recent history, such a phenomenon was more prominent than in some other periods and than in some other countries. So, autoskilling, as one special social but also psychological phenomenon, needs to be discussed and determined, but not just to talk, but to take certain concrete measures of cultural policy, in order to discourage these things from working. On the other hand, when it comes to the common cultural policy, what was said is true. With harsh simplifications, the tasks of those forces, such forces exist, I would not name them this time, the matter is complex and complicated historical, therefore, those forces that work against our interests, the interests of this people, have as one of the strategic goals, the first change of consciousness, and that change of consciousness is approximately, too, I have to simplify, because of the length of time to be exposed, it consists of everything that is allegedly Serbian, sagura on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia, and that everything that is not, is Serbian, but is not in Serbia's present state, being exposed to strong processes of culture and then transformation into another cultural form. That kind of thing is dangerous. A book has recently been published with us, I would not now like to advertise it, but "Cold War in Culture", it doesn't matter which author, or what, which speaks of how great forces in decades after World War II have understood and recognized the importance of a special war in the area of culture, where subtle transformations are being made in the consciousness of individuals, where, then, based on long duration, there is a change in large images and a view of the world. Just led by these reasons and some of these reasons, we signed in the Serbians, the symbolic place of our history, one agreement with Republika Srpska, with the Republika Srpska Ministry of Culture on the Serbian-cultural space. There were later on some of our sites and in our famous market of bad ideas and mean comments, questions like – so what is it, where are the concrete sustainable effects of such a move? Such things are not measured on a daily basis or on a monthly basis. After decades of misrepresenting some aspects of our cultural history and politics, it was important to start to raise awareness that there is a Serbian cultural space. This space exists among other peoples, it is not the privilege of our Serbian people, but political spaces, these are the areas where the laws and rules of a country at a given historic moment are limited political spaces and are called states. But these borders between countries, too, are often, more or less, changing over a long period of history, but cultural spaces are far more permanent than political borders. Therefore, when we speak now of the Serbian cultural space, it is the space of those where, during the long historical period, our people have left unquestionable clues to their material and immaterial cultural heritage. This space extends from St. Gora to Trieste and from Dubrovnik to Arad, Temisvar and St. Andreya. Why does it matter to know? Because in that space it would be important to run a unique cultural policy, precisely in the preservation of the tradition of language, letters, customs, identities and other things, and that this space feels in a cultural sense, I'm not talking about political sense. State borders, international contracts and other contexts that exist at the moment must be respected, but culture is an entity that lives and breathes beyond our standard daily notion of history and politics. And in this regard, our Cultural Development Strategy is also aimed at some of these issues. So we in the field of consciousness need to look at the overallity of the Serbian tradition, the Serbian longevity in history and the necessity of implementing a common cultural policy in all those areas where Serbs live. I believe that from year to year we will succeed as a society as well as as a state and as a people to advance these steps, as our cultural and historical consciousness, thanks to some other reasons again, has been subject to various challenges, shocks, tripping, decoding and various other attacks that have led, unfortunately, to the sometimes strengthened phenomenon of autoshyvinism and to all those malignant phenomena that can be recognized in society in this area. In any case, I think we are on a good path, because, of course, the awareness of some phenomena is a prerequisite for action in that direction, and I believe that in the vast majority of our society, and even in this National Assembly, regardless of political differences or daily political differences, there is a clear emphasis on the importance of the care of Serbian culture, where we must constantly, and I end up, keeping in mind that the process of culture is a very dynamic phenomenon that threatens identity issues and that the process of culture, as our countrymen at the time did not catalyze immediately in the border areas, but on the contrary stood a period of sunning, and then cataclysing. So in culture processes, similar phenomena exist. What we should be careful about is the opposite extreme, which is cultural single-centreism, which would lead to the hermeticity of a culture. Culture must have its own pro-pulsive spaces, it must breathe, there must be a space of cultural exchange and cultural currents, but of course, it must not endanger the basic identity principles of a reasonable cultural policy of a community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69231	The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69232	Mr. Minister, you have given me an excellent example now that I can further remind citizens of Serbia, as well as those who have never shown the trust of the SRS, as we observe the Serbian cultural space. You have now said – the limits of those who are now must be respected. Unfortunately, these borders in Serbia's cultural, national spiritual space, and these are the borders of a large Serbian state. And on this line Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica, here we have it in our SRS. So it's a complete ethnic and spiritual and cultural space of our people. We can't say now, I, who was born in Šumadia or Dragana, who is from Kruševac or counterpart Lukić from Bajana Basta – is now what exists there in Lica, Kordun, Banija, and what is specific to Serbian, it is out there somewhere. Our obligation as a representative of the Serbian people, unfortunately, is now an occupied part of Serbian territory, I mean Republika Srpska, I mean the position of Serbs in Serbia's Montenegro. The mafia government of Milo Djukanovic will tomorrow and the immaterial cultural treasure, which is authentically Serbian, take over itself. As they now seek to take away our saints, they will go one step further tomorrow. Right, Mr. Minister? Well, what we have and what we want to put on the UNESCO list, they're going to say it's ours. I can't say right now I don't care about that thing over there. No, it's all in common and it's our obligation to promote it. We all know in Serbia, there is no colleague Milija, he constantly promotes this as a Belmuž, the creation of Serbian kamak as a Serbian brand is also on the UNESCO list of immaterial cultural treasures, but also the cultural treasure of the Serb livanjski cheese, which the Ustasha attributed to themselves, and the authenticity of making that cheese, which is indeed the cultural and ethnic value of the region where they lived and banished by the Ustasha knife Serbs, comes from the Radite family. So there is much that we as a people have neither protected nor promoted enough that it is ours. We always have some excuses for things – there's no money, there's no time. It has to be, because if that's what our old man would say, when he's rocking, we're raising our kids, then we'll know that these guys from this Corps that you've been talking about now, in the future, like they don't have, but they won't have any chance of their values and that really and that reduced census being inaccessible with that Bupka pole, because it shouldn't be worth a single vote to trust him in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69233	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The right to replica has Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69234	Thank you. Now, since a lot of the last things we're talking about here in the session, as I hear from my colleague, I've been there before, and it's a good thing that everyone here, who comes from these environments, is that Kragujevac, is that Nis, is that Svrlig, is that Kruševac, we're always talking about our environments, where we come from, and it's normal, as they say in my neighborhood... I speak the way I learned before. Yeah, sometimes someone gets funny and my accent, my speech, but, how can I say, I speak for me and my end grammatically correct. So when someone on the side hears, when I'm talking and speaking in the tongue of a purposeful accent, a purposeful ending, sometimes it might be funny, but believe me, people, that's how we learned there. I'm here in the Assembly, when I'm here, always speaking with my accent and trying not to change my speech. Sometimes I'm funny when someone listens, because that's what we talk about. Otherwise, as I was saying earlier, for these manifestations, the organizations we're working on, the promotion of all these things is an invitation to come to us, to come to Svrlig, to come to us in Bela Palanka, Književci, to come to Sokobanju, to come to Niško Banja, to come to Kragujevac, to try out our specialties, to see our culture, to see our tradition, and, as they say, we from small municipalities have a history, we have history. As I said earlier, in 1297, a “Skreljska evangelist” was found. You can read that. I also gave the Gospel passages to our president, Mr. Vukic, when I was at his reception when he was elected president of Serbia. So I say once again -- big people come from small places and we can't all be born here in Belgrade or New Sad or Nis. We need to come from these small backgrounds, but we need to give these environments more attention, not only when we speak, but tomorrow, Minister, when the time comes for you to decide on this project "Towns in Focus 2020", give support, help those small environments, build objects, that in these facilities people can work, live and have an interest in all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69235	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69236	Dear People's Parliament, I completely agree with what you've said now. We have helped with the first part of your presentation, through competition or some projects, different types of activities related to the preservation of dialects, mainly in southern Serbia, and we are really on the side that dialects and orders are a wealth of one language, not a reason to look at it with a certain reserve, means the opposite. Through the "Towns in Focus" contest, we have, I think, defined nearly 600 million dinars in the last four years, and, where a large number is not enough, unfortunately, because I would like to help all, who have good projects, help the most different so-called, stressed, small environments, because when it comes to culture, there must be no large and small environments and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future. I welcome your initiative. If your community has a quality project... I can't at the session of the Assembly promise that some concrete project will be helped, because that would endanger the interest of other participants in the competition, but in any case every project that has been well done, which is quality and which local self-government has so far not been in a position to be laureate at that competition, I think these circumstances are very positive and encouraging, and that's all I can say about the competition at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69237	Thank you, Mr. Vukosavlevich. The word is Milija Miletic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69238	Thank you. I'm sure you from the ministry have an understanding of the small environments, and that was seen in the previous period. The problem of small environments is the lack of personnel, the lack of people who are of quality who know how to design these projects. And we know for ourselves that a few years ago we've been banned from employment, which is positive, and we need to stop... It is in our interest to work on the economy, the agriculture, to finance ourselves from real resources, but in these small areas we also need quality people. We have a lot of quality people out there who can't work now, work on pp contracts, work on one other way, but the bottom line is that it's not just Srlig, but it's all these small municipalities that are in southeastern Serbia or in other parts of Serbia that have the capacity, have history, have opportunities and need support. That's what we should all be working on. So I say: support for small communities, support for our villages, support for everything that has guarded and built our country for Serbia. The Serbian opaque was building Serbia. The Serbian opaque fed Serbia, and so it will be in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69239	Thank you. Now, according to the amendment, he has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69240	Dear Vice President, in order to clarify certain matters, it is true that the predecessors said that the phenomenon of autoshocking is extremely important. Now I'll tell you what's going on. It's the third term of total war. The first is war on the battlefield. The second is the attack on the civilian population and the third, please, I can stop if this is known, sabotage within what I was talking about. That term came about in 1916. Scientists know how and where – by attacking Paris. They've shut down the air alarm devices and it's so bombed, because it was domestic sabotage, domestic traitors, in other words, as our popular language puts it. That's one thing, isn't it? And they're very dangerous today. When I say that and about the war of the '90s, we have some things to clear up. Today at the press conferences, people who are responsible say that. Let me just say a few sentences. The former president of Serbia, Mr Tadic, during whom Croatia recognised Kosovo, only if it had said one sentence would Croatia never recognise it. Isn't that right, Mr. Tadic? You kept your mouth shut, and today you're accusing someone else. Mr Tadic, that is when you said this sentence – if Croatia recognises Kosovo and we will give it to the Republic of the Serbian Krajina. The Croats would never admit it, and Mr. Tadic is accusing others of what you should have done. It's your fault. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Of course it is. I'd like someone to stand up to it without talking about other things right now. It's an extremely important domestic sabotage. So, like in 1916 and now. I know exactly the names of people who were domestic saboteurs. We've already written scientific papers on it. Gentlemen of science and MPs, we can go through the magazines a little bit and see what's going on, right? Today they do their biographies for those who are guilty of war. Let me say, as one of the presidents of a neighbouring country accuses us here, his president said, I will now quote: "Croatia wanted war. We Croats wanted war, but would not get independence from Croatia. Dot. That's why we've been arming our troops behind every negotiation. Dot. So we Croats could have avoided war, but they would not have gained Croatia's independence," the quote concluded. I testified in The Hague about it. So, gentlemen, you see who started it, who wanted the war. Another piece of information that deliberately silences many domestically, let's say, saboteurs. What's that information? Some say -- a large country, the overseas, stood for Yugoslavia until 1992. They're lying. In September 1990, a large country passed the law, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for your information, in its Congress to bring down the SFRY. I'm asking the MPs. I kept quiet when they spoke for cultural reasons. So the law was passed. At the first point of the law says – we interrupt all diplomatic, economic and political relations with Yugoslavia. A second member of the law – but we will cooperate only with those republics, no more Yugoslavia, many of it pains, no more Yugoslavia, but those republics that have made the multi-party elections" finished quote. She brought Croatia and brought Slovenia, right, gentlemen scientists, who do you do science? That's true. So I can do it exactly when it's a date, it's already in scientific papers. So, Mr Tadic, I speak to him once again, because he swears these days, that he has only spoken a sentence and he was the president of the state, and Croatia has recognised Kosovo - that if the Croats recognise Kosovo as well as Serbia, headed by Serbia, he was, that he would recognise the Republic of Serbia's Krajina, the Croats would never recognise it. Right, scientists and politicians? I'd like someone to say it's not like that, if we didn't go into the next thing, because it would drag us out wide. He's not the only one. And there's Wolf Jeremic, a descendant. During him in 2008, all of this came into existence. Isn't that right, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah? He's not anywhere. I don't want to talk about Dragan Gilas, either. So he said in the US Embassy that famous sentence -- "I will stand for war," I quote, "Mladic is going to The Hague, and I will recognise Kosovo's independence". Is it true or isn't it? Let him stand before the citizens of Serbia and say, "Is he or isn't he?" He'll never do it again. You want me to list them now, I see that many pains, in turn I list for all those who today are accusing Alexander Vukic of it. There's 22 of them. Every quote, the day, the second they said they would recognise Kosovo and Metohija. And Bosko Obradovic, bowed his head at the American Embassy and Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, as much as you want. And Sasha Pranja, it's a special story, because the archeological structure, Mr. Minister, is at stake. I was that MP, one of the many in this majority who asked about the murder of Predrag Gojkovic, you know what the prosecution said to me, archive construction in the Belgrade Archives. I've got papers on it. You know what the Belgrade Archives said to me, and the President of the Commission, come on, guess who he was? Director of Branka Prpa Archives. Look, I don't have a problem saying this. You know what they said? The file's been destroyed. What order is this categorization, gentlemen, archive workers? Why do you think that file was destroyed? What does the D.A.'s office say I was talking to back then? You know what he answered, Prosecutor One, he doesn't even know what an archival building is. That's how our archives and archives are destroyed. That's why some of them were looking for their files to destroy them. Can't, gentlemen, copies exist. One of them, today he's gone in this high house, signed that the former president, 14 of them signed, seems to me, or 15 of them doesn't matter, only one of them didn't want to and kept him in the iron register all the time, iron. Only one didn't want that person holding up every time he came here to call. He said you could kill me, whatever I think of him, I don't think well of it, but I won't do it, copies throughout the archives. That's the point. History will tell us both about us and all in a certain way. As time passes, more and more truth comes to light. Condemning every crime should be done. When it comes to NGOs, the freezers have surfaced, and the truth is only now known. You know, because then the government did it and one interior minister did it. It is precisely known which service worked from an overseas country through which, as the tables were changed. So nothing is disputed, everything is revealed, nothing can be hidden. Neither my work nor the ones through which they are not to come, nor because they boycott the elections, which they do not like to do. I'll just finish, I'm glad we really care about the culture of the Serbian people, other peoples and national minorities. That's what we're gonna do. What I want to conclude with is a quote that the President of the Republic will quote, quote, "Now we have growth in the economy, we need to encourage it, to brag about doing more, and not less, I know that some people don't like to hear it. That's the point. “ If we don’t work here anymore, and we don’t run away from sessions like these, there is no growth of gentlemen in science and politics and anywhere. Then we will have 8%, and our cultural activities will have greater isolation, so our country's compatriots will have greater isolation for their projects, as well as our national minorities within our country. I'm sorry I took a little, but here's the point, I think I'm a split, but I'm sorry these aren't here. They don't come because they're not the conditions, because they never came here. If they have the courage, here's a stenogram and you'll see when they come, when they need to talk for three minutes and run. They went to physical exercises, and they were delegated here. They are representatives of the people, let them fight here, with ideas, knowledge, abilities, not stories. When I mention it again, Dr. Radonjic, and so on, he makes fun of his dual education, a professor of economics, you saw it today. Then what do you say? How do we achieve 8%? Well, the problem is in him, and he's not in Alexander Vukic who's the first, let's say, to mention, dual education. We're doing it very successfully, seven thousand students, 2,600 this year in the first grade. That's the data, isn't it, gentlemen who are fleeing this assembly? What about Marinika Tepic? She's the sabotage I was talking about in the full war. In the case of France in 1916, when air alarm devices were disabled. That's what happened in this war. History puts them all in place, me and them and anyone else. I'm sorry I've expanded a little bit, but you've made good ministers a unity of Serbian cultural space, the charter is made, but we're also pushing other minorities within Serbia. Is he on enough level? It's not. But it's good. We try to make it better, but for our people in neighbouring countries and around the world, as in the economy. This is great. What he said, I quote again the president -- "We are trying to work harder to make culture and science stand out more. “ And yesterday the one who ran away, because he asked the minister here yesterday — can the projects be done through the association? You know why he asked, because he can't go through scientific institutions anymore, he has to have conditions, he has to have them on the Thompson lists and on other lists around the world, but he doesn't because he robbed money, for fuck's sakes. There's no more of that. We're putting it into normal frameworks how it's done in cultural countries. Thank you, I'm sorry for this raid.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69241	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is according to the amendment, Mr. Serboslav Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69242	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that today's session is going in this direction, and that, regardless of whether we are part of the ruling majority or we are representing the opposition that is in parliament today, that we have agreed on some things, and that is in the good part of how culture should look in Serbia, how should we treat our own history, in our own past, and how should we cultivate these traditions that need to preserve us in the decades that are within us? Of course, we can differ by how we would allocate the funds we have in the budget, where we would invest more and less, what roads we need more and where it is more important to end up before the infrastructure or somewhere else, and so on, but about these essential things that make up one core of a country, we as responsible politicians of this Assembly have to agree together on what is most important for Serbia not in the next four years, but what is most important in the next century for Serbia? It'll be two or three terms. One power to pass. There'll be a second, a third, and then they'll be told all the time what's happened in the last five years, ten or twenty years. We should watch, as serious countries in the world do, strategically. Strategic means that we have a goal from whom, as in the United States, when they agree on what their national interest is, what their goal is, they stick to it, no matter what administration is in power. There are nuances where we can differ. That's good. These are our ideological differences, principled, economic, financial views on politics, on life, on investment, whether we would give subsidies, would not give subsidies, but about what Serbian national interest is, about what our history is, what our culture, what our identity is, does not depend on which political option we belong. This is how it should be with normal people, normal politicians, but we have a part of the abnormal people who are currently truly only formally MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who no longer know for themselves which political group or what ideological direction they belong to, because they've been mixed up so much already. They started at one of the MPs' clubs, so they moved to another, and then they changed thousands of names and their leaders in the meantime, but they kept something that's the core, which is the thread of all of them, it's the hatred of their own country and the love of money. That's what they're into, love of money, we never give it up, but that's why they'll give up easily both in front of European parliamentarians and in front of Brussels and in front of Washington, in front of any major centre, in the world they'll easily give up their country, their history, their culture, just for a little bit of money and for a little bit of interest. Today, Dragan Gilas, on one of his portals, the false portal "Directly" will say that in the transmission, made claims that, of course, are completely again something that has nothing to do with culture. We're talking about culture, communication culture is important between us. We cannot or should not address each other with one such heavy and ugly words shared by the public in Serbia. I'm saying, we can have different ideas, we can exchange them, so let's make it a little more passionate, let's make it a more bile debate, but it can't cross the good taste line. He said today that he is against threats and against breaking heads, against hatred, against division, against everything that he actually advocates by his political action, and he advocates that, I said this morning when asking a parliamentary question, our colleague from Old Town, Jovan Knezevic, is threatening the phone with death. That another one of our colleagues, Kovacevic, from Zemun, is breaking his head in front of the building he lives in. They advocate precisely that the President of the Republic is daily referred to as threats, of course because they would like to be true, but above all as a goal and as a purpose of pressure on him to give up on him to get out of the track, that he cannot deal with what his job is, that is, the creation of a strong state, a stable state of Serbia in the Balkans, which will be an example to others that others should develop, not the danger they pose when I speak of national interest. He's talking about against division, and in doing so, their chargers are daily, and so are these, which are already holding conferences of Marinika and other chickens, which say bots, sandwichers, toothaches, and then divide Serbia into a hundred pieces. In fact, for them 60%, 70% of people are no good at all in Serbia, they're all disgusting, they won't support them, they won't vote for corruption, they don't vote for crime, they don't want concrete things to see in the state, they want to see the National Museum, they want to see some good set of painters known to ours, we have a shine, they want people to see new highways, they want people to see new schools, they want to see some laws of good that will bring them benefits in the future, people won't see our fights anymore, and that's exactly what Alexander Vukic does. We bring down tensions whenever they rise from one side, we try to bring down the tension in society, on the one hand, the results and the well-responsibly responsible policy again, and on the other hand, the well-intentioned one that our society wants. We would like people to hear something concrete, and what is the program of the other side, how can it be better, how more money to be for culture, how can we restore some new museum, how can we possibly raise that ruined building of the National Library on Kosančić's crown, how can we do such things that will benefit and in history to leave a trail, a concrete clue, which we will say -- well, this was then a good government, some advances, then the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic or who he was, and he left it to the people to last in the centuries that are ahead of him. People won't remember in 20, 30, 50 years no portals, they won't remember our tweets, they won't remember the shooting, they'll remember what's left of their children, they'll remember the buildings, the exhibitions, the museums, the giants, they'll remember the works. People won't remember nonsense and nonsense. He won't remember someone writing on his profile that someone's stupid, beautiful, smart, ugly, a sandwich, they're not important things, that's not the essence of the policy that Serbia needs today. Serbia needs a step in politics today, so I hope and believe, and not only do I hope, hope in itself means nothing, but I believe that in the next session it will be in contrast to those, let's say a year we have a more decent communication, but that the next meeting will be more polite, there will be arguments far more than the opposition, because the government is good, but it has to be even better. In order to be even better, there must be concrete arguments on the other hand, which encourage you to do better, to do more, to achieve more results. It's these criticisms that are being referred to, of course there are people from the opposition who are constructive, today we've heard good ideas, good suggestions, whether it's possible to realize everything, it's probably not possible to do everything right now, something will probably never be possible to do, but it's important that we have suggestions and ideas. Not that we're going naked for criticism, for collecting some petty political points from today to tomorrow. So it's good that as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a state, we help our people everywhere in the region. It's our duty. Every normal state does that, helps its community where it is, where our people live, to feel good, stable, safe, to see that their country has not forgotten them, no matter why they went from it, whether they went from economics to work, to work somewhere, or were forced for some reason, or were born in another country, but they want to be tied to something of their own queen. That connection between them is not, I'd say through some other resistors, but perhaps most of all through the culture resort, through history, completely athletes, through some real values that we need to promote. It's good, I'll invest more and more in culture from year to year, because the economy of a country is stronger, it has more money for culture, there's more money to promote these real values that make one country stable and strong, and therefore, if we have a strong economy, if we have a better culture, if we have funding, we have more jobs, we have a stable state where people want to stay alive and create their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69243	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69244	Thank you, Chairman. Due to the exceptional importance of culture, the SRS has thoroughly addressed this topic in its programme, and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. It proposes to amend Article 2 of this proposal. In this regard, Article 2 of the Proposer of these amendments proposed amending the law of Article 6 of the applicable Cultural Act. Otherwise, the provisions of Article 6 refer to the general interest in culture, more specifically to what the general interest in culture covers. Our amendment suggests that in point 12, paragraph 1, which is specified that the general interest in culture includes financing the activities of cultural institutions and protection institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the unit of local self-government. The amended point 12 is seen by adding the text at the end of the sentence – in accordance with the law. The promoter stated that in the course of the amendment of Article 6 he intended to work more closely on the work of the common interests in culture, especially when it comes to the activity of protection and classification in areas and species. Our amendment proposes that the financing of work in cultural institutions and protection institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units, should be carried out in accordance with the law. If the proposing representative accepted this amendment, there would be nothing extra in the text of the law, and the benefit would be great, as it insists on respecting legality. In this way, the text would be improved and an obligation would be made to spend money legally on culture, given that the work of cultural institutions and protection institutions is financed from the budget filled with the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69245	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with Associates, I would like to point out within this topic and this law and ask whether the competent authorities will bear in mind that as soon as possible Michael Pupin, as a great scientist and a great man who has contributed much to the Serbian people and to the Serbian state, is to raise an adequate monument? Secondly, Mr. Minister, there is a chapel in Panchev, George Weifert, which was the first founder of the first brewery in the Balkans, i.e. which was founded and built in 1722. He's got a chapel where criminals, drug addicts, and they write dogs. I think he deserves more attention to bow to him in this regard. Mr. Minister, a great deal of shit has fallen out these days in some media and thunderstorms why the President of the Republic asked the question, why the prison criminals are being released, and among other things the last criminal Korac, who has had a large number of criminal charges, and that the public prosecutor has given up prosecution. It seems to me that our law enforcement authorities, and above all, the judiciary and the prosecution, have stopped amnesia, so they're now on their way to arrest prostitutes. So, according to the media, 22 prostitutes were reportedly arrested, but were not imprisoned, or arrested by those thieves and robbers for those 22 famous privatisations that made her miserable... Milorad Mircic: Twenty-four. )......................................................................................................... 24 privatisations, where damage has been done to Serbian citizens, the state of Serbia for about five billion euros. How is it possible that the social danger is greater to be a daughter of prostitutes, not to be a daughter of tycoons and thieves, the biggest robbers? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I think it's really time for some things to change in the judiciary and for no one to ask the President of the Republic if he is obliged and obliged to be interested in the implementation of the Constitution and the law, and that is precisely the case with the judicial authorities. The judicial authorities will not take away their right to make legal decisions, but no one can be allowed, citizens of Serbia, this parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot allow criminals to be released and judges and prosecutors think they are independent of anyone anymore, are independent when they make a legal decision, and if they have broken the law they have to bear full responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69247	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69248	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MP, Mr. Jojic, is not quite true when it is said there are no monuments in Serbia to Michael Pupin, it is a certain inaccuracy, since there is a bust in Idvor, and there is a monument in Novi Sad. Those things are famous. Of course, I believe that you may have thought, although this is not my place to interpret your words, that there should be a monument in Belgrade to Michael Pupina. I support such logic and if, of course, the Ministry is not in a position to raise monuments, but it is an opportunity to finance or co-finance projects that would be presented to us and sent to our standard models of competitive co-financing and so on. Therefore, we did not have to pay back the debt in a certain one, although the debt is too large and that with one bust and one monument we did not achieve enough, but if you had in mind Belgrade, certainly the Pupina monument is missing here. A similar thing applies in principle to this chapel of prominent Serbian Gjorge Weifert, but it would be good if the local self-government, the town of Panchevo addressed the Ministry with some co-financing project and that the thing also, which is consistent and quite right to do so. As far as these other allegations and opinions are concerned, I'm not in a position to comment because it's not from the domain of the Ministry of Culture and Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69249	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Jojic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69250	Mr. Minister, I probably wasn't precise enough, but I thought Michael Pupino needed an adequate monument to be erected in Belgrade. It is true that there is its bust, but I think the city of Belgrade should have a monument of such a giant. As for local self-government and these chapels to the famous benefactor and credited citizen of Serbia, that the chapel really turns around and closes down so the junkies don't collect there. However, local self-government has previously painted a city toilet for 17 million dinars. You may think that this toilet costs a local self-government of 17 million dinars, and where money is spent no one knows. They're meant to be here, but the money wasn't spent here, and that price was hundreds of times, far less. Therefore, local self-government needs to take care of everything. I repeat, Mr. Minister, it's not your portfolio, but it's the internal affairs and public prosecutor's office's department's department's department's portfolio, and there's a drugstore robbed in Panchev for a billion and 30 million dinars. There's no money. The city must now pay now from the budget, taxpayers' funds now to the debt suppliers. But they're thieves, one thief came from Cuckoo after DOS authorities, 50% in the pharmacy did damage. The other lady was set up by the yellow ones from Užica. She doctored this pharmacy, robbed a drugstore for a billion and 30 million. Now the city of Panchevo has to pay, but the mayor has to bear full responsibility and make bills to the taxpayers what the city has done to commit robbery, billions and 30 million in a pharmacy, and now citizens have to pay for it. Why is the most expensive heating in Panc's house? Well, you see, Serbia is not all clear for what reasons. Therefore, when it comes to local self-government, local self-government must respond to citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69251	Thank you, colleague Jojic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Professor Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69252	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in every well-ordered state, the attitude towards culture should reflect the degree of maturity of society in general. Culture is the way and style of life and there is almost no segment of human life where culture is not represented in any form. Unfortunately, culture is something that is not sufficiently understood and accepted in our society. Unlike other ministries that do frequent amendments and amendments to the law under their jurisdiction, this ministry has had only one intervention in 2009. What we have on the table today as changes and additions could have been done years ago. Why has it been so long with these changes and additions, which basically don't bring much new than some technical grooming. There is also too much difference between culture as a way of life and the functioning of the mother ministry. The ministry was receptive to numerous counter-cultural phenomena and processes in society. There weren't any action, and there were more causes. However, the greatest sin is that it was not done enough to protect and preserve Serbian and Cyrillic. The cultural scene is dominated by content that insignificantly activates thoughts and feelings. They carve half-products from abroad with simple simplified meanings and messages. Cultural entertainment takes precedence over the culture of search and design, the energy of creation, the search for a new expression, themes and procedures is directed towards the culture of entertainment. The creation that requires long and hard work disappears slowly. We are increasingly facing creation that interferes with the environment, wide audiences and cost-effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69253	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on culture. Each nation has its own culture and it shows its connection to the biological properties of nations and the energy of a nation is concentrated in a certain work in its cultural creation. This kind of creation affects the people of that nation to a certain extent, so some times and to a greater extent, it can change and affect the consciousness of the nation. Although it used to mean that cultural creation had a positive effect on the formation of the nation's consciousness in the past, today unfortunately we have a different trend where individual creators, not only of us but also of the whole world, have a negative impact on the consciousness of the nation. Here, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic mentioned some of our film directors and screenwriters, etc., who made films in which she insulted public morality and history in the most radical way and all that our predecessors did and what belonged to the culture of the people of Serbia. There is a material and spiritual component. These are the two things that are inseparable. If the material component is something that is visible, which can be felt, protected, etc., the cultural component is both important and important. Here our colleague Milletic spoke of a dialect spoken in his neighborhood, in his homeland. It is the same cultural good, one spiritual and immaterial cultural good of our people, and it has long and long been written by late academic Alexander Mladenovic, who was an expert in these things. It is truly inappropriate that when someone from some, let's say, from southern parts of Serbia, who have an accent, something different from the others is trying to relate to some misbehavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69255	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. According to the amendment, Dr Dragana Barisic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69256	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As someone who comes from Kruševac, as someone who loves Serbia and loves the city from where it comes from, I simply have to rely on everything the Ministry of Culture and Information has done in the previous period for my city. What I am proud of is that we Kruševljani have been expecting back decades, but no previous government has heard of any initiative to do so or to raise the question of the restoration of the old Serbian capital's old town of Kruševac. What I'm particularly proud of is what I said, as I said, is that just since the SNS came to power in 2012 in Kraševec, but also in Serbia has raised this issue and given the initiative, and the Ministry of Culture has seen that this problem is indeed adequate, i.e. that it is necessary for Lazar's city to be restored. What we are particularly proud of is that, after all the necessary permits, it started with the restoration of Lazarev's city that is under way and that in 2018 about 5.5 million were allocated from the ministry and from the budget of the town of Kruševec, 2019 about 4.5 million dinars, and for 2020 it is also intended to allocate about 4.5 million dinars. What is needed is to perform a complete restoration, conservation and partial reconstruction of the Lazar complex, which includes the Lazarica Church, the National Museum and the Donjon Tower. The Ministry of Culture, of course in co-operation with local self-government, with a city that works responsibly and works responsibly, here for seven years, and we couldn't boast of it before 2012, because the yellow tycoon government destroyed the city and led it to bankruptcy as well as the whole of Serbia. Now all of this is done and, by 2021, it is expected to end with this reconstruction and restoration and to mark 650 years since the start of the construction of Kruševac as a Serbian capital. I would add that significant funds have also been allocated to the Kruševac National Museum where the permanent location of the museum is indeed of great value, which is 12 million dinars where the town of Kruševac participated with significant funds. As Kruševljana, proud of the fact that just the people of Kruševac and the Privrednik club Kruševac brought the initiative and launched one humanitarian action in some way, but with the support of the town and the resources of the town of Kruševec, two monuments were built in the previous year, a monument to Milic and the monument of the fighters, war participants from 1991 to 1999. On this occasion, I would really like to thank all the businesses of Kruševec who made their contribution, and now we can thank ourselves for in some way paying back to the people who gave their lives in the wars from 1991 to 1999. What awaits us, and otherwise the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Rights, is in co-operation with the Institute for the Protection of Monuments from the Kingdoms, defined six million dinars for the project of reconstruction of the memorial complex "Freedomship", and the project was done by the National Museum Kruševac and the town of Kruševac. Which means that when responsible local self-government is working in certain cities with responsible people, with the support of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I come to the satisfaction of our city, meaning that everything it gets and that our citizens are above all satisfied, because Kruševac is no longer what he was until 2012. Now we can boast not only about infrastructure and new jobs, but also about new monuments and what we have been waiting for for decades. Thank you, in voting day, we will support these laws and move forward, and citizens know that prices and so on, if in the next elections they will again support the SNS that works for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69257	Thank you. Now the word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69258	Thank you, Chairman. I was inspired to report, the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Dragan Barisic, about her town, about Krusevec, what was achieved in Krusevec, what moves were made especially when it came to culture. I wanted to remind the public in Serbia that those who are preparing to go to the elections, the youth of Dragan Gilas, in a way that cares about culture and how to take care of the Temple of St. Sava. Five days ago, in one of their walks, a few dozen of them, or as many as there are, literally, broke into the temple of St. Sava. Well, those massive doors, six feet high, broke down, walked into the temple and wildened inside, that the priests had to run all over the place. This is, of course, being accompanied in certain media, but not sufficiently accompanied in the public of Serbia and not accompanied enough on social networks, because people, in fact, are not sufficiently informed about everything to see, how savagery it is, how insane it is, and what it looks like when some more demonic forces take over. No one can do that. It's not recorded, or at least I don't remember, and you remind me if someone did it once, except communists when they were crossing churches and what they were doing, the frescoes in churches, when they were defending people to go to church and celebrate the glory, well, this was done by the same model -- to break down the church, destroy, do damage, and thus show that I don't know how brave you are, you clashed with the door of nine meters at the entrance to the largest Serbian temple. It's not the greatest courage, it's the biggest shame for those who've done it, and the public has to keep reminding themselves, in order to know what kind of people offer themselves as an alternative. What is it that I'm all about the story of the culture we're talking about today? Because they're constantly bound by elitism, they're constantly bound by some kind of so-called. cultural workers, some highly minded, highly educated, etc. Well, people, I prefer these temple-respecting credentials, I prefer those sandwiches that contribute to the completion of the temple, I prefer those Karadjordjevics who have not mastered the good Serbian language, so they donated that door to that temple, I prefer all those people who go to the temple culturally and civilizedly, however modestly they are, because some people before that have made them poor and poor, that they have no money, that I prefer them all, whatever they look, and as illiterate as they call them, and they are not, because they are nice and humble people who do not want to impose on anyone and to boast. These are people who, by their conduct, by their relationship and by their attitude towards, metaphorically speaking, and the temple of the Holy Sava, show their relationship to their history, show love for their country, not by being, as the other day, to hear that they are great patriots, that they will choose to preserve Kosovo, that they will not know what to do, and they are the guilty because of what has happened at KIM. In the end, they are the ones who got us into all the problems that they got us into from 2000 to 2012 with their lies, they are the ones who tied everything to themselves, so people lied that it was their culture, that Europe is theirs, that Kosovo is theirs. It's all theirs, and nothing is, in fact, Serbian, nothing is a Serb people. And they gave themselves the right to be representatives of the cultural elite. They, and today, here they are, gathered in front of the RTS, calling -- if you don't listen to us, then you're not independent, then you're not independent, then it's not democratic, then it's not civilized. So someone, with 2% or 3% of their support, attributed that everything others don't do, the vast majority of citizens don't do, then it's not civilized, then it's not democratic. And it's civilized, gentlemen, to break the temple of St. Sava and to put that mosaic inside, which does not suffer a temperature below five degrees, in such an awkward situation that the question is whether this mosaic will be within the time limit that is scheduled to be completed. So, you've done damage, not material damage, it's done to repair, you've done spiritual damage, because you've also done to those who are on the outside against Serbian interests, against our sanctity, to preserve them in Kosovo and Metohija, you're giving them an argument more to say -- well, you're not even able to keep your sanctity in your own capital, and you want to keep them in that place that you consider your southern province. Let's call our senses, invite these children not to listen to such nonsense, not to listen to directives, to go breaking into temples, to steal, to rob, but to really look up to that policy that propagates the right values, to look at what that policy is. The temple of St. Sava came before the end, and it is precisely the work of this authority. It's an act, if we're going to say both personally and personally, to bind, the work and the president of Alexander Vukic. It is the work of this responsible policy, because that policy has managed to provide money for it. That's where the money's important. It wouldn't have been for our temples, for our sanctity, for the preservation of our culture and identity, if there was no money, and money had to provide some policy. And someone had to run that country at that time when it was secured and the cash was loaded. So that idiot Dragan Gilas said -- so now it's full of cash, the cash is full, we have money, I'm going to provide you with a better life, so I'm going to destroy everything about the robbery. You won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69259	On Article 3 of the amendment, a Member of the People of Radet submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69260	We really expected the minister, even the Committee, to accept this amendment, because it is a member who speaks of what is considered a cultural activity within the meaning of this law, and then there is a number of film art, classical ballet, folk game, contemporary game, theatre art, etc. And then, with theatre art, there's a general formulation, creation, production and interpretation. We thought that there should be a special set of operas with all of this. Now, we don't know exactly which of these categories we'd put it in, and the opera certainly is important for cultural life in every country, in every city where possible. In addition, for several years, the current government has promised to build an opera building in Belgrade. Something's been forgotten lately, but maybe now there's going to be an election campaign, maybe somebody's going to remember again. Anyway, we think this should have been accepted. In no way are we jeopardizing this existing text, we are merely trying to identify more precisely what you have suggested and formulated in this Article 8. Here today we had different views on the sphere of culture and in many ways we actually agreed here today when it comes to national culture. Both SRS MPs and government agreed in the good work, so the minister agreed with both MPs. But there are some things we still can't agree on. This is for the public's sake. We can't be hypocritical about whatever we're talking about from this place. Here, colleagues from the ruling majority mentioned Marinika Tepic, who are their target now. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, we long ago identified Marinika Tepic as a traitor to the Serbian people, and we did not have much approval from you at the time, some excessive understanding by you from the authorities, until it came down to the fact that both of you or individuals attacked you specifically. The colleagues here said that Marinika Tepic signed in the National Assembly, a petition or a request for the National Assembly to adopt a resolution that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. And it is indeed for every condemnation, and it is indeed something that is inappropriate to the National Assembly, and I don't think there is a people who would ever again be his messenger to be someone who would declare that people genocide. Anything can happen in Serbia. For the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, it is true that in 2016 a request was signed, a proposal from a group of MPs who asked for an act to be adopted in the National Assembly to indicate that it was genocide in Srebrenica. But for the sake of truth, it was not only Marinika Tepic, the signatories were: Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zarko Korac, Natasa Micic, Nenad Milic, Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Olena Papuga, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic. This way we have to talk about it, not just to single out someone we don't like right now, either for this reason or for that reason. Also, the proposal was verbally supported by MP Meho Omerovic at the time, and said he and his party would stand behind it if it were on the agenda. Aleksandar Ciocric also said, if it comes to the agenda, he and the MPs of the SPO, whatever it is at this point, will vote, even said they think a memorial should be made in Belgrade, as a warning of what the Serbian people did in Srebrenica. So, we're just asking you to be correct, not to be hypocritical. If we're attacking something that is for assault, if anything is, then it's this idea that anyone can come to their senses alive that they can consider and decide that Srebrenica was a genocide, because it wasn't, then we have to mark anyone who said it at that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69261	The word has a minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69262	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, just for a moment to comment on this opera. That was the day before yesterday. We are, of course, before that, and in the meantime, i.e. Yesterday they consulted with important institutions of culture, such as SANU, art colleges and the like, and where is the plot, if I may say so? This law defines, tries to define, I think it manages to define areas of culture, and the opera is, in all these interpretations, and in our view, a certain kind of cultural product. It is now a subtle distinction for our widest public, etc. and I am sure that there is a possibility that if the legislator, which is the National Assembly, in some near future he will take the view that it is necessary in some amendments and the addition of the law to list cultural products that the opera will definitely find its place, but not just the opera, but other products. Opera is not, therefore, an area, but a product of a creative process from several fields of culture, music, theatre, visual art, literature, art games, etc. Why literature? Well, well, we all know that, it takes someone to write a libretto, so it takes someone to compose it, so someone can do it, etc. So it's complicatedly structured, so-called. cultural product. The term product sort of works rhogobatically when it comes to culture, and simply these are the names that exist. In this sense, we believe that there is room for cultural products to be listed in some future and possibly more recent additions to this law, and in this sense, the opera will take its place, and for now we remain on the option, i.e. the possibility of defining the areas of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69263	Thank you. If you want to talk about the amendment, since it's about the opera. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69264	I'm replicating the minister of the opera. Of course, what you said, Mr. Minister, somehow leads more to the need to accept the amendment, because cultural products are also a classic ballet and game, because we're not talking about folklore, but we're talking about the game as a separate piece. So we don't think it's your argument, but it's certainly you who are proposing, the majority of the parliament is adopting, and we expect when the laws change that you're going to take care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69265	Thank you. The word has Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69266	Just for a little while. The minister answered the question completely, and with this the Committee was very close to accepting this amendment and it is indeed reasoned, especially that the only one in which this job is indeed the most professional and at the highest level of concern, Mrs Jadranka Jovanovic, also explained. So, at this point, it is a decision to support the Ministry's position that it is an area, with that, here, and my suggestion is that in future we need to find a formula for the opera to enjoy special care in the law, because we are really told what it means to be an opera singer, what a physical, artistic and even effort it is. So much this amendment makes sense, but at this point we are closer to the Ministry's position to put it in the area, with the obligation of the Ministry in line with all European regulations and other countries that have a positive opinion to find one and perhaps an even better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69267	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Since the Faith of Radeta has some more time, that's why I'm asking her. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Natapa Sp. Jovanovic. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69268	We talked about this, Mr. Minister, in a principle debate. We wanted the whole member deleted, but it may have been even more correct, but I can see that you do not now have the will to accept all our corrections, to indicate that the province, the local self-government unit, can declare the manifestations that the republican authority will be in charge, or the ministry to see that they are of particular importance to culture. But certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, should have done so for those organised at the republican level. You told me, in principle, that's what you told me, but this is where they have it. You know, and it's good. Many local self-governments now have various cultural manifestations and festivals and each should have, that heritage is what is authentic from its end. But the Vukovar Assembly, which is not just a mere manifestation, is even on the list of immaterial cultural heritage, and perhaps one day it is on the UNESCO list is the most significant, I guess, for Serbia. The urinal days are held for 50 years. Bemus. So what's really important is what's important. The trumpet assembly in Guca, right? So we have to make sure that the state is defined for what's most important. Why doesn't it stand in the law and for the record - we're the ones who said it was on the state level most important. Otherwise, the SRS opposes, you said, not giving away your ministry, but giving away the tourism ministry, giving the city of Novi Sad and the province government to give any dinar for "Exit".
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69269	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69270	Yeah, there were already words about it the other day. Basically, we've defined ourselves for this circumstance to define this in the law, and that's what you're up for, and we're up for, in the future, define by a regulation. Because we've highlighted the arguments... We'll see. Let's let the time pass, with that in mind. Yeah, but if the law were, then that would be the intersection of what we have today. If we have a regulation that we can easily change, we can introduce those... We'll see. I'm not saying that there is absolutely a predominant reason for this solution, and no reason for that solution is simply, we consider this to be a regulation for now, but certainly there is room for thinking in that direction, because we now have one, as I would say, very active events related to the promotion of new festivals, new events and so on and so forth, and then really, some of the events may not have earned at this time to find themselves in the law numbered, but perhaps in a year two, so in that sense we only saw the advantage of the regulation as a framework for defining, but each of us will have the opportunity to consider and enter the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69271	Natasha Sp. Mr. Jovanovic: Mr. President, can I have a moment? You can. The word has been made by the MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69272	It's right that there are some who have yet to prove themselves. Here, we have so many years in political life, I'm 28, president for 30 years, and so we follow what's been going on, how the laws have changed, but what's now a cut that doesn't? Well, and those new ones that are newer. What does that mean, newer? I think "Kustendorf" has existed since 2007, which is already a festival that, with the personal involvement of Emira Kusturica, has revealed Hollywood production, all that is quasi-art, which comes from the West, and above all, from America and such production that promotes consumer society, which promotes what is not family value, which is not tradition, and what Kustendorf has proved to be able, because all the greats, started from Nikita Mihalkova, and others, visited Mokru Gora and there promoted friendship with the Serbian people, and their film and culture and so on. So we can now say that "Days of Bati Stojkovic" is not some event that has been since yesterday, so "Nishville". These are festivals that really have one level and have great importance, because in order for them to have greater importance if they are incorporated into the law, not by regulation, because the regulation is variable. Otherwise, we are principally against having anything of any importance to any area regulated by the regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69273	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69274	Thank you. We'll see how that works. In principle, it is not a practice for festival names to be passed by law because it can happen to change the name of festivals or additions. You know now, internationally or this one or that one. In that sense, it would have to change the law, but I certainly understand the motives for you to advocate the affirmation of such an attitude. Come on, we'll see. We'll try a regulation, so if it turns out to be a bad solution in a year, it's easy to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69275	Thank you. The Committee on Culture and Information has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to make a statement on this amendment if he accepts it?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69276	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69277	I thank the minister. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? (No) Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, culture is very important. Today I had this accident to listen to a famous librarian. His name is Bosko Obradovic. Six years' experience in the library, the library spokesman, and when? So, a person who in 1999, in order to avoid war in Kosovo and possible departure, launched the Dveri magazine. It was then that he got caught up in launching the Dvori magazine, only enough not to go to Kosovo, as did some who were not Serbian nationalities. I've often cited cases. Sergey Trifunovic fled to America, Dusan Teodorovic fled to America, directly to the aggressor side, and Bosko Obradovic, as a bookworm, dragged and founded the magazine "Dveri". After that, parallel to that, Kostunica's coming to power in 2004, he parks in the Chačan library, a library spokesman. A little visit to Hilandar, a little later and in this cultural good of great importance to our people, takes 5,000 euros, swears on the "Trier" to not make a party, but to be a magazine of the Association of the Dvori, swears on the "Trouble" and becomes the left hand of the Bosko. He takes 5,000 euros, chats, cheats on monks in Hilandara, and that's his development of culture. Today he spoke of the alleged betrayal of Serbian sanctity by the authorities in the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, but I take a bit and, behold, from 2004 to 2007, there was the DSS, which gave him 52,000 euros from the Kolubara mine, which is to find a small library of the famous Chacan library, i.e. a spokesman. It's nice that there's little to go out, etc., to recover a little, 52,000 euros from a mine that's worth a loss of 150m euros that year, but for Boška there must be. In 2006 Montenegro separates itself in a famous referendum with, I think, 1,000 votes surplus. It separates itself from the Republic of Serbia and disappears the state community that takes care of human rights among other things, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro disappears throughout its territory. Montenegro separates itself at a time when Kostunica, his favorite leader and DSS, with whom he entered this parliament, so he did not enter alone, but in a coalition with the DSS, enters and forgets that in 2006, the DSS made it possible for Montenegro to part. Vojislav Kostunica and DSS did not insist that Montenegrins in Serbia, Serbs born in Montenegro, as well as other diaspora of Montenegro, who voted in a referendum from all countries, except Serbia. Only if they had done so and had requested that Serbs or Montenegrins living in Serbia, born in Montenegro, have the right to enter a referendum, Montenegro would not be separated from Serbia. So today, not even the sanctity would come into danger, cultural goods, Serbian cultural goods, which the Germans still raised, would not come into danger, because the Serbia-Montenegro community would care for human rights, and the right to religion is one of the basic human rights, but Bosko Obradovic, this famous librarian, forgot who he is in the alliance with today. Is he in league with Vuk Jeremic? Of course it is. Did this Vuk Jeremic say about the separation of Montenegro – I am "j" mother of Serbia-Montenegro, and with that of Rocen – you, Serbia, me Montenegro and vice versa. Bosko Obradovic forgets who he is in the alliance with. These are the undertakers of the Federal State and the communities of Serbia-Montenegro. He is with them, and he has therefore granted them responsibility for the decomposition of the Serbia-Montenegro community, and thus contributed to the danger of the sanctity today. No, he forgot that. He holds a press conference today against the authorities of 2019, 2020, 2018 and 2017, which is 11, 12, 13, 14 years after the events that caused us to be unable to react in Montenegro today to react that there was no partner of Bosko Obradović, a famous cultural worker, a spokesman for the Chacan library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69279	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69280	Thank you, President. Just for a little while, I'd like to refer to my distinguished colleague, Marijan Rističević. The motto of these great cultural workers from the Chacan library is that the state doesn't have to be guarded, but it has to be stolen. It's their motto. It is the essence of politics and to steal everything that can be stolen in Serbia and come to power again, to have someone else give them those 52,000 euros again, to bring Serbian citizens back to bankruptcy, to have nothing to help our people in the diaspora again, to have nothing to finish our temples, to have nothing to rebuild our temples again, to have no way to feed our children again. It's the motto of this policy. It's the idea of that policy. I support absolutely what my colleague said because we must all keep, even if we are boring, to repeat constantly who we are dealing with, what dangers we face before the next spring elections, what challenges await us, what aggression and violence are at stake, people who have nothing sacred. When someone was able to steal in Hilandara, when they were able to break into the temple of the Holy Sava, break down the door, they would be able to break Serbia if we let him, and we won't let him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69281	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69282	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through the submission of the amendment, the Serbian Radical Party intervened on Article 20 of this bill. I'm going to say a few sentences on this subject in this short time. The development of civil society necessarily conditions and changes in culture. What happens in culture and culture? Civil society with its individualism, privacy, market, pluralism and class differences seeks its culture. It relativates basic human values. People and ideas are on the market. The quality of Serbian culture must be discussed, and it has not been discussed for long. Some creators in this area seriously draw attention and warn. The creators of culture are faced with great temptation. Consumers in culture too. Why? Simply because profit is the only and leading practical value of civil society and reduces time, especially freely, in the life of each of us. The struggle for success in the labour market makes a working career insecure, and time is seen as the most precious resource. It doesn't stand time for useless things, it only appreciates the practical knowledge that can be quickly and easily cashed. Who has time under these circumstances for spiritual upgrades, i.e. culture? In this environment, the circle of powerful creators, those who are dedicated to art and culture, is all narrow, like the circle of so-called circle. light cultures are growing, various "colleges and couples" and similar programs have multiplied and accumulated like mushrooms after the rain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69283	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I forgot to say that Montenegro has separated, and that is what Bosko Obradovic misses to say, at the time of the DSS government, but also at the time of the government of Boris Tadic and DS. Boris Tadic allowed all this to happen when the president of the common state was Svetozar Marovic, so when they paid for that 42m-euro satellite, so that they made a decision but that Serbia would pay him. Montenegro's president was Milo Djukanovic and Serbia's President Boris Tadic. Three Montenegrins ruled with two states and a state union, and allowed Montenegro to separate. Today, Bosko Obradovic sits with the DS. There is also this Miroslav Aleksic, who is holding a press conference today, a famous agricultural expert, who said over Jovanica, that the seedlings were five years old. A tavern, like a one-year-old plant, can't, can water as much as you want, can't last more than a year. That's how much he knows the problem. But Alexic didn't tell us, calling on the president of the Republic, behold, miracles, to give up immunity so he could sue him. Here, let him sue me. I argue that Alexic received from his father-in-law Ljubisa Knezevic about 600,000 euros for an NGO at the time of DS government, which Bosko Obradovic so amnested by responsibility, that he received over 600,000 euros for his NGO, which he called, I think, the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources. So, 50 and a few million, when you turn after that course, you get about 600,000 euros from Miroslav Aleksic for his NGO, which he, his wife and Ljubisa Knezevic, his father, was made up of, by the fact that Ljubisa Knezevic was the director of the National Employment Service in Tristenik and transferred his son-in-law to an NGO, a leaves-gathering god, all 600,000 euros. Today, Miroslav Aleksic, raising his voice to the state of Serbia, to officials of the state of Serbia, to the president of the Republic, wants, above all, to present himself as a possible political sacrifice if the investigation leading to the election's loss of parliamentary immunity after the boycott of the elections and leading to arrest. That's why Miroslav Aleksic is so loud about Alexander Vukic, that as an alleged political victim, a political opponent, he avoids responsibility for his and his old man's apparent robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69285	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marjan Risticevic. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the draft law on archival construction and archival activity. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Culture and Information. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69286	Article 1 speaks of what is the subject of this law. It is really important to stress that the concept of archival construction and archival activity is something much broader, more serious and much more than the national interest of what perhaps someone who is not sufficiently involved in the team imagines when it comes to archives. Many people probably think that the archives are just some place where there are complex documents that you can find after 20, 30 or 100 years. Of course, it is. But the notion of archives from a national aspect is something that has not been given any serious attention so far. I assume, Minister, that you know that the last director of the archives, who was truly a patriot and a nationalist, was Dr. John Payin. And this man, indeed, tried and did a lot of things, as much as he could, but he also had a lot of footing before he retired. Then some others were in power and did not allow him to do anything that he had an idea, which is related to general state and national interests. Just when we talked about this archive in St. Mark's church this morning, and you said that it already exists in Zemun, so you said, the depot for that archive, that John Payin was working on that archive, the man who really knows the job and who was doing it from the heart and soul, because he wanted that very archival structure to be noticed, to be somewhere in which it would be available to the public, not to be in some boxes, in some basements, attics, etc. But what matters when this archival structure is at stake, and it certainly isn't just that, and in Patriarchy there are many manuscripts, many books, many things to single out the funds, the good will, above all, and that from the state aspect, from the state level, in fact, to begin to publish as many of the larger pieces of giants as possible from our past.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69287	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69288	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, when we talk about archival construction, Serbia is the necessary law that will in a comprehensive way regulate the protection of archival construction and the functioning of archival activity. We have a 1994 law, but it doesn't settle all the issues that apply to this area. For example, we have an archival structure that originally occurs in electronic form, i.e. the rights and obligations of those who create such an archival structure are not fully arranged. Also, the 1994 law does not recognise the creator's and owner's records in electronic form. The archival structure of legal entities before privatisation should also be mentioned. We also have private archives. We also have professional archival calls, which also fall under issues not regulated by the 1994 law. We're aware of the situation that cultural institutions need help, mostly financially. Greater separations are needed, first of all, by local self-government. We, Nis, have a large number of cultural institutions. We have the National Theatre, we have the puppet theater, we have the museum, we have the historical archives, we have the Gallery of Contemporary Art with the pavilion in the fortress, we have the building of the symphony orchestra. For example, the building of the symphony orchestra is relatively almost renovated. So, these institutions also have the need for ongoing maintenance, for renovation, for restoration, for salaries for employees, but also for new employment, they also have great needs for professional staff, greater space for accommodation of archival buildings, etc. We expect that the adoption of this law will create an institutional basis for ensuring the conditions necessary for the performance, protection of the archive building and, above all, for the even development of archives. We also expect the creation of a legal framework, the establishment of an archival fund that will preserve our national heritage, because that is what we leave to future generations to keep on guard and to be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69289	Thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69290	Mr. Minister, this Article 3 is prescribed by the Gender Equality Act and is completely unnecessary. Because we, the MPs of the SRS, and Mrs Gojkovic, who has repeatedly, as a good acquaintance of Serbian language and linguistics, apostrophe, when they were here from that failed yellow company, that in 2015 SANU still had an official view of the fact that the nouns, species and half expressed generically in male and female genders were related to both male and female. So we can't say, as Gordana Comic says, "pilot" or she would say about the ballet player "toy", the player is said to say, says the pilot, the driver, etc. So this is completely unnecessary, because once we really have to stop this nonsense the way someone wants it, and that's these pro-Western agents, first of all, to defile the Serbian language. We must keep the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, but it has been absolutely since the time of the world and the century as a clear Serbian grammar in this sense. That's why it should be known that it's only right if all these occupations and all that applies to both male and female are spoken correctly and this is the first time... We ask that it be deleted - the terms which mark the positions, professions, or professions, expressed in the grammatical male race, include the natural male and female gender of the person to whom they apply. What do we do now, Mr. Secretary, to make a point of knowing our grammar? It's like everyone knows how to say good day correctly, how to write I don't know, etc., so there's no need to stand especially in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69291	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69292	Yes, the topic has been quite public in the past few years and there are views of the SANU Standardisation Committee. That's what you quoted correctly. However, there are border cases. This is simply being introduced into all the laws and has arrived at the intervention of the Office of Gender Equality. Now let me make a little joke, come on, the atmosphere has been pretty serious for hours, and maybe an opportunity for a picturesque example. Dear Ambassador Jadranka Jovanovic is an opera... What is she? Opera? It's okay, it's a giant. It's a different phone book. She's an opera singer. However, I am not sure that this model has been accepted in the standard and coloroquial language. She's an opera singer, as far as we know. That's those distances. This provision allows you to give little space, or language to breathe. I think we're in the field of a number of border cases, so in that sense this solution allows us to use terms. Of course, there are grotesque examples that the language does not tolerate, but there are those that are accepted in the standard language term. I don't think this is a bad solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69293	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69294	Dear Mr. Minister, I don't think there's an Equality Office, and in one part I'd like to adhere to the normatives set by the SANU Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language. I think it's science that needs to determine certain things that need to be in law, in language, in spelling and in grammar. I guess our most deliberate people sit in that SANU, our scientists who study Serbian language and cherish its tradition. We're talking about culture here. I fully agree that the area has been neglected in the past almost three decades because of the general situation in society, etc., in which the entire state was, as well as the people, and that the first area of culture has been hit by neglect by certain state authorities. However, the level of general education and culture of a nation is nurture and its national identity. National identity also means language. If we break our tongue, we give up our national identity. That's why I'd like it to take first place and respect the position that SANU has prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69295	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69296	Therefore, the views of the Standardisation Committee are not binding, but are for each recommendation. I agree with that, as well as the entire ministry, and, I believe, the largest number of MPs, that what Mr. Arsic pointed out stands. However, I only point out that there are border cases and that we must meet the circumstances that should allow the language to be applied in the way it is generally accepted. Usually, when it comes to gender equality in language terms, grotesque examples are cited. The esteemed National MP Natasa Jovanovic cited some of them. It causes a smile, but there are other cases where these things aren't that simple. So I don't see that there's a problem here in terms of language respect, because that language model is not absolutely standardized. What he would say in his own time, Zoran Radmilovic, joked about what is called an actor, what is in the male race and whether there is a female for it, so certainly there is a standard language term. Is that right? We're not saying that the national theatre champion is an actor. Is that right? So, what I'm saying is that there's a duality of these cases and I don't see that this provision here breaks language principles and standard literary speeches and standard literary norms. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69297	Thank you. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69298	Mr. Minister, the neutrality of the generic male race in Serbian is not a linguistic assumption but a fact. If the SANU Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language declared themselves and put what they said was a point on this issue, it is probably the highest authority of linguistics in this country. Where are we supposed to look for him somewhere else? It's a nice thing to say -- nouns that signify species, occupation, etc., expressed in malehood assume it's also a female, and we can't do that especially because you say they were looking for it. No, it's the first time. You are now in this assembly for the first time minister, so they should have told you, for the first time, when the Law on Gender Equality was passed, this term appeared. It's completely unnecessary. You see, they were also considering this, and here I'm going to tell you, at that session where the issue was discussed using male and female gender and what is the standard of Serbian language and what is grammatically correct, what we are saying and of course what they have confirmed, they are the authority certainly for that. They also considered what was put into the law. They said -- we don't understand why the legislator's potential is that it stands in the law when it's a fact, and there's no assumption, and it doesn't need to be complemented in this particular way right now. So what they're looking for, the offices or whatever it is you're supposed to say -- sorry, gentlemen, there's an idea of what Serbian grammar is. And here's the official attitude, Academy, and there's no need for you to force us to do it right now, especially just because that's how it occurred to you. That's what you said about my colleague Jovanovic. She's an opera singer. She's not a singer. You can also say about a woman who drives a tram that she's a tram or you can tell the pilot's wife that she's a pilot. That's totally ridiculous. So Jadranka Jovanovic is an opera singer, and that is the only thing that is linguistically correct and grammatical.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69299	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69300	Okay. Let's be exact now. So you've proposed an amendment to delete it, but what you've suggested to delete is as you quoted it to be. Just let me do it. The term in which this law marks the position and profession, or professions, is expressed... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I read it. )......................................................................................................... Not all of them may, expressed in grammatical male gender, mean the natural male, female, face-to-face species they refer to. You're suggesting we delete it. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: That is understood. Just as you would say, this is the National Assembly. ) It can also be seen, but I say the views of the Standardisation Committee are not binding. They're recommendations. We have proposed in amendments to the Law on Language and Letters, which has not yet been found unfortunately in the procedure, it is precisely that there is some language advice that is formed by the state authorities of this country that would define in an official way by obliging such misunderstandings, but regardless of what it means, I think that under the influence of various gender equalitys and the option of this type is not burned that even this definition stands in the law, it does not cause harm. It doesn't make any sense. In theory, it may be excessive, but provided that the views of the Standardisation Committee are binding on what they are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69301	If we're women, then we're supposed to be women. We don't have to make up words. I apologize for getting involved in this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69302	We get the bill, we get the decisions and it writes well – the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic. She's not the president, she's the president of the National Assembly. I know exactly what it says, but what's common knowledge doesn't need to be further... It's like if you wrote here on this wall right now – this is the National Assembly. That's the example. That's how you put into law what's standard and what's grammatically correct. This Article 3 needs something special now to potentiate. You say, "It is not binding." No one said that, but I guess that's some kind of linguistic authority in this country. Who are we now to dispute, one such interpretation of people who are most professional, I guess, academics from this area or some woman who sits there. She's an academic, not an academic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69303	The word is Mirjana Dragaš.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69304	Thank you. I thought you were giving your word to the Minister. I believe that this issue of the use of gender equality in language is much more complex than what has now been mentioned and what is currently being discussed and I think that in a conflict in society simply two different opinions are influenced by European Western, American civilizations, etc. The language standardisation committee itself and many other experts have, of course, warned of many such examples that language, regularity, and clearly spoken nouns and their birth meanings are corrupt and, as you said, many of them are so grotesque that they are simply terrible and used. But we also know that that's enough, come on, I'll conditionally say, lobby, or one part of society that, of course, exerts great potential for that part. I think it might be useful in some future period to try to do a maybe analysis of it and to discuss it well with experts, because here's an example from the other side, if the Netherlands changed its name, and then we say, we're not going to call it the Netherlands, but the Netherlands in accordance with language rules, then it's really impossible to say there's sociology, psychology, which is completely considered, not to say, in my opinion, much worse when a woman is a dean and it's called a deanes or something like that. which really violates the standard forms of language and leads to delusions and children learning language. I would even go so far as to appear in a society that affects more than a language in gender equality and issues of family relations, where on the other hand, in some texts, as you know, you can see, for example, that there is a parent one and a parent two. So, how long can all this go? In any case, I would advocate proper respect for the Serbian language in accordance with modern flows, not at its harm and of course ask, recommend or whatever power the future government has to put here in the Assembly this Law on Language and Letters, because the ministry has already worked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69305	The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69306	The language and letter law did not come into the procedure of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. So it's not our responsibility why we're not discussing him. I would very much like to discuss it here to see how interesting this is for all MPs, and it is a great pleasure for me to be married to MPs, pay attention to how I express myself, women MPs here plead on this issue, and as you see here as women, we do not want to change the spirit of the Serbian language. What is important – the woman was a reporter in front of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts when it was necessary to take a stand on the phenomena of Serbian language failure in the last... She's not an academic. )......................................................................................................... She was not an academic, academia, and what do you know about what we are now trying to do from the Serbian language something that the Serbian language has never been. We are mixing something today in the 21st century in Serbia. There aren't any colleagues who, when they answer their word, I can't stop myself from correcting them here, because we had a chance when it was the Army Law to say "soldiers" and "soldiers," I have to say, my stomach turned. It may be my ambition to be a defence minister someday, but I will insist that no one ever use the word soldier because it does not exist in Serbian. It's a soldier's wife or someone who drives and runs a crane can't be a cranisque in Serbian. We mix what's possible in Anglo-Saxon languages. For example, in German you have a female for everyone, so they have a lawyer lawyer who was always in German and also in Croatian. Not with us. I don't know if it's a proper amendment to Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and do you -- delete this picture of what we are talking about here today as women MPs. I'm not sure she guessed that eradicating is the right way, let me tell you. We really don't have that birth equality office, we don't need that. That's what Minister Djordjevic's portfolio does. I know that they, that it is their exclusive jurisdiction, and whether there is a co-ordination body or not in the Serbian government. I know that such a body has been formed in the past government of the Republic of Serbia, in this one it is not, by some initiative it remains, but by the rules it should be formed when it calls on each government, because each government is something new. There are no governments in continuity. It does not exist, as there are no parliaments in continuity, but each time they are established. If they have simply blackmailed you, that in laws relating to culture, you are changing Serbian, you are free to say no, because you will have great support for all MPs here, especially women who are involved in politics, because we are women, we want to be equal. One of those letters that teaches us every day is democracy, she once said to be, as she said, more equal. You can hear a lot of things here. It is interesting to study Serbian in parliament and where this is going, she said we should be more equal. No, we try to be equal with fellow Members of the men, but that doesn't mean that we will agree with every stupidity that is simply imposed on us here and that we are well-intentioned, that there are 50% more of us in the voting body, and now, and in the population, we find some right measure that our capacities are being exploited and that we don't have that limit to dealing with certain professions just because we're women, but we're not going to participate in the issue of gender equality making a circus and corrupting the Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69307	Right on the replica, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69308	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Gojkovic. Yes, I asked for the whole member to be deleted, where what you and I are potentialing for, and what the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts called on, should not be emphasized here, especially right now, by this Article 3, because that is understood. If we had, Mr. Minister, the situation that in some context should indicate a function that is of female importance, let me give you an example. The first female cosmonaut Valentina Tereškova, who flew into space, you will write the first woman cosmonaut, and you won't write a cosmonaut, or here, to remember Mrs Gojkovic, in this restored multi-party, the first female vice president of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly, was the first woman to be elected after 50 years of communist rule to be elected vice president, then the Federal Assembly. Yeah. So we can't play with anything. I didn't think it was your intention, but when you told me, Mr. Minister, that this was what the birth equality office asked you to do, so, as Mrs. Gojkovic puts it, it just turned something over to me, because you know who they are to make a point, whether it's right or not in Serbian. You know who it is, what it is, who we are and how the interests that are generic in men and women are related to both men and women, that's something that's neutral and now they need to talk to us. You know, it's been so loud in my ears for so many years, it's been sick that Gordana Comić is potentialing the MP, the activist, I don't know what, all that twisting. At the same time, the amended Serbian Spell came out. I really told her, she saw her after a short time and bought it to look a little bit and because of some other coins that came out there, so the authors of that changed Serbian dictionary explained why. But they also tried in various ways to explain that through other forms the Serbian language is corrupt. The fact that every language is alive is one aspect, but the Serbian language has its own grammar and what's right is something that we have to respect, because we are the National Assembly and we know exactly how to use the official Cyrillic letter and language.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69309	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69310	Thank you. Yeah, well, there was a lapus on my side. Of course, it's not an office. It's not a matter of great importance. Okay, but strictly pedantically speaking, that's true, there's no office. So, let me just try to figure out what I'm talking about. I mean with strictly formal, normically formally speaking, you're right, if anything is considered a norm, then it's a surplus to get it into the legal text. However, on the other hand, you said yourself, here is the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic pointed out, and you said that there is a strong uplift and strong intervention regarding changing the norm, through a colloquial term, through newspaper articles, etc. With that in mind, I don't think this possible surplus that can be assumed to be excess is causing damage to the rest of the principle that we stand for. Look, there's another case, just for the sake of illustration, where the Standardisation Committee took a stand 15 years ago, and we are witnessing that it is not respected to a large extent, the EU's common currency is called, what in Serbian? It is called the euro, because in all EU countries, this currency is called what is called the continent of Europe in a moving language, and in short, so that I do not now list everything said in every language in Europe. Therefore, the euro is said to be said in Serbian and the standard is recognised, recognised and explained. However, we at the public service, the IT programme, on the news, and even in officials, various persons, communication institutions and verbal and written ones, we have that currency being called the euro. I want to say that the modern language, including the modern Serbian language, is exposed to various challenges and threats, and that regardless of the strict formality of your position, I do not see that this results in damage, but finally MPs can vote against this, or vote for yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69311	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69312	I'm not looking for a replica, no matter what you give me. They say, "We will be defending ourselves in the last days of the Serbian language." I noticed that, really as half-written or illiterate people we speak the euro, the euro. Well, you can't use foreign words in our language, because it's the euro, because it's Europe. That way, we can't even have any interest in pretending, making up and imagining what they'd say about a woman who's doing a certain job, let's say the judge. What a woman is, a judge. They now say according to the new judge. So what does it look like? It looks like dishes, pots, pots. That's the judge, I'm going to the judge, whether she's a woman or a man, sitting in court and judging me and doing her job equally well. We will call it what it is in Serbian or someone will introduce new standards and start us from small feet, from our generation there won't be some scale in that case, but from small feet to teach them some new language. Either I tell the judge, so when I go into the courtroom or I have to communicate with someone whose new language he calls, I don't know how either. And that's it, we're representatives of citizens and citizens, we can say that because it exists in our language and on behalf of all these citizens and citizens, so we don't create a comedy that Zoran Radmilovic was a maestro, and that's right back then when he was alive and was a bard of our acting, he made fun of us in the right way, that we really defend ourselves here in our language and spelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69313	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69314	It's really hard to resist and not get involved in this debate, and I'm going to do it very briefly in order to somehow show up at some expressions that just look so nakaradically. One is this judge who was spoken of by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, but this attempt to keep every word, and you do so in the laws, and that is why we are, in principle, asking in every law to delete it, is always about Article 2(2) where you say that every term from the law is used in another generation. It's simply not possible, as is not possible for a midwife, if a man's grandmother is called a midwife or I guess it's not normal, so it's not normal for a woman who's a welder to call as a welder, and so it's only possible, if we're going to follow those rules. Logoped, what do you call a logod? Logopedica, is that normal? If someone's a goalie, what's a goalie, a goalie, what is it? It's just amazing. What do you call the secretary? The secretary, the secretary and the secretary are not the same. You have the Ministry and the secretary and the secretary, and if she's both your wives, how do you tell them apart? Secretary Mila and Secretary Jovanka. It's just amazing. So, we need this amendment to be accepted in order to avoid you from the government in the future to deliver such proposals. Really, we could list as many words as you want and these are simple word rags, these are some coins that don't sound natural, they don't say naturally, they don't mean anything at all. You know, there are some constitutional categories, the MP is a constitutional category and can't be a Member. The president is a constitutional category and cannot be president. Simply what's called this trustee of equality is a legal category, and we have a trustee of equality who is always fighting for some welders, for some logopedics, for some psychologists, sociology, etc. It can't be like that and don't make fun of your beautiful Serbian language. There are expressions that are due to progress and technology, etc. We don't have any in our language and we use some foreign expressions. It's something we have to and what's right, but where we have a normal language, it's really unnecessary to spoil it with these nonexistent coins to please me, I don't know who. In the government, I guess, the president of the Commission, Zorana Mihajlovic, was at least that way in the media. I don't know if she's the minister, if she doesn't know what, the minister is if we're still going by law. Is she, I don't know, a contractor with "Bechtel" or is she someone who concluded a contract with "Bechtel"? Is she the recipient of that part of the money that that director of Railways took, etc? It doesn't work, it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69315	Mr Vukosavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69316	It seems that in the middle, the honourable MPs, Mrs. Radeta, there is a misunderstanding. That all you affirm is true, and this provision in the law as it stands protects that judgment and the attitude that you stand for. Your colleague, Mrs Jovanovic, felt that this was a surplus, that this was a surplus, not that they were affirming the counter-thesis that you were now practicing with law. So this legal provision does not allow these options which you are now instructions, so the opposite of the permission does not allow, protects, the only time for a small debate we have already exhausted is whether this is necessary, since it is understood, or not necessary. Therefore, it certainly does not threaten such a member of the law, it is just a protective measure against these grotesque misunderstandings that you have cited as truly sad examples of linguistic abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69317	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69318	Mr. Minister, my respects, but don't touch my colleagues who I loved today, my heart is so much for them, and what I've heard from them is the most joy I've ever experienced in this congregation. Now I'm going to go with my exposure, with one saying to the people, two, come on, let's not be stingy – I see a frog to weave, and then I lift my foot up. There are some in Serbia, unfortunately, who can be identified with this proverb. Someone has come to mind to destroy the Serbian language and to make it an indignant language, and it is therefore made up to be a writer – a pussy, to be a pedagogogogic – a pedagogical woman, I do not know that there is any technology on all sides as much as you want. Thank you, colleagues, for fighting and not allowing this to be introduced into Serbian. I had a constant discussion with one of my dear colleagues about it and I tell her – you are not a Member, a letter is a written document sent once or more people etc. Now, there's another proverb, so it won't say two proverbs, so one of them is lying. No, the other proverb says, "The morning is smarter than the night." But when someone's stupid, it doesn't matter if it's morning or night. Therefore, we will not let those who do not distinguish us from the morning of the night guide us, but rather want our Serbian language to be as our ancestors have left us and to leave it to our descendants, both beautiful and the best and the purest. What else do I resent my brothers and my sisters for the Serbs? We are a people who do not respect their own. He respects everything that's other people's. And, today, in this law, you will see that we have one amendment that has been accepted and which says – Serbia's archive in the future will be called the State Archives of Serbia, right, Minister? It's a big mistake. No, the state archive of Serbia, so that Serbia is ultimately, not, but the Serbian state archive. Serbia comes first. We must take care of this Serbia of ours. It's our country the only one we have in the world. I want it to be -- the Serbian National Museum, the Serbian National Theatre, the Serbian National Assembly, and with us, it's all Serbian somewhere in the end. Those whose Serbia and Serbia are not at heart, they make good use of it and say, "Let us strike at them, they have a soul, they have a heart, they will allow everything, and we will slowly destroy it." Today, my dear colleagues and all of us here have proven that this is Serbian for us first and that we will fight for it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69319	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69320	Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, I had no intention of talking about this because Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly knows it better than I do. I must say so, and a certain number of MPs. Let's, however, as a professor who worked with students for years and students, let's say that we were still learning logic during high school, remember? By the way, man, what did we mean? By the name of a woman? This, Madam President, Maja Gojkovic is absolutely right. He can't be president. I'll say why, in my opinion, we should stick to our truly Serbian language. When the president is said, it is understood by that term and the female person, and there is really no dilemma. President, MP, so you learned the Latin language, as well as the Old Slovenian letter, the letter of his Holiness Patriarch Paul, Christmas. etc. People, you're absolutely right, and you, Mr. Arsic, and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and two ladies on the right, Radeta and in that part. So there's no dilemma. Why did that happen? This is my opinion, I'm not saying it's true. In a way, it was intended to stand out to give equality stronger than it is in that part, but it doesn't mean anything. The equality of women we must ensure in practice. And who's got to secure that? Not only those, but we men too. That's the point. Women should not fight for the post of National Assembly President, but we men must ensure that. That's it, and you're absolutely right about those of you who discussed it. It's on one side. On the other hand, it's true that it's an imposition, I'm not a pagan, but I'd like to be denied by the Gentiles, by imposing certain standards that don't exist in Serbian. I'll set an example. To me, a colleague who was the dean of a university, who made me even get fired in a third degree, said so – Mr. Atlagic, you speak Serbian. I say, are you normal? I speak Serbian. Then I ask him what language the Montenegrins speak is Montenegrin or Croat? You know what happened with that? To break the Serbian ethnicity in general. In Serbian, Serbs speak. No, they don't speak in Bosnia. So that's it breaking state and national identity through language. That's the point. You see, Croatians say train – lightning. I'll never say that. As they're going to tell the conductor on the train, here's someone to tell me. Lightning cartoroo drill, and I'll never say it. I said that in the Croatian Parliament in the 1990s, but I respect others. As the rooster says - morning click. You call him, it's for me. Drivery north – compass, bus, etc. Now 20 years later, they leave a little bit and see that it's just nonsense. Then why were you saying that? Because it was in a way to point out that Croatia is a state that no one will deny. But you can't impose words to separate one at that time of language. As they do from us, the brotherly republics of the former, from a neighboring country. So that's the point. You can't say Montenegrin. It's out of your mind. Miloorac. What's wrong with him? Round-breathing waistband – belt. It's out of your mind. You're absolutely right. Now, according to this, 20 years of education and education, education was abolished, and then education or education was instituted. Education in one country, I don't want to pick them up because of time, means education and education in the West. In another, it doesn't mean education. It's imposed. We have a wonderful Serbian word – education and education. Then we took only education because we were forced to kick out of school as factors of education. Our respected minister, Sarcevic, who has returned the concept of education and education now, and we will ask for the strategy to be called the development strategy for education and education, which is both Serbian and traditional. I'm not a pagan, but these are for language standardisation quite right in that sense. We guard our Serbian language without the intention of reducing anyone else's. That's the point. Let's not involve the nation and the state. The nation is one thing, the state is another. When you say state and national sovereignty. In Serbian, other countries can speak, as is English, and speak. You know it better than I do. I'm not a pagan. You're right, Mrs. Gojkovic, there's no American. It's coming to its place a little bit. Personally, I think he wanted to emphasize women's equality. They have nothing to gain. It means that they have complete equality, not that they fight. I guess that's what we have to secure. What did the constitutional category say? If we point that out in women, then they segregate, they'll never achieve their rights. I'm glad they put it on the agenda now. I really agree, but let's do it the way it goes. So it can't be Serbian, it can be Serbian. Accordingly, in neighboring countries, you draw conclusions. If it's a machine gun, how's the woman? Here, somebody answer me. What, machine gun, machine gun? You say that, I don't. We can caricate to heaven and so forth. So, worker – worker. Someone says "worker," but I'm going to say "worker," "enlightener," "and I don't want an educator and so many thousands of examples." I'm not a pagan, but that's what I mean. Now that I've taken a word on the archives, please, it's really the law, you're absolutely right, after a long number of years. I must commend Novi Sad and the New Sad leadership, which the city of Novi Sad has received new archives, after how many years, we haven't received such a building. I think he's absolutely right, and it's probably going to be the honourable MP Micin and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic talking, they know it better than I do, but when I take the word that we support it. Why Novi Sad? I don't want to talk about it, because Mrs. Gojkovic knows it better than I do, because they're Novosadians, and I have no intention of talking about it. Let me just say two sentences that I support when the amendment comes in order for at least two reasons. First, what Novi Sad deserves, as the capital of a culture where traditional cultural institutions are located, on the one hand, and what is the pearl of the ethics of national minorities. It's a pearl. The archive will not only be for Serbs, but for all nations that are located, and in Vojvodina, not only in Novi Sad, and that is the essence. The builder of the archives will be Hungarians and Serbs and all others. The archivists who deal with the profession know that. Let me repeat, unfortunately, we don't have archivistics as auxiliary historical science. That's what I've been talking about for two days, three days, and I'm gonna stand my ground as long as I'm alive to get one piece of people to do it. Furthermore, we spoke here yesterday as much as we have in the diaspora of our people, in 13 countries two million and something, but honourable MPs, we have 350,000 Serbian cannons. Can you imagine? And with toponomastic as an auxiliary historical science, here, let me be told by someone who deals in this country? It's a tragedy. It's a good thing the archives, for the Novosadians, are really all praises, but now we're going to provide archivists, and they have good scientific workers, there, indeed. Archives as an institution where archives are stored and used. The Nova Sad has earned it for a number of reasons, and my colleagues will talk about it. I'll never say a letter, and you speak. I will always say, the honourable MP for both women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69321	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69322	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the path that the historical archive in Leskovac had passed since its founding was extremely difficult. Thanks to the Ministry of Culture and Information and the town of Leskovac the last few years large funds have been allocated to culture and thus also to the archive. In order to solve the problem of the archive building, the Archive has competed with the Ministry of Culture and Information for financial resources approved for the project of the project of parcelisation, an idea solution for the facility, an idea project for reconstruction and a project for the implementation and construction of the dedicated object of the historical archive. The special project provided funds for the purchase and installation of archival shelves, installation of video surveillance and fire alarms from the Ministry of Culture and Information. Our efforts to make the development of the information system much easier today. The historic archives of the town of Leskovec, first started with the digitisation of the archival building, the acquisition of the most modern digitisation apparatus. In 2016, in the competition for funding and co-financing of projects at the Ministry of Culture and Information through the Digitalisation of Archival Building project, and by the Commission's decision of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the archives have been identified as means of purchasing a modern scanner, which has launched the digitisation of an archive building owned by the archive. The importance of introducing information into the archive structure is thus greater. Archive building users can access the necessary data in a quick and simple way. Archivers can provide faster information that is required of them, or they can get the information they need to work with archival construction faster. The law on the basis of which the Archives has worked so far was passed in 1994. After that period, there were major changes as regards documents, the use of electronic documents, digitisation and modernisation took place. For this reason, it is necessary to support the proposal of this law, and all in order to protect and preserve archival construction and registration materials, both in the field and in the archive itself. It is necessary for all of us, for future generations, for this law to come to life and pay attention to this very important institution of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69323	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, archive construction is extremely culturally good at the general interest in the state of Serbia and for this reason must enjoy the highest form of protection. Unfortunately, the situation is that we have a lot of gaps in this area. I don't want to blame only this minister and this ministry, the situation used to be worse. We had cases that we found some very important documents on fleas and were saved that way. But who knows, maybe it was God's will, that it was the only way to save some valuable document. During his review of the previous law, the minister spoke of a Serbian cultural space. I agree with you here. Serbia's cultural space is much wider than the administrative borders of the Serbian state. That's what the Russians call in their case - the Russian world. The cultural and archival structure outside Serbia's administrative borders must also be taken into account, and perhaps there are more important buildings than we do. Let me just mention Hilandar. There is indeed a very important, perhaps the most important part, of Serbian cultural buildings, so that it must be taken care of. I'd just draw attention to one thing that's been going on lately, about Montenegro. The hand of St John the Baptist is mentioned. We know that the hand of St John's Baptist in Montenegro arrived during the Second World War from Serbia. I ask the minister - did he try and have any chance of doing something to bring this cultural good back to the state of Serbia, where did it go to Montenegro?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69325	The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69326	Thank you. Here's just the first brief explanation regarding the amendment you've submitted. Essentially speaking, you're right. However, formally, depending on its importance, the archival structure is classified as other things, into three categories -- cultural good, cultural good of great importance and cultural good of exceptional importance, as foreseen by the law. In other words, we cannot call all the archival works culturally of exceptional importance, with parts of the archival building being declared culturally beneficial in the law of the envisaged procedure. That's the difference now why this amendment cannot be accepted. By accepting the possibility, we would declare all archival structures the highest category, which is culturally good of exceptional importance, and simply the three-step structure of cultural goods, by law. As for the hand of St. John, again, formally speaking, it is not culturally good because it has not been declared culturally good. It's a relic. Of course, she is in a Christian world of invaluable importance. The fact is, she got there to be hidden or hidden from the circumstances of World War II. She was handed over for custody because they brought it from Russia after the revolution and handed it over to the Karadjordjevic family, who left it there for safekeeping, and then it remained there during the SFRY. We'll see. The correct answer to your question is - no, with this in mind we haven't taken any initiative, but, in any case, it's worth serious consideration.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69327	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69328	You gave me an answer in part to what applies to the hand of St. John the Baptist. Whether they call it a relic or a cultural good, but it's a culturally good relic of planetary importance. For the whole Christian world, it's something of great importance. It may be one of the most important and significant cultural goods or relics in the whole world. God thus appointed the hand of John the Baptizer to be here for a period of time. Unfortunately, we see some things happening in Montenegro now. I don't want to blame your ministry, it's not only in the jurisdiction of your ministry, but also in the state of Serbia-Montenegro, the Serbian Orthodox Church and everything else, but I don't think we should go over it so easily. At least let it be said that it is the thing whose residence is before it was transferred to the Ostroga, later to the Cetitian monastery, that the thing was owned by the Serbian state and that by some logic it should perhaps return. We know it came from Russia to our home. If necessary, let him go back there, but it would be a shame to treat it in an irresponsible way, as I now think he is doing in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69329	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69330	Dear colleagues and colleagues, just before I spoke, I mentioned that my opinion that everything we have today in Serbia, and which is Serbian, should be potentiated by the fact that, first of all, it was Serbian, so instead of Radio Television of Serbia, it should be Serbian radio television, and so I said, I didn't mention the television before, I didn't have anything to do with television, but I said, instead of the Serbian State Archives, it would be much better to say, the Serbian state archive. And a dear friend of mine, who is a great expert in culture and other things calls me and says it's a mistake, because there are buildings in that archive connected to other peoples, etc. It's not a problem what's going to happen in that archive, it's a problem to know that it's Serbian, and that's why I'm still staying on the issue, that we should respect our country, our people, and everything that's tied up, should be prefixed -- Serbian at first. And that is why I am still convinced that this should be the Serbian state archive, and in it it is normal to have buildings, which are not only about the Serbian people, but also about Serbia, but also about everything in the archive. So it will be the Serbian cultural art society and that, as other people, our RTS TV, are doing so, and among those mentioned by this colleague from the first bench, what HRT said was Croatian Radio Television. So, others respect their own, and they make their point, and we Serbs, for some reason, for centuries what we don't raise ours to the pedestal, don't say it with pride, but not to blame others, let it be on the side. It used to be all Yugoslav, so we had the Yugoslav Drama Theatre, so Yugoslav that, then Yugoslav, I don't know the hockey alliance. Now that we've split up with Yugoslavia and the Yugoslavs, we don't raise our Serbians up where they belong, we're pushing them into a corner. No, and that should be the basis of every culture minister, every culture ministry, each of us individually to respect and appreciate what is ours and to admire it. I told my students, I had some rules of management, in this subject of management, and I told them - be proud of your origin, and always point out who you are and what you are, anywhere you are, at any point in the globe, with pride say - I am Roma, I am Serbian, I am, I don't know that and that. That's how we should behave, both today and in the future. Everything that's ours should be first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69331	Right on line, Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69332	Just one add-on. So, the consideration that you've affirmed is just one story, one topic that has been discussed quite often. This society hasn't been defined in general yet, although I think there are a lot of reasons for this guy's point of view, when and if it's defined, we're going to change this too. It's not the main accent, I think, although it may be, but it's the finesse thing, right at the Ministry of Culture. There is an army in this country, fortunately for our pride. What's the name of this army? (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: Do not sin.) Well, I know, I'm telling you now that there's a whole corps of things and circumstances that aren't related to the Ministry of Culture. I support your views intimately, but I want to say that society and legislative bodies and at all political parties and those who decide on things in this country should solve this whole approach in an identical way. We have a National Bank called what? It's called the National Bank of Serbia, and it's not called the Serbian National Bank. We have the Army of Serbia, not the Serb army. Personally, it seems to me that this is a solution that you stand for more rationally and logically and that corresponds to historical circumstances but also to the practice that exists in many other countries, but we simply can't start right now from this situation to solve it, but we should solve it with one swing and then we know what the principle is, as well as in these linguistic doubts, because if we're doing it in a palitative way, we're back on the ground of confusion. But I certainly think that you are generally right, but, I say, there are different institutions and institutions of this country that need a solution based on the identity of logic and identity of approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69333	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69334	Mr. Minister, I'm very glad we understand each other. We agree that what I'm saying is right. Who's it gonna start with? Here, let it begin with you and me. You're in a place where you can initiate it. Today our colleagues from the Army and our colleagues from the People's Bank listen, and they all have to come from heel to head and say, "Wait a minute, I'm... Jorgenka Tabakovic, my sister, even until yesterday we were brother and sister, perhaps not now, here we are, and there our brothers were radicals... But my sister has to start it herself and say -- Serbian National Bank, people, so is that 200 times better than the National Bank of Serbia? Well, by the time they get to Serbia, the National Bank gets drunk, and it gets tired and it doesn't finally hear Serbia. Serbia's army. No, the Serbian army, people, an army that's been through so many wars. So many victories we've won, we've killed people for it, and now someone's gonna come and say, "No, wait for it to stop there somewhere." What was the name of this army when it was Yugoslavia? The Yugoslav People's Army. Look, they were silly, they knew that Yugoslavia and we were smart so they put an end to Serbia. We won't, Minister. Here, the two of us are going to head the column and suggest that both Vulina and Jorgenka Tabakovic, maybe they'll invite us to lunch, who knows. (Miss Radeta: Serbian Railway.) Ma, everything, sister, all Serbian to be. Everything. The Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Progressive Party, all to be. Let these guys out there who don't know who they are or what they are, text messages, and I don't know what they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69335	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to replicate Professor Stojmirovic, he and I will sit down, and we will discuss it, and if he convinces me, I will accept it, the state archive of Serbia. I really think that architip and archival citizens are art that doesn't have to be just Serbian by something to be in a single border. We need to understand that culture and economy cannot have a limit, they have to cross their borders, too, and accept that much is coming and going to be big, wide and huge. There are a lot of arguments in what Mr Stojmirovic says and I am certainly no smaller Serb than he is, I don't think I'm bigger. But this isn't the subject. I wanted to say something about the question – how to return the hand of John the Baptist? We have one of the greatest obligations, is that how to restore King Milutin's bridge? King Milutin's teams are the biggest Serbian national issue, because our greatest curator, the man who made the most in Serbia, the man who left us with the biggest indemnity, and if he had left only Gracanica and the Mother of Lijeljka, would have left over 40 monasteries and churches. Today he is in Bulgaria, in Sofia and is not in his grave in his church. But in order to achieve that, we must raise, first of all, Banjska, we must return Banjska's gold, we must make conditions, because in these conditions we cannot ask for the king to return. So much is up to us. I'm saying all of this for one reason, we need to know the importance of returning this page to the Gospel of Miroslav. It's a move that doesn't work. It's hard to accept. This must be a huge diplomatic activity and a huge president's trust in the president, a great love of one nation towards another in order to achieve this, in order to restore such value to the people, except in the case of obvious robberies. The biggest robber of the last known decades was Field Marshal Gering, but it's something else, it's something that, of course, is normal to return. Today, however, Germany is having a very difficult time returning many artifacts to Israel, many works of art, many things. We have enormous problems, over 10,000 church-art cases from Kosovo and Metohija only since the international community came to the secret market of real estate of Europe and the world stolen. Our problems with these things are huge, but a lot of things are up to us, a lot of conditions we have to do and I don't know if our generation and these generations will be able to do it. If we were to analyze today what it meant to return to the St. Save and how long this diplomacy took to get me St. We get Sava back in Serbia, including Stefan Nemanja and everything we've managed to get back, then we'd just know what that means. Did the English return anything from their national museum to ancient Greece? If you want to see the true ancient Greece go to London, not the Acropoly, you'll see more. They don't return a single piece. It doesn't, it's not practice. Of course, we're not the most important, the greatest, so that we can use some force to get it back. So these are very serious problems and a very large responsibility that this generation will not end, but will only remain for the next generation. Thank you. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: I want a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69337	He can't, pal, not at all. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: He called me. Who? Well, I don't think you're from different parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69338	I would very much like to talk to my colleague Stojmirovic because he has really started a topic that deserves attention in the National Assembly, but not in a way that just before he says that he is not a smaller Serb than his colleague Stojmirovic and so on, it cannot be measured whether he is a smaller or bigger Serb, a Serb, or someone who can be a good Serb, and someone who can be a Serb at birth and a traitor, and who is smaller and who is bigger does not exist. It seems to me that after all... How many hours we've been discussing this issue, that we're not fully aware of the importance of the historical archive of the archive building. So archive construction is of paramount importance for the state, for state and national interests. Unfortunately, we have been having a big problem since October 5th, then all our archives are open to Natasa Kandic and the Hague investigators and somehow it seems that since then there has been no state secrets, no military secrets, no official secrets, no secrets to be kept in the archives, but we have to overcome it. We need to re-establish some serious system. You ministers know for certain that precisely because of the importance of the historical archive in many countries, the archives are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, because of the importance, for the sake of preservation and so on. So, such a serious state even takes care of it. Of course, I'm not diminishing the importance of your ministry here, but I'm just saying how important it is and how it can reach our consciousness of what we're actually talking about here today, it's not just whether it's going to be one or another formality that we're all talking about, of course. The founder of the state archive, the founder of the country's archives, can only be a state. The state can transfer some of its founding rights to other organs. You have here proposed or accepted an amendment to be an AP Vojvodina and to be the City of Belgrade. You had to put both AP Kosovo and Metohija. It's our constitutional obligation. At this point, we wouldn't be able to realize it, but the law has to stand. When it comes to public archives of national minorities, such public archives cannot be formed. So, archives, I repeat, must be under state authority. The State shall also take care of the managing authorities and the financing. The state can transfer part of its management rights. You have an example in Senti. I suppose you know that. In Sainta, 50% of the founding rights were transferred to the national minority of Hungary and they function there and that's fine. We really should respect all the rights of all national minorities in Serbia, the world's highest-level rights, but we must not, minority, be ashamed to say that we are Serbs and that this is the state of Serbia and that Serbian national interests are a priority. Indeed, it is not that it is no sin. Comrade Stojmirovic, you are absolutely right. You have the support for what you just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69339	Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69340	Comrade Arsic, I apologize. I was wrong earlier. You were right. What was I gonna say? I fully support my colleague Radet, because what I was about to say doesn't mean if it's a Serbian state archive, it's just about the building that's about Serbia. Well, of course, it has different and diverse structures, but Serbia is the one that keeps the archive, manages, watches out, etc. (Veritre Radeta: I responds.) I'm responding. As my colleague said earlier, which I agree with, I say, a smaller Serb, perhaps the difference between us in a few kilograms, is not a problem, it is true that there is something Greek in England, it is true that Germany has a lot of what is from Greece, from Serbia. Why? Because it's the thieving and looting countries that have been harassing the whole world and taking someone's good, someone's art, something worth it. They stole it all and took it to them. It ended up somewhere in museums, archives, somewhere private, and that doesn't mean there's no good in ours anywhere. He's got them. There are many and many of them, Minister, and you are right, but all that is in Serbia, in our archives, is under the patronage of the Serbian State Archives, and so I say, so I point out that everything that is ours is known, let it be seen that we value our country and what is Serbian, to appreciate, to respect and to protect. We've shown ourselves... Here, my colleague Krlic is not here, I mention him, but he won't be angry, he's a real prototype of an average Serb. Everyone else is nice and good, don't let me have the Serbians, let's do it anyway. Well, I don't mind, but I won't let Novak Djokovic be any English or Hungarian or I don't know whose tennis player, even though he's playing in that territory. He's our treasure and wealth. So we have to protect, respect and preserve all of this. As my colleague Krlić said, not generations to come. There are no generations, there are generations, there are generations, there are generations, and when we figure it out, we're going to get back much faster and what others have taken from us, they've taken from us, they've taken from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69341	The word has a folk MP, Mrs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69342	Dear Chairman, I'd like to make an amendment. Namely, the historical archive dates back to 1948 and is located in a building in the Niška Fortress, and the building was built in 1890 for the needs of the Serbian Army cartographic department at the time. The building was declared a cultural monument in 1959. In the historical archives in the 907 funds, about four thousand long meters of archival building is preserved, which is listed as cultural goods. It covers all areas of social life – administration, public services, justice, education, economy, banking, socio-political organisations, religious institutions and organisations, as well as significant family and personal archive funds. The archive also contains collections of invitations, postcards, card cards, posters, photographs and varia collections. The oldest document kept in the historical archive dates back to 1737 and it's about copper. Why is this law on archival construction and archival activity significant? Well, it is important because if we consider the importance of an archival building not only for history, science and culture, but also for meeting the needs of individuals, i.e. citizens who, on the basis of data from an archival building, exercise their rights. Of course, it is necessary to edit this matter in order to preserve this cultural good. There's something else I want to say. Minister Vukosavljevic, you once visited the town of Nis and said that Nis is a very agile local self-government that works quality in the area of culture. You said the city of Nis has its own cultural atmosphere, rich tradition and many talented people in the area of culture. I mean, it's really like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69343	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69344	Thank you. I would like to mention the same thing as my colleague Ljubica for the historical archive, where in one place everything is worth – history and everything we need to know. One more thing, which is very important, it's the history archive. It's just like Professor Fleischman just said. Stojmirovic, we must always support that our country of Serbia be above all else. Serbian, Serbia, it must always be first. I'll be third in line, Mr. Minister, if you want to be first, second Professor. Stojmirovic, who will ask for the word Serbian to always and in every place. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69345	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69346	Thank you. Here, we have now solved at least the first part of that equation who will be the first three, so the job in a few is easier, but I suggest that when and if there is a chance to discuss some adjustments to the Constitution and so on, what is the name of this Assembly officially, what is the government called? So we have a whole pyramid and a structure of relations in the hierarchy of the importance of institutions in this country, and if we now remove a certain ease of these comments, so to call it, if this business is to be taken seriously, then such an initiative should be serious and start from the place, that norm, or that act called the Constitution, where the institutions of the most important state are listed, as they are called, and when that thing goes that way, then we will quickly and easily reach the archives and others. Therefore, we remain in this agenda for the initiative, just to agree on what order of action is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69347	The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69348	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the adoption of the law should provide conditions and help to improve the protection of archival buildings, as well as cultural goods, as well as to affect the development of awareness of the importance of preserving archival heritage for future generations. The law allows the protection of archival construction as a cultural goods of particular importance for society, regardless of the format it is in. Equally, along with the classic analogue archival structure, digital archival structure is protected in paper form. I'd like to point out that just a few days ago we had a tweet from Vesna Pesic, former DOS leader, that the boycott wasn't helping, it was just a pipe in her head. I strongly condemn these calls by individuals on social networks sent to the president of the country. It's a spread of hate, it's a call to reckoning. Sending such messages is inadmissible from those who do not have their own policy, who have been campaigning in a senseless way for months and who have left Serbia in a difficult state. Should we again listen to someone’s calls for violence, threats, and should such a thing become a common and normal thing? It doesn't stop with the heifer being led. Such outbursts of hate speak of their incompetence that the citizens have seen and rejected. No one has the right to send messages like this. They're aware that the boycott won't do anything. It always says and shows the difference between decent, normal, responsible Serbia and those our political opponents advocate, who attack us every day. It's their picture and opportunity. They have nothing else to offer. They want to come to power without a choice. Citizens want better, stronger and more developed Serbia. Serbian citizens want a policy of investment, strengthening the economy, stronger Serbia, rather than a policy of threats and returning to the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69349	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69350	Just a few sentences. You're absolutely right, Mr. Minister, let me just say, when the archives are in the past how it was. Let's start with the neighbouring republics. Today in Zagreb, it is called the Croatian State Archives, and it was called the Croatian-Slavon-Dalmatia Earth Archives, etc. Also at the Serbian Archives, will they be called differently? You're absolutely right. There must be a number of things, primarily the Constitution to change, because they, the Croats, call the Croatian National Assembly, and we, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have no reason not to support this. Thank God we vote, the ruling coalition. But it's a good thing we've all discussed this. To have a nice discussion, to see that we have different opinions. It's the wealth of this assembly. I'd love for those of you who aren't here tonight, the DOS, to try, and they'd say their opinion. So, today in Dubrovnik is called the Croatian State Archives in Dubrovnik, the Croatian State Archives in Zagreb, but it is up to us to agree whether the Serbian Archives or the Serbian State Archives will remain, when the Constitution is changed, and then perhaps the Assembly will be called differently. That's good to see. As for language, I hope that law will come to this National Assembly too, and it is good that we talked about all this. I say once again, I'm very happy for the archives, the archives of the city of Novi Sad. When I have taken the word, you can be, too, and this Government is proud, and so is the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, which belongs once when the 166th page of the Gospel of Miroslav returned to where it belonged. That's huge stuff. Dear People's Messengers spoke of it today. No one could have done that before. There have been attempts, you know as well as I do, by many presidents of the Republic. It has succeeded this president because of the authority and reputation this country has, this government and this president and there is no dilemma, but also because of Russian President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, and also because of the return of these images. This is very important, because Miroslav's Gospel is one of the oldest, most significant and best monuments of the Serbian Cyrillic. Someone will say Serbian-Slovenian, but I say Serbian Cyrillics, etc. We've seen it, we've got attempts at doing it. I must say, in 2012 a scientific event was held in Zagreb, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts held, where it tried to do so. Of course it won't work. So the importance of that list is exceptional. Some say, "What do I need a leaf for?" So many attempts have been made by former presidents, for many years, etc. It worked. Do you know why it worked? It could only be a man whose national state interests are above all else, and patriotism. I know it hurts a lot when I say it now. Boris Tadic couldn't do that, and no one was defending him, because he said, quote, "What do I need an army for?" It's a finished quote. And our army today enjoys the reputation it enjoys and a certain level we have reached, a jealous level. Once again, the archives not only affirm the national identity of the Serb people, but also other peoples and, very importantly, national minorities. That's what we know that we're entering these facilities, etc. It is up to us now and national minorities to ensure that archivists use archival and library construction. It's a college problem, not the Ministry of Culture. But I know that now the government is working in agreement with most of the academic community, let's say, most of the members, and one small part that won't cooperate, that's another thing, and we're going in the right direction, what hasn't been going on for years. And that's the point. You said well, when the Constitution changes, we'll lead the debate, maybe we'll change everything. (President: Bringing the end. Thank you again for this Miroslav Gospel. He is one of the jewels of the calligraphic literacy of Serbian medieval and art in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69351	Thank you. Comrade Stojmirovic, I am sorry, the time spent by the SNS parliamentary group has been spent. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law defines archival structure as a cultural good of general interest, which enjoys special protection established by law, so the archival structure is protected regardless of whose ownership it is, or who it is with. However, there are many archival buildings, a lot of documentary material, records that are officially not known to exist, while some persons possess various materials that, by their content, are unequivocally archival, and that sometimes they do not know that it is of particular importance, of exceptional importance, and that it is the archival structure itself. Then, the problem is with individual units of local self-government that do not allocate enough funds to preserve a valuable archival building, which is a culturally authentic heritage from these areas. This is because there is not enough expertise in such environments to do research, which characterizes that environment, can be worth archiving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69353	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment of the SRS relating to the Bill on Archival Construction and Archival Action was submitted to Article 5 of Article 1 of the amendment, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia, Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are obliged to provide adequate conditions for the permanent preservation and protection of the archive building. As we know in Serbia, most archives carry out their work in very poor or difficult conditions, small rooms for accommodation of archival buildings, then a lack of expert personnel. So-placed archival structure in inadequate conditions, i.e. space is at risk of destruction and destruction. The legal framework since 1994, the Law on Culture and Good, has become obsolete. The adoption of a new bill should ensure full protection and preservation of the archival structure, as the archive document presents its timely material testimony to the existence and functioning of both states and societies, where citizens would exercise their rights based on data from the archival building. Archival architecture as a cultural good and testimony about national identity and every historical moment enjoys priority protection. The adoption of such a bill is also a necessary and possible solution to protect archival construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69355	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69356	Dear People's MP, therefore, if I understand correctly and read it correctly, your amendment refers to the language finesse. Is that right? I don't know if I hear from you. Nothing. If I understand correctly, I believe I am, your amendment refers to a subtle language finesse, you suggest, "they are mandatory", instead of saying, "they are." Is that the point? This is about synonyms, and in all the text of the law, in every place where such a provision stands, it is used: “they are in debt”, it might even be more regular: “they are in obligation”, not “they are mandatory”, but well now, it is still a more subtle thing. Therefore, it is a language concern of the same rank, you understand, whether or not they are obliged, if this is contained in your proposal to amend this article. I think it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69357	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 14(2), which is amended and read - the competent public archive gives consent to the list of categories of archive construction and documentary material. The competent public archive shall decide on the time limits for keeping them. Ladies and gentlemen, archive construction is culturally good and as such has an important place in Serbian cultural heritage. This law should have been passed much earlier, as it regulates an area of exceptional national value. I have to point out here that one of the biggest, actually the biggest problems in this area is the lack of space to store an archival building. Now, Mr. Arsic, I'm going to allow myself the right, I was just looking for a word, I realize that you didn't have the grounds to give me a word, when it was an expert debate about language, because I thought that as a linguist I could help, as an expert, to get some language breaks out. In fact, the Serbian language is both lexic and Semantically poorer than some other languages, for example, Russian or French. Our greatest linguist, Professor Aleksandar Belic, spoke of language as living matter, which is constantly developing, takes aliens and loans from other languages, but was very skeptical and felt that words of foreign origin should only be used where necessary. For example, I don’t know if we know, the Russian word is the verb “to apologize. ” It is typically a completely Russian word, accepted from Russian and detached in our speech area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69359	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69360	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as archival construction is concerned, it needs to prove the existence of some society and some state. What bothers me, which I have already said, if I write a book, I will write "We are all ourselves to blame" and by the reputation of Dimitri Ruvarec, who was the Croats, when they used Serbs against Hungarians, wrote in the magazine "Here's what you blame us for". That is how his book “Here is what you are to blame for us. ” Later, however, Serbian politicians who went to school in Vienna did not exactly listen to Dimitri Ruvarac and we paid dearly for our delusions. That's why I think writing a book, if not me, someone who can, “it's all our fault ” to make it worth it. It is my responsibility that the Serbian Archives be the Serbian Archives, because our culture, Serbian culture, was created after some other cultures. I won't give up Sirmium, I won't give up the Czar's city, I won't give up the Lepensky Vir. We live where other nations used to live. We've given ourselves up a lot. I studied elementary and high school and I didn't learn anything about, say, the history of ancient Serbs. First, I never knew he was becoming Lord Machineimir, that there was literacy and statehood before the one that was in history books. I didn't know that. I've never heard of the Wrestle Rebellion. The Vršak rebellion was the uprising of Serbs in Banat higher in dimensions than the First Serbian Uprising. The first Serbian uprising is actually a Vršačka rebellion. That's what those who follow the precancian history, which wasn't written in official history, should know. So, Teodor Vrsacki, who chased St. Sava's banner into Turks in 1594, was captured by Turks and skinned alive. He was caught in Vrsac, and the Turks skin him alive. Because of him, the musts of St. Sava were burned because of an uprising led by a priest, a Serbian Orthodox, Theodor Vrsacki. He was declared a saint, but we learned nothing from history because Serbian communists, led by an enemy soldier who is a state, made by their fathers with blood and heads, 30% of their ancestors and their fathers... So the country was torn apart by Serb communists led by an enemy soldier from World War I. They themselves dismembered a state created by the blood of their ancestors and accepted the distribution of the former Yugoslavia, communists, enemy soldiers, and arranged for the defeated nations to defeat the winners. Instead of charging them for war damage, we gave them the state, and they gave us, to express ourselves a little simply, to give us a shot in the ass. We were first kicked out of the Constitution, one, the other, the third, etc., and then kicked out of our own houses, and the Serbs were aggressors in their homes where they lived for 600 years. Nicely declare the state Tito gave you there and say – from today's constitutional people of Serbs, it is that they live here for 500-600 years, but from today there will be aggressors and you will declare them aggressors. That's why I think it's all our fault. What do we know about the Battle of Slancamen after the Austrian army retreated? In 1690, Charnojevic came to Belgrade and the Serbs left, Belgrade fell, I think it was about 1690. The battle at Slankamen is a great victory for Christians, and among them each third was a Serb. Of the 30,000 soldiers, 10,000 were Serbs. A major defeat of the Turkish army and the start of the end of Osmanli in the Balkans. What do we know about the Battle of Sainta? What do we know about that? Do we know that there is a canvas of 30 square meters that 100 years after that battle was painted by a painter? It was also a major defeat of the Turks because they lost 30,000 people. What do we know about predicated history? We don't know anything. What do we know about the karaoke? Do you know what karaoke means? Karakusha means black forest. It's a forest between Capca and Ruma. Why is it called a karaoke - a black forest? Because the Turks of the Serbs had been mass-disposed and they called it a caracuse, because they feared the Serbs and for them it was black that the niggers couldn't be, and for us it was a release from these various yokes. What do we know about the Sremish Kingdom? Did we teach her in history? Have we learned what the Sremish Kingdom is? Do we know that the Sremish Kingdom of Dragutin, in Debrecino, had a capital? Do we know his son's name was Vladislav? Did we learn that in history? We didn't. Communist history wanted to bring down Serbia, Serbia's culture, Serbia's narrow history of Serbia they called "atrocity". And don't tell me that only the Croats were Communists and Slovenians. The largest number of Partisans and communists were Serbs, ethnic Serbs. Whether they were in the souls of Serbs, I believe they were anti-Serbians, because they allowed the enemy soldier, the country in which it was killed, the previous state for which 30% of Serbs suffered for the Nis war target, to be torn apart by communists and on the skin of the Serb people in Jasenovac and so on, to tear it apart again. And instead of charging them for war damage, instead of being defeated, they're bigger winners than winners. They gave us a kick in the ass, kicked us out of the Constitution, kicked us out of their houses, and today the genocide people, the alleged Serbs, who ethnically cleaned up others, are the opposite. They are the most brutal, the Serbs are ethnically cleaned. Over a million Serbs from the former SFRY have been expelled from their hearths. Why? Because the interest of communists who inherited the interest of Vienna, Germany and so on and the Ottoman Empire is that there is no larger Serbia in the Balkans. That's where their interest was, and the communists just passed it on. They broke the state, Yugoslavia, created by Serbs and created aggressors and criminals, because they were the army of the former Yugoslavia and kept it safe. So I say, if I write a book, I'll write it down, it's all our fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69361	Thank you. Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69362	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll do it for a while. Well, here's from our esteemed colleague, Marijan Risticevic, we see what's in our subconscious. He says -- Serbian communists, Serbian communists. So, when something bad needs to be about us, then we can be the first ones in the world and it'll be devastating and ugly for us. The Minister and other colleagues here have said to change the Constitution, so once the Constitution changes, we'll change that too. Guys, there's a little concept in the Constitution that needs to be changed. We have a lot that we can change now and be Serbian, dominant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69363	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this article 31 speaks of microfilming and digitization of archival building. The article says that the job should be performed exclusively by archives. In my amendment, I asked that this work be done by other institutions and other institutions if they have technical and other options for such a thing, but under the supervision of the people in the archives to prevent any abuses. What was that I was looking for? For reasons that digitization of archival construction is not exactly that simple a job. There's a lot of things. He needs to pay special attention. There is a large archival structure, and we have a good part of the archival structure that is in such a state that it is only a matter of days when it will, for these technical reasons, be unusable because of wearout. So I think that this amendment should be considered to open up the possibility of speeding up digitisation and microfilming of an archival structure, and one way to do so is to ask for this one, as I have asked in my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69365	Thank you. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69366	We're somewhere near the end of the bar, as far as I'm concerned. This is the last amendment I've submitted, so maybe a little bit wider, maybe come back again, and maybe repeat some things, but first of all to remind me of the SRS programme when it comes to culture, since we're also talking about the Law on Culture and Archive. I've quoted one part of our programme today, but what I'm about to read now is very important, this one paragraph from our point 94 that says, it is necessary to regulate legal, financial and political conditions for the protection and use of cultural goods, as well as to carry out a full review of the criteria by which certain cultural goods and activities have been evaluated so far. This primarily refers to institutional forms of work such as the area of protection of cultural monuments, museum and archival activity, theatre and film, the work of cultural artistic societies, communities and associations, needs to define a list of priorities and determine the conditions by which financial resources would be invested, and that these priorities must meet two basic requirements - a qualitative aesthetic criterion of evaluation and a general national interest in investing in a given area of culture. You will pass this law and these laws, vote, and then, Minister, in the application of the law, you should exactly act in accordance with what I read when financial resources are determined that priorities must be established, that we no longer have the mistakes that have happened in the past, that state money is given for anti-state action. It simply must never happen in the country of Serbia again, and we will all admit that it has happened and we have talked about it these previous days when we even talked about these bill proposals. So, culture and what regulates this law and archival structure, as much as perhaps, at first glance may not seem to be so important, somehow people prefer to listen and talk about economics and something more tangible, but for the survival of one people they are these and how important topics, and since we talked and talked about the public service today, here's just to let you know, and maybe you know that for more than an hour at the Public Service there is no transmission of this work. We, dear colleagues, are no secret organization, and it is not a matter of knowing in public what is being voted on, but of hearing exactly what we are talking about and how we are talking about here. Which is who of the people who don't deal with politics and who don't apply the law in a specific case, who of these people is going to enter the "Official Messenger" to see what the text of some law that is passed here is. When we talk about it, we do not insist on it because it is important for us to see one of us on this Second RTS programme, but because we think it is extremely important that this flow of democracy must live seriously again, and that it must not happen that the sessions of the Assembly are not being transferred, or that transfers are being interrupted, whatever is on the agenda, and I repeat, especially when it comes to something as important as these two topics, and they are extremely important. Also, in the end, I would remind myself of what I, I guess yesterday or perhaps today, said that the SRS MPs in the National Assembly are trying to do, and we are quite certain and we are able to make a major contribution to the work of the National Assembly, we are helping both ministers and colleagues from the ruling coalition. When I say we help, I mean active participation in work, we make arguments, we give examples, we use parallel practice, in every way we try to draw attention to what Serbian radicals think is right or wrong, and what is in line with the SRS programme, certainly convinced that our programme is the best solution for all the problems that exist in the people today in Serbia. We, I remind, have submitted a request and today, Madam President of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic said that the signatures of more than 100,000 people, who have signed our request to ask us to put a new draft law on the perpetrators, which should be an executive job to return absolutely to the jurisdiction of the courts. Here, for four months, these signatures are being checked, and maybe they'll be checked by the end of this term, although I'm not sure. We also asked Minister Sarcevic, he promised, but failed to meet it, that in Serbia, an institute that will deal with the UN tribunal's verdicts is also important, and it is also important because of this law that we are talking about today. We believe that all of this is what we insist on and what we're looking for, general national interest and state interest. With you, Minister Vukosavljevic, we agreed that you would issue gathered parts of Handke and that it would be on Cyrillic and it is certainly good, as well as it is good that your Ministry co-financed the books of Momir Krsmanovic "The Blood Drina Flows". Also, we have repeatedly asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to similarise with Handke to show a friendly relationship with the Russian Federation, because it is our friend, to establish the diplomatic status of the Russian humanitarian centre at least as NATO soldiers who can follow the IPA agreement in Serbia. We still don't have a positive answer to that. We are pleased that Minister Sarčević also accepted our idea and that, as he said next year, he will abolish the admission exams for colleges, because our position is that everyone must be allowed to enroll in college and that regular study is free of charge, and that someone who wants to study for 100 years can study so much, but of course about the own cost or the cost of someone who is willing to finance it. What we have been looking for for months to the government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no answer, at least not positive, there is actually a negative one, they say that is impossible, and that is that the lowest wage and lowest pension in Serbia must be at this point at 37,000 dinars, because that is the amount of the lowest consumer basket. It may seem to you that now all of what I have listed may not be the most direct link to these bill proposals, but it certainly has to do with the work of the National Assembly, it has to do with the work of our parliamentary group and we are really very proud to make a maximum contribution and what we are trying to tell Serbian citizens how we would arrange certain segments of life and society. And when it comes to these two concrete laws, unfortunately, our amendments are not accepted, neither are our suggestions, as much as it seems in the course of the debate that we both agreed in many things with us and with our colleagues, we and our colleagues. However, you are the ruling majority, doing exactly as a specific EU directive prescribes, and we therefore have amendments and amendments to the law at any moment. We are at the end of this parliamentary term, and we will probably not be discussing these two laws until the end of this term, although you never know, you may soon realize that you have made several serious mistakes which are why we cannot vote for these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-23-0.u69367	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'd now be done with today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 1:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 19.00 hours.]]
