ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5079	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'll open the 188. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 186 and 187. Meeting of 19. In June 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. As prevented from attending today's meeting, MEPs are Schellhorn and Schenk. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 19.25 a.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:20]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5119	We are now getting to the current one. Hours on the subject: ‘Youth 25 Years of Dispute Resolution of South Tyrol’ On this occasion, I would like to welcome the guests of the gallery, who have partly arrived from South Tyrol and whom I would like to invite to a small reception after this debate. – Welcome! [[General appeal for the guests sitting on the gallery, including the President of the Council of the Federal Republic of Germany Sonja Ledl-Rossmann, former President of the National Council Dr. Andreas Khol, the head of the state of South Tyrol Dr. Arno Kompatscher, the Vice President of the South Tyrol Landtag Dr. Thomas Widmann, the representatives of the South Tyrol Landtag Dr. Ulli Mair, Sven Knoll and Andreas Pöder, as well as the country commander of the South Tyrol Sagittarius Elmar Thaler.]] That is why we are going into the debate. Mr Gahr is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5159	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Thank you for treating the topic of South Tyrol today in this current hour. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear guests from South Tyrol at the gallery! Dear spectators in front of the televisions! If we're here in the House today, 25th. The anniversary of the dispute between Austria and Italy before the UN is an occasion for reflection, but it is also an opportunity to recall the common history of South Tyrol, Tyrol and Austria. I am particularly pleased that political representatives from South Tyrol as well as representatives of the Schüttenbund attend this debate today. When you look into the past, you can learn and take a lot for the future. Therefore, allow me to take a common look at the past: In 1918, Tyrol was divided, South Tyrol was separated; the great powers and fate wanted it that way. South Tyrol took a sad story. The country was Italianized, the German language was banned in many areas, the people became a minority in Italy. With the option at the end of the 1930s people were expelled from their homes, people were taken everything, whole families were torn apart. South Tyrol settlements, South Tyrol names, South Tyrol costumes, South Tyrol clubs scattered across Austria still reminds of the locals who are expelled from their home country. The Second World War moved into the country. Finally, in 1946, a contract was concluded with the Paris Agreement, which we all know under the name of Gruber-De-Gasperi, establishing the basis for the autonomy of South Tyrol. Despite this contract, there was dissatisfaction, distrust and continued resistance to the course from Rome. Sigmundskron Castle was called for in 1957: Let's go of Trent! Politically, this was hardly going through, but there was international attention to South Tyrol. In 1960, Bruno Kreisky finally presented the topic to the United Nations for Austria, which called on the parties to resolve the conflict in agreement. In June 1961 – I am built in 1960 – resistance reached its peak. In the so-called fire night, massive explosive attacks were carried out throughout South Tyrol; Infrastructure was damaged. The freedom fighters responded to the oppression of the people in South Tyrol and tried to draw international attention to their dissatisfaction. As a result, there were many arrests, tortures and the so-called display processes – a dark chapter in the history of South Tyrol. Political negotiations in 1960 and 1969 were not successful, the conflicts were not settled. Only after difficult negotiations did the so-called Second Autonomous Statute enter into force in 1972. However, there was still dissatisfaction in the country of South Tyrol. The breakthrough in the minority conflict did not succeed until 1992, that is, many years later, with the so-called dispute resolution. Austria and Italy agreed to settle the dispute pending with the United Nations since 1960. The protection function of Austria for South Tyrol was questioned. It was the recently deceased then Foreign Minister Alois Mock, who fought with great personal commitment the dispute resolution before the UN. We are still grateful to him today. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] But we are also grateful for those people who have always fought for South Tyrol: Ludwig Steiner, of course also Bruno Kreisky, Erwin Niederwieser – present at the gallery today – the former President of the National Council Andreas Khol and also the head of state other than Alois Durnwalder, who have been constantly and constantly engaged in South Tyrol. It has improved and disintegrated much in the years since 1992. South Tyrol autonomy is today a model for the co-existence of minorities – in Europe as well as worldwide. It is a fact – you only need to look at the day-to-day situation – that minority conflicts are widespread worldwide, and so today you can also look at South Tyrol and learn something from the model that is curated and lived there and take something with you. The accession of Austria to the EU in 1995 and the case of the border bars through the accession to the Schengen Agreement have also brought North and South Tyrol closer together. South Tyrol autonomy is a system of peace. The South Tyrol autonomy ensures and promotes the peaceful living together of three language groups living in South Tyrol. South Tyrol autonomy is the basis and opportunity for the long-required Europe region of Tyrol, realized with the accession of the EU. But I do not think we should rejoice despite positive developments. We also need to think ahead. The question is how we can optimize and expand South Tyrol autonomy together, and so today I will allow myself to put four points at the heart of the further development for South Tyrol at the age of 25. First: South Tyrol needs as much autonomy as possible. This creates new opportunities for South Tyrol. The autonomy must be developed dynamically and adapted to the constantly new requirements. As a recent study shows, there has been a shift in competence since 1992. That is where we urgently need legal adjustments. Secondly, The Europe region of Tyrol-South Tyrol-Trentino needs to be strengthened even more in order to force existing economic exchanges. The Brenner Base Tunnel as a century project will certainly open up new opportunities for cross-border cooperation. Thirdly, Borders in the heads need to be reduced specifically. You have to put the joint before the end of the separation. For example, there are areas such as the fascist relics or the question of toponomastics in the place and corridor names, where it needs reason, fingertips and sense of reality. Fourth: A desire from many Tyroleans, South Tyrol friends and also from me personally would be the grace of the South Tyrolean freedom fighters still living in exile. I know her personally. It is their fate that they have never been allowed to enter their home since the 1960s. I still hope here for positive signals and a human solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Austria will continue to exercise the protection function for South Tyrol in the future. South Tyrol can rely on Austria, but it needs a reliable mutual exchange. The South Tyrol Subcommittee must, in the future, continue to represent South Tyrol in the High House on the basis of the Autonomy Report, calling for its implementation politically. At this point, I would also like to thank the members of the South Tyrol Subcommittee and the South Tyrol speakers of the parties for the cooperation they have in spite of some of the differing views – we always focus on the goal – and great cooperation. [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] The desire and vision of Captain Arno Kompatscher, a strong Europe region, a small Europe in Europe, I share by conviction and by my attitude. There are currently many current war scenes, crisis hosts, international violations, refugee flows that make us think and force us to act. There will only be peace if one is willing to resolve the conflicts. The South Tyrol conflict was resolved, but there were victims on both sides. We remember this here today in the House on the occasion of this present hour in particular. But above all, we thank those people – and there are a lot of people – who have contributed to the dispute resolution, and they cannot be listed by name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5274	The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs has made a statement on an introductory opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5296	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Above all, however, appreciated guests from South Tyrol, first and foremost, Mr Landeshuptmann – I welcome you here very warmly, thank you for being in Parliament today! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know the ringing around autonomy was long and tough. There have been many setbacks, and today we can be grateful to all those who have not been affected by these setbacks, but who have done everything to bring about the South Tyrol autonomy that we experience today in South Tyrol. The dispute settlement process has definitely paid off, and I would also like to thank, as a representative of one of the following generations, all for what has been done here. In particular, I would like to mention one of our thanks, I believe, particularly due to the fact that he was really tireless in many questions, but also in this matter – and it was a worthy conclusion that he was able to hand over the statement of dispute to the Italian Embassy in 1992 –: Thank you to all those who have worked there, first and foremost to our Dr. Alois Mock. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Today, South Tyrol autonomy has not only proved itself, but has even succeeded in making South Tyrol autonomy a model for the resolution of minority conflicts around the world. If we look into crisis areas today, it is often the South Tyrol autonomy, which is mentioned as a positive example and which many are trying to learn from or cut off. However, what we should also mention today is that not only the dispute resolution was an important step, but also the accession of Austria to the European Union has led to the fact that the situation has been significantly relaxed and further improved. As a result of the accession to the European Union, through the possibility of the open border between Italy and Austria, the European region of Tyrol has not only been created but also strengthened. The accession of Austria to the European Union and this strong Europe region of Tyrol are now something that is far beyond our borders. We have a region with the Europe region of Tyrol, which is economically and socially well developed and is a model far beyond our borders. Because of the positive situation, however, we should not underestimate in the current situation the risks that remain. The refugee crisis has shown us that the open borders in Europe can be very fast history if there are no working external borders. We must therefore do everything we can to: To protect our external borders in order to stop illegal migration to Europe, on the one hand to end the death in the Mediterranean, on the other hand, because there is no internal Europe without external borders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Mr Landeshuptmann, at the end I can only hold on once again – and I speak not only for myself, but, as I believe, for almost all Austrians –: South Tyrol is a matter of our hearts. Austria was always on the side of South Tyrol, Austria is on the side of South Tyrol and Austria will always stay at the side of South Tyrol. – Thank you for coming today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5377	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that each speaker and any other speaker has speaking time, according to Rules of Procedure, for 5 minutes. First speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5404	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Dear guests from Tyrol – those from South Tyrol, but also those guests who came from North Tyrol! Welcome, ladies and gentlemen! “25 Years of Dispute Resolution” is a good reason for a current hour, because it is not only a historical event but of course also carries many current questions. The question of South Tyrol and the fate of the country and the people living there have always been on the international political parquet since Saint-Germain's misconception. After the Second World War – you will find out when you read it – it was Karl Renner, who already pointed out the South Tyrol question during his first contacts with the Allies and also pointed out that South Tyrol should come back to Austria better. As a result – one of my previous speakers has already mentioned the Gruber-De-Gasperi agreement – all the governments of Austria have always had the theme of South Tyrol at the top of their political and foreign policy agenda. In the 1960s, Bruno Kreisky brought the theme of South Tyrol to the UN General Assembly. Between 1969 and 1971, there were also ratifications here in the Austrian Parliament and, subsequently, in Italy. In 1972 this statute of autonomy was created. Alois Mock, Ludwig Steiner are also to be mentioned in this context. In 1992, it was officially established that the Pact had been fully implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This is why we are doing this year the anniversary of the dispute resolution 25 years ago. In this connection, I also telephoned Franz Vrannitzky, then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and Peter Jankovitsch, the great friend of South Tyrol and former Austrian Foreign Minister, who gave the best greetings on the occasion of this debate. This is a moving story, a story with many dark sides: Forceditalization, the uprising of the bumpers, display processes and all these questions. But if we look at South Tyrol today, we see an island of prosperity, prosperity, for example, an example in relation to the overall school, because South Tyrol's children are better off in the PISA test – and this is probably also due to the very good School system in South Tyrol is – but also in terms of tourism or public transport – each second South Tyrol has an annual map. But we must also be vigilant. So today is not the day when you say: Everything's great! – The living autonomy must be constantly defended, and Austria, as the protective force of this autonomy statute, always has a role to play. It's about: Can autonomy always be managed financially? Is adequate consideration of South Tyrol's interests and the needs of autonomy taken into account in the very frequent Italian constitutional discussions? All these questions have also been intensively occupied with us in the recent past and, I think, have been very well answered. South Tyrol is also a model for many conflicts within Europe, in which minorities and nations seek greater independence. In the end, South Tyrol is also a praise for European integration, because in the united Europe, the Brenner is fortunate – and if we don't make any sense, then it will remain that way – no more border, and he should not be a border, ladies and gentlemen, because he is ultimately only a mountain pass within Tyrol! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] In the united Europe, however, it is also said that you can have everything at the same time, namely the home country of Tyrol, the home country of Austria can have, the citizenship of Italy can and can have the European identity. That's the nice thing about South Tyrol – and we will always look with our South Tyrol friends to see that this successful path can be pursued further!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5468	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5489	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Dear guests from Italy! Dear South Tyrolean women you came here today! As a political group, each club has the opportunity to apply for a current hour twice a year. We are so important to South Tyrol and this dispute resolution that we have said: We are doing here today this current hour, which we are dedicating to the South Tyroleans! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Crist.]] Yes, 25 years have passed since this dispute was settled; and it has been mentioned before: Until then, it was a long way to preserve the interests of the South Tyroleans and also to comply with the basic principle of the Paris Treaty, the Gruber-De-Gasperi Agreement, as it is called, so that Austria can best perform its protection function. Klubobmann Arbitrators have already called deserved Social Democrats, to whom South Tyrol was a particular concern, and I am sure that, in my opinion, Klubobmann Strache will also be able to name and name mandates from his group. In our ranks too, there are many who have been interested in South Tyrol, as the Foreign Minister has mentioned at an event and here in the House today. In fact, it is a matter of heart to many mandates here to do something for South Tyrol. Because it was just a matter of heart to him, it was National Council President Khol, who at the time achieved that we have our own South Tyrol Committee here; and this South Tyrol Subcommittee is already something special. Mr Gahr, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies has spoken before me, is very committed as committee chairman. Dear Hermann Gahr, I thank you, on behalf of all the political groups, for doing so much for these extraordinary good relations between our Parliament and the South Tyrol Landtag. [[In the case of ÖVP and SPÖ, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Willi.]] We had to say goodbye to Alois Mock a few days ago. Alois Mock is another one I would like to mention here, because Alois Mock was Foreign Minister in June 1992 – it was the 11. June 1992 – when he spoke of this dispute resolution, a piece of European history is written by the autonomous package. In retrospect, such a thing is always easier, because today one can say that this is a model, as Klubobmann Schieder said. Yes, it is a model of strong minority protection, a model of dynamic development. At that time, this was a difficult undertaking – the end of the first Italian Republic – it was a venture that was entered into with it; and no one knew how the development will be. Now we can say that thanks be to God were all those involved at the time so brave to take this step. The autonomy benefits all the people living in South Tyrol, all the ethnic groups. What is being done here as far as the rights of the German-speaking minority are concerned, as far as this linguistic, this cultural independence is concerned, is of course exemplary and a model example of peaceful living together. Especially in times like this, it shows how important it is to be able to refer to such positive examples. But we should also look to the future, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this future is one in which we do not need borders and not separate South Tyrol from Tyrol. To achieve this, we must do everything at the EU's external borders. That is what I am saying now in the direction of Italy: We heard yesterday a record number of refugees arrived in Italy: Something has to be done about the EU's external border, something has to happen as far as this Mediterranean route is concerned. The European Union must not be afraid of this. We are called on to close this route too; in the Western Balkans route, it has already succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. This is a very important point in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since I am already at the end of my speaking time, I am only saying briefly how it should be in the future and what the prerequisite is for us to be able to carry out this protection function: first, very good bilateral relations with Italy, second, a good dialogue and thirdly, a consensus of all the parties here in Parliament on the South Tyrol issue. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5577	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5599	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can also expressly welcome the guests from South Tyrol quite cordially: Mr. Landeshauptmann Kompatscher, Mr. Landeshauptmann, other than the service of Durnwalder, the representatives of the South Tyrol Landtag and also the representatives of the Schüttenbund. Of course, I can also welcome former National Council President Dr. Khol to the gallery. Yes, South Tyrol is a matter of heart for us liberals, and yes, South Tyrol has had to experience and suffer an incredibly painful story. We have experienced injustice – also in South Tyrol. A part of Tyrol has been torn away from our home country, and we have subsequently had to experience a decades-long development during which we had to fight to preserve all autonomy rights, which, of course, also today do not look quite as rosy in many areas as we have heard, and which have to be confirmed and extended again and again and again and which one has to fight. Thus, it is important not only to give lip confessions to the best, for in the case of injustice that has happened, of course, the wound could be cured in the optimal condition by the fact that, hopefully, one will also experience a national unit in a Europe that works together and in which one has no more borders – as we have heard today. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] A non-critical consecration on the occasion of 25 years of dispute resolution will be So you certainly don't hear from us. It must not be forgotten that on this occasion 25 years ago a deep crack through the political landscape of South Tyrol has gone, that the dispute resolution was then extremely controversial and that at the time parts of the South Tyrol People's Party, the then Union for South Tyrol and the Sagittarius, were energetically opposed to this act, because it was above all feared that the lack of international security of autonomy was right. Despite a very positive development of South Tyrol over the past 25 years, the issue of international security of autonomy has still not been clarified. Even today, Italian government politicians question Austria's defence function and call South Tyrol a purely internal problem, many even question the importance of autonomy at the state level. This means, of course, that we are asked as a protective force, and we have always to stand in front of the South Tyroleans. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] In March of this year, for example, Senator Stefano Esposito of the Partito Democratico in Italian television released real hatred against South Tyrol and called for the elimination of alleged autonomy privileges. Even in the case of an adopted international security of autonomy, there is serious doubt as to how far Austria's jurisdiction would go in the event of violations of South Tyrol autonomy. The legal opinion, which was prepared by Innsbruck University Professor Franz Matscher in 1992 on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government, concludes that there is only a very difficult possibility of action for Austria; moreover, the dispute resolution in no way prejudicates the right of self-determination to the South Tyroleans. – And I say: You can and will never give up on that! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Of course, the dispute resolution is not an end to history. Many would like that, but of course that is not the case. Of course you also have to hold on, South Tyrol is not only a matter of heart, but we all have a responsibility in this House as well. I would also like to thank our South Tyrol speaker Werner Neubauer for his commitment in recent years and thank him for constantly calling this problem into the consciousness of this high house. It is also the historic task of Austria, the ethnic and cultural stock of the German and Ladin ethnic groups in South Tyrol and their autonomy to to ensure that the right of self-determination is achieved by all democratic means available. Of course, it would also be nice if we could allow double citizenship for South Tyroleans, because they are, of course, richer in old Austria and part of our Austrian fatherland. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] That would also be a special sign that one can rely on us and that this protective power function will be lived. Of course, it would be nice to finally ensure, with regard to the South Tyrol freedom fighters, who at the time brought the problem properly into the awareness of the international community, that the South Tyrolean freedom fighters finally experience a grace. Of course, I do not want to thank the former Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kreisky for his commitment, which was really a more serious and honest one at the time – and of course everyone here in the High House to the deceased Alois Mock, because everyone has made their contribution here, there or there with a slightly different facet. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Lugar.]] Sometimes I would have liked more, but it is nevertheless important that we, hopefully, meet with all the differences in the essential core and not be divided.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5695	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5716	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear guests from South Tyrol and Tyrol! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first class of gymnasium, I had a geography teacher who came from South Tyrol, and when he asked us eleven-year-olds where to go when you drive over the burner, and we answered: After Italy!, we had to sit down with a not enough, because if you drive over the burner, you will come to South Tyrol. This little story shows how that generation suffered from the painful separation of South Tyrol from Tyrol with all its unjust sections. This one my teacher felt as part of an oppressed minority, and he wanted to pass on this feeling to us disciples. I myself belong to the generation that has experienced the separation of the Brenner border: the controls, the one or the other shock, the smearing of the waltz, which has been taught with many stories, so that we can understand what that means. But I have also had the opportunity to experience what is possible when politicians negotiate with strategic thinking, with respect and understanding of the position of the other and try to find a solution. Many decades ago, in a very controversial question in this House, an ÖVP politician told us how difficult it was to reach an agreement, but he said: Above all, the will was agreed! And I think it was also this will to reach agreement, which ultimately led to the possibility of this declaration of dispute in 1992 under a very vague, weak Parisian agreement on the First and Second Statutes, whose 25. Anniversary we celebrate today. Today, the status of autonomy is a solid basis that meets today's needs of the three language groups living in the country. If we look at South Tyrol today, we can say with joy: The country south of the Brenner is one of Europe's most economically successful regions. The autonomy, however, is work in progress, adjustments to time are sensible and possible, but only if all parties agree. And this also includes the Republic of Austria, which will continue to exercise the defence function with all the emphasis. This is all of us, I think, one-brightly important. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For me, the greatest wealth of South Tyrol is the cultural and linguistic diversity in addition to nature and culture and the cultural landscape. If I had been born in South Tyrol and had been raised there, I would go to a mother tongue school, but I would grow up bilingual. After five years I switch to a secondary school, to an overall school in which disabled children are also taught, children from all social shifts, and if I am lucky, I may even speak four languages at the age of 14. German, Italian, English, Ladin. This is a wealth that you also have to see and understand as such. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This opportunity of bilingualism, multilingualism, is a huge starting point in Europe. But also the encounter of the Alpine culture with that of the Italians is an enrichment. Everyone who goes to the restaurant in South Tyrol knows about the advantages of alpine cuisine, which combines with the advantages of Italian cuisine. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And when you look at architecture, fashion, design, way of life, you can also see this link between the Alpine, which is naturally characteristic, and the Italian influences that are still European-inspired. I come to the conclusion: What has begun on two sides as a very gay Gruber-De-Gasperi agreement has become a very detailed autonomy statute after a long process, of which one can speak with fug and right today as Magna Carta South Tyrol. The three official language groups of the country have lost much of their distrust, but much remains to be done on this way of understanding. If we live politically the will to reach an agreement that has been reached in South Tyrol and has led to success, at least much more is possible than many think. Small-minority and eternal thinking are poisons for the fruitful co-existence of majority and minority. Rather, tolerance and openness for each other are the feeding ground where the region of Tyrol-South Tyrol-Trentino can continue to grow and can continue to be a model for autonomy around the world. On this path I wish the Europe region Tyrol-South Tyrol-Trentino all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5799	Next: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5820	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends from South Tyrol! Mr. Landeshuptmann! Mr. Altlandes Captain! Mr President! Dear President! This is actually a joyful anniversary: 25 years of dispute resolution before the United Nations. South Tyrol has become a lighthouse for a successful collaboration, a respected lighthouse that shines worldwide. I remember being in Hong Kong 20 years ago and being approached in South Tyrol and asking how they did it. This is being studied with great attention worldwide. I have heard the demands of students also in Indonesia: How do the South Tyroleans do this? – That is, something has already been done here that you can be proud of. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Have you been to South Tyrol before?]] Andreas, I like being in South Tyrol. I'm more often in South Tyrol. I very much appreciate South Tyrol. And when I pass through South Tyrol, I think, What flowering landscapes! [[Abg. Lopatka: Passing through is bad!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I always stand!]] – A little more serious about the club members of the government parties! I think listening is a matter of respect. Of course: To get anywhere, I have to go somewhere – that's okay, Mr. Lopatka, right? If you allow, I will now continue my remarks. So: Whether I'm in Merano, Bruneck in Pustertal or Bolzano, these are flowering landscapes. Whether I stand in front of the sling, full of astonishment at the natural forces in this wonderful land, that is a flowering land, and this flowering has something to do with organized togetherness. If this is not organized – this is constant relationship work – then it will not flourish. And I congratulate all those who cultivate here. This is a great-style cultivating work, over many decades. And I'm completely clear, you have to stick to it. Now, if we ask ourselves: What can be the legacy of this integration process for the challenges we have in these days?, then I want to focus on statements like: We have to close the burner! It is not yet a year since the Minister of Defense made a headline with the closing of the burner, I quote: “as soon as possible”. The Foreign Minister has also not excluded the need to close the burner. – I think this is the legacy of this process in recent decades, because we have to understand: Either it's a close-up or it's kind of like a match. If I am in Brussels in the three-country office of the European Region of Tyrol-South Tyrol-Trentino, I am all the more aware: This is also an example of quality, as no other region in Europe has achieved so far. That means they're pioneers here. And I do not think it is okay if we no longer invest in this common interest, but if, in view of the great challenges, Mr Foreign Minister, who we naturally have in these refugee movements, we have to register that many national governments are saying: Mainly, not my problem! It is quite clear that we must meet together the challenges we have here. We cannot leave Italy and Greece alone here. We cannot say either that it is not our problem as long as it hangs with them, because if it hangs long enough, they will make it ours again. And now we can choose it: Do we want to push the problems to the neighbor in the 28 national states, or do we try to solve them together? “To solve together” presupposes the will and determination for one another. And if this will and this determination were not to exist among many men and women 25 years ago and the years before, then it would not have been for this dispute resolution. And this is a anniversary today, but it's also a monument: We are committed to co-operation, and to that we have to confess again and again. And the confession is best recognized by the fact: By the deeds you shall know them. In conclusion: I can remember, Mr Durnwalder, that I was with the academic Senate in the rock cellar in Laimburg, the country winery of the South Tyrol, over 20 years ago, and at that time I understood this self-confidence of this country. You've worked this out, and I mean, this lighthouse is supposed to shine for decades and centuries. You are doing well – and you are doing us well!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5888	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e5910	Madam President. The Federal Ministers! High house! Dear guests from South Tyrol at the gallery! I'm glad you're here. I'll go into one or the other. Ladies and gentlemen, if we speak today over 25 years of fighting in South Tyrol, then you can say on the one hand, it is cause for joy, on the other hand, you should not forget the pain, this pain line that was drawn a hundred years ago. At the moment there are a lot of tent-fests, shooter-fests. A week and a half ago, we had a big feast in my home country, to Fronleichnam, where our shooters repeatedly express themselves – I am the captain of these great shooters’ presences – and then, when the music is recorded, one sings “The Land of Tyrol the Faithful”, and the people stand on the benches and sing the lyrics. I would now like to quote a few lines from this text, which will bring you what is being sung: “A hard fight has decimated you, was torn by you South Tyrol. The Dolomites greet us from a distance in red gluten for the last good.’ And then it goes down: "Tiroler shooters keep you faithful, as long as their hearts still glow.” Ladies and gentlemen! As Vorarlberger Schütze, I would like to say this: We too are faithful to the country of South Tyrol, and we have not forgotten what happened a hundred years ago. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] At the beginning of my speech I also talked about a deep crack through the country, and this deep crack was the separation of South Tyrol from Austria. And now I come to the friends from South Tyrol: Yesterday I received the resolution of some countrymen from South Tyrol, by Sven Knoll, my good friend from South Tyrol. Before I present the resolution to you, I would like to read something from the explanatory statement so that people on TV screens can know what this is really about. There are, among other things, inside: "In Italy, more and more voices are being heard, claiming that the South Tyroleans are 100 years after the 1st century. World War I was no longer an Austrian minority and therefore no longer have the right to autonomy. The recovery of Austrian citizenship for South Tyrol is therefore one of the most important measures in the coming years to secure the South Tyrol autonomy (...)’. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, I have always made very strong for the dual citizenship of the South Tyroleans that the South Tyroleans receive Austrian citizenship. I'm still in the opinion: If anyone These are the South Tyroleans, because they are not from the outside, they have been robbed from the inside. You have to say that clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would be a good sign of this National Council to take a step here and send a signal to South Tyrol, but also to Italy that the South Tyroleans have the protective power Austria in their backs. It's, I think, very, very important that we put these signals. This National Council is probably not going to do this anymore, I will not belong to the next National Council, but I appeal to those who will sit in here after the next election, that they continue to pursue this goal and finally bring something reasonable forward in this direction – and not only speak beautifully, ladies and gentlemen. That's a clear request. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Since the light is already flashing, I'm going to read the resolution quickly, there's inside: ‘1. The separation of South Tyrol from the fatherland of Austria and the division of Tyrol are an ongoing injustice, especially since the population has so far been refused a democratic referendum. 2. In accordance with Art. 1 of the UN Human Rights Pacts also allows the South Tyroleans the right to self-determination. 3rd. The dispute resolution does not in any way prejudicialize the right of self-determination for the South Tyroleans. The dispute resolution is not the solution to the problem of South Tyrol, but the starting point for a consistent further development of autonomy with the aim of achieving complete self-management and independence from the Italian national state. 4. As long as South Tyrol is still part of the Italian state, it is important to develop and consolidate autonomy. The recovery of Austrian citizenship for the South Tyroleans is an essential basis for this, which is therefore strongly sought. 5. The grace of the exiled South Tyrol freedom fighters is a long-overdue act of humanity, but also the reparation for the crimes committed by Italy in South Tyrol.” I think we can leave it to the right course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6018	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6039	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear guests, with a special greeting to the South Tyroleans! High house! The present hour, I admit, has a certain brilliance for me. When I saw the light of the world in July 1959, I certainly did not remember that I was allowed to give a speech here in the House as a Member of Parliament for 25 years. But it was precisely in 1959 when Bruno Kreisky took the South Tyrol theme seriously, which he brought before the UN in 1960 and pursued with great emphasis because Italy did not want to divert. Years of intensive discussions and consultations followed, as well as public and often worrying actions and reactions. South Tyrol was thus also at the center of interest internationally. In 1969 the South Tyrol People's Party agreed to the so-called package with 137 negotiated measures, the second autonomous statute entered into force with January 1972. It took 20 more years for the essential points to be realized. ==References====External links== In January 1992 the package declared fulfilled, Italy handed over a diplomatic note to Austria. The Stoneographic Protocol of 72. National Council meeting of XVIII. The legislative period gives detailed information on the very intense discussion here in the House – that was in June 1992. It was from our ranks of well-known Members who spoke, one of them was Peter Schieder, the father of our current clubman, who in his speech looked far back and quoted Otto Bauer, those Otto Bauer, who, as the State Secretary of the External Affairs in the Constituent National Assembly in 1919, asked whether the Allied forces, when they had decided on German-South Tyrol, actually knew the Tyrolean people and their sense of freedom and self-confidence. It was Federal Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky who said at the same session: “After an in-depth review of all the measures taken by the Italian Government, we have come to believe that the package has been fulfilled “and that the time for formal dispute resolution has therefore come.” However, the protection function remains upright and there was no relinquishing of South Tyrol's right of self-determination. It was also Peter Jankovitsch, who said at this meeting: Again and again, "from the Austrian People's Office, important impulses have been given to the Austrian South Tyrol policy, this High House has accompanied the fate of South Tyrol as a faithful guardian and guardian of its rights. And during some (...) The Austrian Parliament has always been on the side of South Tyrol in its long and painful history, in good days and in bad days.” Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to emphasize these words personally, and they have the same validity for me today – 2017 – as they did at that time in 1992. Finally, I would like to quote my friend and longtime predecessor as South Tyrol spokesperson of our group, Erwin Niederwieser, who is also present today: "The statements by Austria and Italy to the United Nations that the dispute between these two countries is settled are more than a formal act. In an era of world history, in which the United Nations faces almost every day new conflicts that have their roots in nationalist currents on the one hand, and in the disregard and suppression of the elementary rights of minorities on the other, Austria and Italy on the other, show that such conflicts can also be peacefully corrected in the world.’ Dear Erwin! These words were correct in 1992 and are still valid today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear South Tyroleans! The Members of this House, whom I have quoted, were great politicians of the Social Democratic Party, have my greatest respect. They have fought with great ambition, fingertips and expertise for the autonomy of South Tyrol. But I do not want to mention Leopold Figl, Karl Gruber, Kurt Waldheim and Alois Mock. Of course, there have also been critical votes in 1992; of course, many fears have been put into the room, only: What about the autonomy, the interaction of Rome and Bolzano, economic and social life in South Tyrol developed since 1992? – I think I can say without a doubt: very encouraging and very positive! Strong and forward-looking national leaders have shaped South Tyrol and made it a self-confident and economically successful country. Silvius Magnago, Luis Durnwalder and currently Arno Compatscher were and are the guaranteers of the dynamic development of South Tyrol autonomy. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] As a Member of the Austrian Parliament, as a Socialist parliamentary club, we will accompany this path, remain reliable partners and stand by in the case of the case of South Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6125	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6149	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear guests from South Tyrol! Please allow me as a Tyrolean and as a friend to welcome our Tyrolean President Sonja Ledl-Rossmann to the gallery! [[General condolences.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The anniversary of 25 years of dispute settlement South Tyrol is truly a good reason to let the history of the South Tyrol autonomous efforts pass through, analyze and honor the achieved. My previous speakers have already done this in detail, which is why I would like to address the general aspects of human rights equal treatment for minorities. Austria, in its federal constitution, is committed to the respect and promotion of the groups of the peoples of Austria – and that is not so few; these are the Croatian, Slovenian, Hungarian, Czech and Slovak, as well as the Roma people’s group – and Austria has incorporated these rights into a series of laws and regulations since the constitution in the Constitution. We have long been committed to strengthening minority rights and minority protection at international level, especially within the framework of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, based on this national group policy and on our long-standing protection function for the German-speaking peoples' group in South Tyrol. At international level, protection of minorities has been given increased attention, particularly since the beginning of the 1990s. In 1992, the General Assembly took The United Nations adopted a declaration by Austria on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. For the first time, this guaranteed the right of persons belonging to national minorities to use their language, to maintain their culture and to exercise their religion. Also in the UN Human Rights Council, the protection of minorities is a focus of the work of Austria. Since 2005, the UN has also had the office of independent experts on minority issues, which is constantly concerned with the concerns of minorities in all parts of the world, and is also engaged in country visits. In 2014, this mandate was transformed, at the request of Austria, into a special rapporteur for minority issues. The minority forum, which is also set up, is concerned with the development of strategies and measures for the global protection of national, ethnic, reli- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! There is indeed enough to do. Many crises in various countries can be attributed to ethnic conflicts. We all have in mind the terrible events in Rwanda and Burundi, but also those in the former Republic of Yugoslavia. The repression and murder of the Jesids, Christians and other minorities in Syria must be mentioned in this context. If the situation seems to be completely hopeless through these conflicts and many more in Africa, for example, then the example of South Tyrol can be a source of courage and show how much – that is, a lot! – a peaceful solution to conflict is possible if people have the will to recognise the rights of minorities and to take a path that is acceptable to all. This is, of course, very long, often laborious and only succeeds step by step, but in the case of South Tyrol, all concerned have taken on this effort in the knowledge that only a peaceful solution can be a good solution, and for this we are always grateful to our political ancestors. I think, together with the South Tyroleans and also with Italy, we can be proud of the achievements. South Tyrol has won a global pioneering role. That, dear friends, you can and should carry you very self-confidently out into the world! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] One last sentence, Madam President: Today, more than ever, we need positive and courageous examples. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6222	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6244	Madam President. Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear countrymen from South Tyrol! Commemorative events serve mainly to look into the past, but of course also into the present and the future. For the FPÖ, South Tyrol has always been a real matter of heart, even in the preparatory organization, and of course it is still today, why we have been watching closely in terms of the political conditions and development in Italy as a whole and of course also in terms of how South Tyrol has developed since the completion of the autonomous package 45 years ago and since the resolution of the dispute 25 years ago. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Gahr]] And yes, we confess to this: Since then, there have been many positive aspects of living together. Of course, we also need to keep an eye on current developments and note that: The autonomy is in defense mode towards the Italian State and also towards the Constitutional Court in Italy. In Italy, more and more voices have been voiced, which believe that South Tyrol has been with Italy for almost a hundred years, and that is why the legal right to recognition as a minority has not been given at all. With this challenge, Austria must, of course, be particularly careful to deal with as a protective force. This development has also been the reason for the fact that a large number of South Tyrolean Members of the Landtag have presented a resolution to the members of the National Council, which lists many things that must cause great concern to the members of the South Tyrol Subcommittee. It is, for example, about the fact that in the last 15 years in South Tyrol two thirds of the country's laws have been challenged in well over 100 constitutional court proceedings. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is about minority protection! Two thirds of the laws adopted in the South Tyrol Landtag must be brought before the Constitutional Court in Italy because Italy has rejected these laws. You have to imagine what that means! This means going to the Constitutional Court for autonomous jurisdiction in order to defend these rights as well. It is also about the fact that many of the financial interests were broken by Italy several times. At that time, Austria's protective power has unfortunately been silent with all these fractions. I expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to put more pressure on us in such cases. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard many praises today – rightly, unjustly – about autonomy, and in this context we already have to note that in the case of autonomy, although legally enshrined in the autonomy statute, it has always been further developed, since 2001 an blatant standstill has occurred, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The last actual change was decided by the Constitution in 2001 in Rome. Since 2001, there has actually been a standstill, and even there we should not see as a protective force, but we should raise further demands. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] We therefore see it as a command of the hour, ladies and gentlemen, at last to realize the demand made by Dr. Khol to anchor the protective power function in the Constitution. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Hagen and Mr Lugar.]] We also want to bring about a closer link between the South Tyroleans and their country of origin in Austria. That is, we liberals are quite clear about double citizenship for all those who want it to be in South Tyrol. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Mr. Bundesminister Kurz, I would really like to ask you – he will already know, even if he has just left the hall – to give up the position that the autonomy statute has replaced the right of self-determination. [[Call the FPÖ: It's no longer there!]] This position is a legal contradiction to the Paris Agreement and also a contradiction to the autonomy statute. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be said that the population of South Tyrol has never been asked what it wants in the future, but the Austrian position is that the status of autonomy has already replaced the right of self-determination. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] In our opinion, this cannot be done, and we therefore call on the Austrian Federal Government to do so as to bring about a change in thinking. [[Complementary by the FPÖ and by Mr Hagen and Mr Lugar]] Finally, as the last sentence, Madam President, I should also like to appeal to Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Foreign Minister to put the humanitarian question of grace to the fore so that this chapter for Austria and South Tyrol can also be concluded. Finally, I thank the South Tyroleans for coming. Live South Tyrol, live a Tyrol from Kufstein to Salurn!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6320	These were now a number of closing points that you have left off. Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6347	Madam President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests from Tyrol and South Tyrol, welcome to the Austrian Parliament! It has been exactly 25 years since the dispute was formally settled; a time period that actually works very short, actually just as long as one speaks of a youthful age, but nevertheless much has happened in South Tyrol, namely economically, socially and culturally. To this end, it seems to have been important that the agreement and cooperation were actively forced across party borders, that is, across party borders, in Austria and South Tyrol. Thank you also – to those who have done this, but also to those who will continue to force it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The basis is the peace arrangement. This dispute settlement arrangement clearly shows the importance of the UN and cooperation. The initiatives at that time, including through the UN, made it quite clear that diplomatic relations, that bilateral relations, that diplomacy for peace are simply extremely important. We live precisely in times when more than ever we have to pay attention to diplomacy, that bilateral relations, that development, that prosperity is indeed possible. This peace regime is a clear example of the fact that everyone and everyone here could continue to force, primarily the Foreign Minister, in order to actually achieve peace arrangements in a time of crisis. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Muttons.]] This stability, development and rule of law as the basis of this peaceful society have actually been achieved. This is a wonderful and positive development for Austria, for South Tyrol, for Tyrol, but also for Europe. To remember and remember is necessary for all of us, remembering and remembering it needs to be, we must never forget that, but it is also important to me to look a little bit into the future; so I have to mention a few things. With autonomy, from my point of view, the development in South Tyrol is indeed an example of a peaceful living together, namely, of different cultural and linguistic groups, and this is an enormously important sign and an extremely important example. The Europeanisation of South Tyrol – for example, the establishment of the Europe region across the borders – is a wonderful example of how developments can be further forced, also within the European context. For me, it is not a discussion that Austria is fully committed to its international role in protecting South Tyrol. Further development is a necessary dynamic process, and I assume that the Austrian Parliament, together with the South Tyroleans, will also take the next steps to actually develop this role. We are all Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and we must look at how Europe is developing, and we must also look closely at where EU citizenship and citizenship can be pushed further. The borders in Europe have been mentioned more often. There are limits which should not actually be presented in the European context, in the EU context and in the idea of what a European Union should and can be. We now have the situation, especially with the Brenner border, that borders also had to be closed. I am very sorry personally, not only for Tyrol and South Tyrol, but for Europe as a whole. We need to look at it together, In fact, to find good solutions so that South Tyrol and Austria do not remain separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6413	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6434	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[In the direction of gallery:]] Mr. Landeshuptmann! Madam President. Mr President. I am particularly pleased to welcome so many South Tyroleans here today. 25 years of dispute resolution is, of course, a special occasion for thought-thinking today. The autonomy and its constant development have laid the foundation for prosperity and social peace in South Tyrol. It protects the rights of the German population, the Ladin-speaking population and, of course, the Italian population, as well as the ethical, cultural and also economic foundations and enables peaceful living together of all three groups of people. What does this success model look like today? – We have a larger per capita income in South Tyrol than – compared to – the Federal Republic of Germany. South Tyrol has an unemployment rate below 4 percent, and tourism and agriculture are booming. In addition, there is one of the first trilingual universities in South Tyrol, which naturally ensures that not only the co-existence is strengthened, but also the young people are perfectly prepared for their entry into professional life. Associations with the University in Innsbruck and in Trent promote the Of course. Why did all this happen? Why has this role model for deescalation, which is being looked at worldwide, been successful? – There was a compromise partner with Italy and there was a German chancellor Vrannitzky and a Foreign Minister Mock – a large European we remember with great respect in these days – who simply managed great things, namely nationalism, to put nationalist thinking in the background and to work for putting the commonplace before the parting. That is why the Tyrolean Autonomy Agreement is still one of the best-practice examples of the resolution of minority conflicts. From Gruber, De Gasperi, to the second autonomous statute, to the resolution before the United Nations in 1992 – that was a long way, and that was certainly not an easy way for all who left it. We can acknowledge the success today on the occasion of this anniversary. Especially in these times when nationalism is on the rise all over Europe, we have to put the success of South Tyrol and this agreement, of course, completely in the heart of this autonomy agreement, and reflect again on it. How does the trip continue? – It is up to us how this journey continues. It has been moving so much in Europe since 1992. We have joined the European Union, there is the Schengen area, and the Brenner border is only one line on the map for many Tyroleans. All the more so, I warn against the fact that we are rebuilding such barriers. The Tyroleans all benefit from these open borders, and we must ensure that they do not become the sufferers of a misguided refugee and migration policy. The closing of borders is not a solution. Austria and Italy are in excellent neighbourhood relations, which have been very intensive, not only with entry into the European Union. I believe that we Austrians and Italians, as well as Italians, have a responsibility to pursue, think and support this peace project in Europe. Therefore, we should remember that in today's fire..., celebration of course also – a fire hour is not, it is a celebration hour – again. [[Abg. Street: “Fire hour ”?- Oh, my God!]] South Tyrol's special position and autonomy, which it has, are a single position in Europe, and it is a peaceful and respectful living together in the heart of our beautiful Europe. These independencies lead to a dead end, this way back is over. The wheel of time can and should not be turned back either. It is my great hope, therefore, that one day all Tyroleans, no matter which side of the burner they may be at home, will see and find themselves as citizens of a European Republic. For this vision we will NEOS, I will continue personally.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6477	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6498	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests of the delegation from South Tyrol and Tyrol! The current hour has a very important topic today: The South Tyrol dispute settlement is 25 years old. The 11th. June is a historic day in the history of South Tyrol. ==References== Every year this day the declaration of dispute between Austria and Italy is issued. For 20 years, the negotiations on South Tyrol autonomy have taken place, and, Mr Gahr, the setting up of the Subcommittee of the Foreign Policy Committee, the South Tyrol Subcommittee, is a very important aspect. This declaration officially ended the dispute between the two countries opened in the 1960s for the implementation of the Paris Treaty before the UN. After the Austrian demand for a referendum in South Tyrol had been finally rejected by the West Powers in 1946, a safeguard agreement was signed by the then Foreign Minister. ==References== In June 1992, Austria and Italy settled at the UN in New York City. South Tyrol is a small Europe, a beautiful holiday country and a very beautiful home, it is very strongly rooted in its own tradition – and that is good that way. Some countries can cut off a slice here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:24]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6550	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:23:37]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6644	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the honourable Members. Steinhauser, Dr. Scherak, colleagues, requested that the Justice Committee report to Member Dr. Scherak, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code, be limited to 23. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6675	The debate on points 4 and 5, 6 to 10, 11 and 12, 14 to 16, 18 to 20, 21 and 22, 23 to 26, 30 to 33, 34 to 37 and 38 to 40 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6699	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 128, FPÖ 119, Green 100 and NEOS and Team Stronach each 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 26 minutes, and their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are voting in favour of it. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:25:56]] 1. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1644, e.g._Other Organiser Amendment to Article 124 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court (1701, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6745	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6773	Madam President. Federal Minister Kurz! Ladies and gentlemen! The International Criminal Court, introduced in 1998, then in force in 2002, is a very important instrument when it comes to condemning the biggest international crimes. What is he responsible for? – He is responsible for genocide, for crimes against humanity, for war crimes. The success of introducing this Court in 1998 following long discussions is a real step forward. However, the great advertising drop is that, unfortunately, important countries such as the USA, Russia or China have not yet joined the Court of Justice – I say: not yet. It is high time that this Court of Justice was also responsible for these states. Meanwhile, 124 states are members of the International Criminal Court, he works. He has his seat in the Netherlands, in The Hague. Some cases have also been dealt with; I would like to mention two examples: The former Vice-President of the Congo was sentenced; Jean-Pierre Bemba was accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court in July 2007. Bemba is the chief commander a militia was sentenced to murders, mass rapes and lootings in the Central African Republic. Second example: The International Criminal Court in The Hague was guilty of the war criminal Thomas Lubanga in March 2012. Between 2002 and 2003, troops under the command of Lubangas had dragged numerous children under 15 years of age out of their homes and schools, trained militaryly, and sent to war. The fact that the international community does not tolerate this being brought before a Court of Justice is important and necessary. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I may add the following: We have created the Council of Europe to defend our values of humanity. For this, there is the European Court of Human Rights, and there the individual complaint is possible. If mass murders are now condemned with the International Criminal Court, genocide, then this is an instrument against these states, against such criminals. This is another gap in the legislation. In this sense, I am glad that the regulation with regard to the seven-year period, which has in fact never been exploited, is now being modernised, so that this statute has been improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6821	The next item is the speech by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6842	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Wurm is right: that it could be good; she has formulated it a little differently and said it is good and it is a success. – It could have been a success, but the International Criminal Court has been an blatant failure. The only success he has recorded is that this body has caused around 1.1 billion costs since its inception in 2002; but what he has brought is almost nothing. He is now an internal court to condemn overthrown or disarmed politicians, military leaders and presidents in the black African part of our earth. – Unfortunately, I have to say black African, because this is a fact. The only preliminary investigation carried out by this Court outside of Black Africa was concerning the operations in Georgia in 2008, but it remained in general preliminary investigations. The most important states, just like the Landmining Convention, are not just a member, but are fighting the Court of Justice and making it ridiculous, for example the USA. You said you hoped that these would join: The United States not only withdrew its application for membership, but in 2002 under Clinton adopted the so-called American Service Members’ Protection Act, which provides that American citizens can also be deprived of access to this Court by military intervention, i.e. violent and armed. With all the major member and signatar states of this organisation, the US has concluded bilateral agreements to exclude American citizens. Ukraine, for example – which is also highly interesting – has not signed, but has issued a temporary authorisation declaration that the Court of Justice has committed crimes between November 2013 and February [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayer]] 2014, the end of the Yanukovych era, may be investigated exceptionally. He is not allowed to investigate anything else, but the current government has adopted a special arrangement to investigate the Yanukovitsch time. However, this has not been useful, nor have any investigations against Yanukovitsch been initiated. That's how you could continue the list. The Black Africans are already leaving, South Africa has resigned, Burundi has resigned. [[New call of the abg. Bayr.]] – Burundi has resigned, South Africa has resigned, the only thing that has not yet happened is that Parliament has not ratified the withdrawal. Since the meeting in January 2017, the African Union has debated a flat-rate withdrawal of the African States. So the whole thing is an obvious failure, and the current novel is a joke. We still agree because it is not harmful. The possibility of a seven-year delay and reservation period for application in certain cases on accession will be deleted, that is all. So this is a well-intentioned thing, which unfortunately went perfectly into the pants and caused only costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6906	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6927	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Above all, I would like to welcome the many visitors to the gallery, especially our young visitors. Today we have many school classes in the house that participate in guided tours. I'm glad you're there and follow our debate. [[General condolences.]] Now we are dealing with the International Criminal Court. I can agree with many speeches by my previous speakers, my immediate predecessor, Mr Hübner, but unfortunately not because I find and we find Greens that the International Criminal Court is a very, very important instrument so that dictators and people who have participated in crimes against humanity, such as mass rapes, mass murders, the expulsion of minorities or the killing of members of minorities, are put in a criminal court. Therefore, it would be my concern to strengthen the International Criminal Court and not to weaken it, not just to assume who is not in it. I assume that all of us here in the House criticise that the US has not joined, that India, China and Turkey are not present, or that some countries have signed the Treaty but have not ratified it, but that if we point out these shortcomings, we must say: We just can't do that, then I just can't go with it. The amendment of Article 124 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is supported by us Greens, which makes sense. This article 124 was intended to “apply” to many countries or governments, under quotations, in order to join the International Criminal Court. It has provided that jurisdiction may not apply for seven years; in our opinion, this Article 124 is not necessary in this form now. However, from our point of view, I would like to stress one very important point: Who wants to fight crimes against humanity, who wants genocide, mass murder, Violations, the elimination of minorities, the fight against war crimes, the first is to carry out an active foreign policy and peace policy, and the second – at least as important – to try to limit the international arms trade extremely, because, unfortunately, what is produced in Europe is being waged wars, displaced people and made refugees. In other words, we must, if we take the International Criminal Court seriously, seriously restrict what we all hope to do, including arms trafficking and arms production. – In this sense: Thank you for your solidarity!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e6981	Mrs Bayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7003	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The change mentioned in the Roman Statute is to be welcomed – it has been explained. I would also like to stress that both the International Criminal Court and its legal basis, the Rome Statute on which the debate is in the river, are highly active and highly debated and further developed instruments. The criticism by many African states of a supposed unilateral persecution of African citizens is half-said in the near future because most of the persecutions have taken place as a result of the interventions and requests of these countries themselves. South Africa has been mentioned. In fact: South Africa wanted, on the grounds that it could not be accepted that existing Heads of State cannot be respected in their immunity and persecuted by the ICC. But it is quite clearly part of the Roman Statute that people can be persecuted independently of their political status, and that is also good. The Supreme Court in South Africa has stopped this withdrawal with reference to its constitutional illegality. Gambia also wanted to leave, but there the newly elected president of this withdrawal procedure has applied very clearly, and Gambia is still there. The African Union did not bring together in January of this year a unanimous decision on collective retirement – and that is a good thing. I would like to quote a journalist, Ulrich Ladurner, who says: “The criticism of the ICC” – that is, at the International Criminal Court – “is mainly from those who fear it [...].” That's probably the right analysis. Most of the investigations took place, as has been said, on the basis of the intervention of the States themselves, but there were not only African cases, but also many investigations against, for example, Georgia's nationals, Ukraine, Afghanistan, Iraq, Colombia and some other countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The vision of living in a world where crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes are nowhere unpunished is a vision for which it is worth living and fighting. It is also the task of Austria not only to consolidate the International Criminal Court, but also to advertise new ratifications of the Roman Statute, for example through Ukraine – I do this very actively, I meet with parliamentarians of the Ukrainian Parliament, we discuss an accession procedure, and I am there Very confident – and of course it is also essential to take an active part in the further development of this important international instrument. Austria must remain a reliable partner in the realization of this vision of a just world in which, on the one hand, democratic governance and the rule of law are the principles of the states everywhere and for all people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7057	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1644 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:40:57]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 2248/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on the threat of genocide and famine in South Sudan (1703 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7106	This means we can reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There was no orality of the report. First of all, Mr. Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7134	Madam President. Minister! High house! South Sudan has declared its independence in 2011. The result, especially since 2013, was a very bloody conflict between the President and the former vice-president with countless dead. The population is mainly hungry. 1 million children suffer from malnutrition in South Sudan. There is a great escape movement: 1.8 million people have already fled from South Sudan in neighbouring countries since 2013, especially Uganda, a priority country of Austrian development cooperation. 3,000 people come to Uganda every day, refugees who need to be cared for. There are 800,000 refugees from South Sudan. Uganda is overwhelmed by these demands. The UN has organised a large donor conference, and Austria has also participated with €2 million in order to improve the situation in refugee camps in particular. This is a very important measure. Today's motion for a resolution will influence the international community of states and also the conflict parties to recommence. Austria wants to work as a bridge builder. It would be important to return to the 2015 peace solution. The sanctions such as the arms embargo should remain, and the accounts must be blocked. The freedom of travel is also to be limited. I would like to point out that Austria has decided to a greater extent in Kenya, Uganda and Ethiopia, especially today in the Council of Ministers. Austria builds bridges, contributes to the rule of law, economic development and economic development. Peacekeeping. This is an act of human dignity, as it also belongs to the Austrian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7173	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7194	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! While some here in Austria are talking about how to move a border fence through the Mediterranean, there is an unprecedented hunger disaster in the Sahel zone, the Horn of Africa and Yemen, a hunger disaster that will result in millions of new refugees and threaten to destabilise whole regions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich]] According to the United Nations alone, in the worst affected states of Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan, and Nigeria, 20 million people are threatened to starve. Nevertheless, financial assistance and policy measures are only very sluggish. In addition to financial assistance, policy measures would also be extremely important. This hunger disaster is largely man-made because in the countries concerned there are wars and armed conflicts. In South Sudan, according to the United Nations, even genocide threatens, for hunger is specifically used there as a weapon. Relief organizations such as the Red Cross are threatened, employees are killed. Ladies and gentlemen, we absolutely need more political pressure on all responsible parties to end these terrible crimes at last! The United Nations has already put in place the necessary measures, but it fails to implement them because the Security Council does not gather a majority. Austria must also do more, strengthen its political commitment and increase pressure, and I hope that this proposal will receive a broad majority here in Parliament. However, we must also, in particular, support the countries of the region which act and take responsibility in this crisis. I am thinking in particular of our priority developing countries. Uganda and Ethiopia both recorded about 1 million Somali and South Sudanese refugees, which is an incredible humanitarian power for these poor countries. They thus ensure stability and security, and they help us in Austria and Europe. Nevertheless, of the € 1.8 billion that Uganda needs for the refugees according to the UN, € 320 million has now come together. You, Mr Foreign Minister, have pledged €2 million for Austria. This is good, but far less than Ireland, Sweden or Norway are willing to give. Even Somalia, suffering from hunger, donated €200 000 to the refugees in Uganda. Mr Foreign Minister, in 2015, we learned through the refugee flow from Syria, what happens if we do not help in time and enough on-site. In the refugee camps in Uganda and Ethiopia, you could actually act concretely and not only produce beautiful soap bubbles that, as we know, burst very quickly. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] They could help to prevent people from getting on their way to Europe out of distress, to the safety of refugees, but also to the sustainable control of refugee flows. That's where I miss increased commitment from your side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7255	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7276	Madam President. Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen here and at home in front of the TV screens! Of course, we will agree to this request. It is such a request to which one would have said earlier: a no-na request. Of course, we want security in this region, we want to end the war, and of course we want people to live in security, but we have to say goodbye to the idea that Austria is a world politician. We can best appear as a bridge builder. The conflict situation, whether ethnic, political or religious, or caused by land treasures, cannot de facto be estimated from here, and I claim that this can only be a handful of people in the region. We have, of course, heard of you now, Mrs Muttonen, some perfectly correct statements, but the emphasis in the argumentation is a little different from ours. Of course, you have to look first and foremost at the African continent and make an analysis. I made the effort. It is no secret that the people of Africa are growing rapidly. In 1950 230 million people lived on the continent, in 1960 483 million, in 2000 811 million, now over a billion people live there, and if you believe the statistics, 2.5 billion people will live in Africa in 2050. This means that half of them will be under 18 years of age. There is a shift in the population of children. While 10 percent of all children were born in Africa in 1950, it will be around 40 percent in 2040, and that means nothing more than that 25 percent of all young people will live in Africa in 35 years. Today, according to UN figures, 60 percent of 15 to 24 year olds are unemployed in Africa. And that's the point now: Of course, they are all on the move to Europe, and our first commitment is, of course, to take action. If we look at the fact that we spend € 2 billion each year alone in Austria – which is now estimated, but the figures are likely to vote, it is more likely – only for asylum and refugees, then I wonder if we add part of this sum to Europe, what we can do with this money in this region. We can save ourselves all these requests, because that would be a local help that would actually arrive and is really needed. And we also need a measure – of course unpopular – that we have been calling for for for years: a border closure to Europe. Unfortunately, this is an immediate challenge and consequence of this situation, because, as Peter Scholl-Latour has already said,: We can import half of Calcutta into Europe, but that would not help Calcutta, but would only bring the problems from Calcutta to Europe. – That is to say, these are measures to be put in place that can be seen in the global context, and we will naturally need to consider in detail how Austria, with a restructuring of development cooperation in this area, will be better on the ground in the next legislative period. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7330	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7352	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the international community of states, and thus Austria, is concerned with the effects of climate change, drought, hunger, but also floods, war and crises, exploitation, actually the fight for resources and power. The tradition of Austrian foreign policy has always been clear, namely to focus on how diplomacy can actually work, how peace efforts can actually be discussed, and today we have also discussed a positive example of a peace settlement. That is, I am convinced that it is possible to establish peace through the international community, through the UN, on bilateral and multilateral relations. But there is also a need for a clear commitment by the Federal Government and a clear commitment by the Foreign Minister also needs to be made, as it really wants to become active. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] According to UN data, there are currently about 1.3 million refugees in Uganda; one million of these refugees come from South Sudan. Uganda is therefore the country that has received most refugees worldwide after Turkey, and it is our responsibility in Austria to make a clear contribution, especially in a partner country of Austrian development cooperation, and to support Uganda in this refugee crisis. We know: As long as there is no peace, there will be refugees. This applies not only to South Sudan, but also to other crisis and war regions in the world as an example, but Uganda is simply a partner country for Austrian development cooperation, and so it should be supported. In the Committee which dealt with this item on the agenda, Foreign Minister Kurz has promised €3 million to support Uganda, Uganda's government, in humanitarian aid – €3 million. Unfortunately, we have had to find that it has not become €3 million, but only €2 million, and that is more than terrifying, ladies and gentlemen, dear! Announced, requested: 3 million €, then pays only 2 million €. I find this approach to be quite honest more than last-class, because it was also a commitment to the Ugandan government, to the people who need help, and it was not respected. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Minister, we do not need an announcement policy, but we need an active diplomacy, active peace efforts and active humanitarian aid. – It costs money, and that is our responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7424	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7494	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7516	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! South Sudan is a very, very poor country. It's been shaken, war has existed for 70 years, but it's also a very beautiful country, and people there actually want the same thing as the people here: They want to live in peace, they want sufficient food, access to clean water, medical care and a job with which they can spend themselves and their family and look at their loved ones. For 70 years war has existed, with quite, very short interruptions. There no one was born at peacetimes, and that is, there is no family and no circle of friends who are spared from being victims of violence, hunger or lack of medical care. In the repeated dispute between the two parties, between these rivals, there is a real threat that millions of people will be rubbed. Hunger is used there as a war weapon. The result is fatal. The United Nations see that in South Sudan there are more than 6 million people who do not have enough to eat at the moment. The United Nations and many other organizations are doing a great job there, providing the population with what the state does not want to do or is unable to do. South Sudan is one of the least developed countries in the world's Least Developed Countries, and now the OECD has correctly noted in spring that Austria has reduced precisely these funds for the Least Developed Countries in the development cooperation funds. Why is that so? – This is simply because the focus of the EZA and the funds spent for it are at the moment at the time of the refugee defense. That is why we call on the Foreign Minister to increase the EZA's funds. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The funds for development cooperation are not intended to prevent refugees from Austria, but to help the poorest of the poor. That is why we agree with the request made by the colleague, Mr Muttonen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7562	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7585	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! A particularly warm greeting goes to the Gruber family from Ottnang, who is present with their ten children. I think it's worth an applause, but it's equally true of the Attersee guests. [[General condolences.]] Our tax system is based on contributors. These are exemplary contributors, who properly deposit into the system and therefore deserve special appreciation. Now on this point, to help Uganda [[a board on which a fully loaded overseas container vessel can be seen on the speaker’s console]] I think we should not only talk about wars and regional tensions, but also about the famine that has been mentioned. I'd like to comment on this. We are creating this famine. I have already mentioned this several times in this House: When you read the group atlas, you see what greedy society we have. We want double-digit dividends, double-digit gains, and this is achieved by not leaving these countries in which they are produced a chance of life. Today there is a report by Michael Ortner in the “Wiener Zeitung”, “Bitter Chocolate”. If the cocoa farmers earn 1 dollar a day or – from the consolidated report – the Indian tea pickers earn 1 dollar, 1 €, the day the material costs, the price for the bamboo or straw hut in which they sleep is still deducted, we do not need to wonder about refugee flows. 1.3 million refugees live alone in Uganda. We marvel and donate humanitarian aid. This is the most ineffective measure. € 85 million is now disbursing EU development aid to Uganda. We must take much more into account what damage we are causing, for example in the free trade agreements we are discussing, and what we are really doing with them. I am currently thinking of neighbors in distress – the Caritas and all the others are honorable aid organizations – and the donation campaign “Hungersnot Africa”. However, we do not take into account that in Africa the harvesting of the rainforests is starting right now. Since in Indonesia the area is decomposed and nature, the environment and the home country of the residential population are destroyed, it is now beginning in Africa. At the same time, we are giving punctual help there. That's what we need to think about. Yes, it should be supported, development aid must be, but we need – Mr Foreign Minister is just outside to say goodbye to the South Tyrol delegation – a fair world trade. There will be no way by. As long as he writes the best balance sheet, who cheats most, a fair society has no chance. These are the problems we have. The last point I mentioned was to read in the “South German newspaper ” last week. The cows are well known to be holy in India, but the largest beef and leather exporter is India, and one of the largest companies benefiting from it is BASF. Again and again we come to noble – including European – companies that are very strong in this pot of speculation. This has to be stopped, and these aids are also effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7650	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the resolution on the threat of genocide and famine in South Sudan attached to the Committee's report in 1703. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 208.) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, ladies and gentlemen, on paying an additional million euros for Uganda. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[11:05:23]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7713	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. Mr Hübner was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7737	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not unexpected that the TTIP negotiations have stopped again from the American side. That is to say, there is again interest from the American side in continuing these negotiations. The Trump administration has followed the calls of its own economy and has seen that it is probably an agreement for the vastest benefit of the United States. There are two requests in front of us: one - as always clearly formulated - request from us that these negotiations be stopped and that the negotiators and institutions of the European Union should be made clear to the people and institutions of the European Union that we will not ratify this agreement, as it is planned, and that we will not give our assent to continuing negotiations. There is still a slightly soft request from the other parties to whom we have joined, so that there is a uniform, common act of the Austrian people's representatives in this matter. This proposal is now acceptable because it makes it clear: We do not want the agreement, as it is now thought, and we will work to ensure that it does not come that way. The arguments summarized very briefly: It's not an agreement with any state in the world. It's not about South Korea, Malaysia or Australia, it's about the state that's pulling the strings in today's economy and having the saying. It is about the state in which eight out of ten corporations that dominate the world today sit. It is about the state in which the largest monopolists sit, which exert a disproportionate, decisive and crucial influence on democracy. That's what I'm talking about Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and many others we know. A major mistake is the conclusion with this State of an agreement that does not give up our own legal sovereignty and our regulatory sovereignty completely, but largely and decisively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a serious mistake to conclude with this state agreement, which allows us, among other things, to ensure that the population is supplied with regional, organically produced products from nearby countries, to conclude a contract with that State that would call all this into question and to open up the Austrian and European markets to the American agro-industrial industry. The agreement would therefore be vehement and clear against the interests of the Austrian and European population. We should all fight it. We should do more than this one request and say: Yes, we will work to make sure it doesn't go on! Austria must, I believe, also give a sign that this agreement cannot enter into force. I therefore ask all those who today agree to support this request in the interests of the vast majority outside Parliament and outside this proposal – we are talking not only of a majority but of a majority, because, according to all the surveys, 60 percent are against it and a maximum of 15 to 20 percent are in favour. We should therefore work to ensure that this desire, this will, is implemented by the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7798	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7819	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. At the latest since the last tourism survey came out and it was found that the Canadians are among the most popular tourists in Austria and also the Austrians would like to travel to Canada, the FPÖ obviously thought that perhaps a Canada and CETA bashing is not so opportunistic. In addition, the expert of the Ministry of Health in the CETA debate on the main committee also found that neither food safety nor standards are at risk by CETA. The fact that CETA is now entering the provisional application is also likely to cause citizens to finally realize that they have no disadvantage. This will probably also have contributed to the transition to TTIP at the FPÖ. ==References====External links== Negotiations in New York There are no TTIP negotiations at the beginning of October. It is also not a single TTIP chapter completed and completed, which is falsely claimed again and again. There is a small agreement in the pharmaceutical sector, but this chapter is not complete either. In this case I say once, unfortunately, because it would bring a lot of money to our pharmaceutical companies that could put it in research and development for new drugs. Trump immediately stopped the Trans-Pacific Agreement because of the negative trade balance at the time of accession, nor does he indicate that he wants to continue negotiating. [[Abg. Kogler: But you didn't follow the latest news!]] Because of the poor trade balance, he does not want to negotiate with an economically superior Europe, quite the contrary, he has offered bilateral trade agreements with Germany, Great Britain and France. I think we should leave the church in the village. I therefore propose, Mr Hübner, that you end your unhappy alliance with the NGOs and with the left, return to the path of reason, namely the market economy. Perhaps the fact that Mr. Strache took over a sponsorship for giraffes yesterday has caused you to look better at the garden fence.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7869	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7887	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hübner, you can imagine that we will not agree to this request. The only thing we heard from you was anti-American resentment and a sudden understanding of NGOs when they expressed their own opinion. So those in the Mediterranean are bad and those who are against free trade are good NGOs. [[Abg. Höbart: What does one have to do with the other?]] – It is always a bit difficult to explain. The position of the government parties on this question is almost schizophrenic. The mandate has been given for negotiation. In retrospect – yes, of course – one can change one's mind, but if it is just right for the surveys, one will keep it different with the free trade agreements. The Federal Chancellor said we should not go back to the standards of CETA. That's exactly what TTIP's goal should be. It should be a good agreement that we can only assess when the results are there. Why do we always expect the worst and have no confidence in the negotiators who negotiate this for us in the interests of the citizens of the European Union? Is it even about having no confidence in the EU? – I am excited what the Greens will say about this. There is nothing else in the FPÖ, perhaps with the greens. But the question of free trade is obviously a win-win situation for the populists in this house. Of course, what is distressing is the constant distance of facts you argue with, and the old resentments you are serving here to simply take advantage of a topic that is good to play. For example, there is a trade chain that uses a large-scale campaign around CETA to get into the right light of real patriotic regionality. If we were to list those goods that came to us through global trade, we would have nothing to buy. An environmental NGO, which is well deserved, is pushing against the new free trade agreement with Japan, with the reference that nothing is included in the whaling. Whaling! This is an issue which the EU has spoken against countless times, and import is not permitted, and this remains the case with this agreement. Then why should it even stand in there? – We would also have to write something into this agreement on the traditional songbird fishing of the Salzkammergut, otherwise we cannot be sure that this would not be at risk with the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement. It is not about standards, it is not about genetic engineering, it is not about whaling at all, but about the highest number of electorate. Interestingly, it is a hunt that is to be won by jumping back and forth and wirre erratische sich-non-safe-being, which is the right direction. On this question I also explicitly propose to the ÖVP to be inactive. This debate has been completely left to the demagogens who dispute this field with unfair and truly false claims. This is extremely dangerous because it endangers our prosperity, which is based on an open, free market economy and international trade. I hope that we can also deal with this issue in the election campaign and put the arguments on the table once and for all. If you are here on the side of the truth, are you on the side of free trade, on the side of future and progress, or do you want to go back to the past, the borders close in every respect, for people, for goods, for services, for workers? – This is not the way we want to go. [[Abg. Kogler: Who wants this, Mrs. Colleague? That's below your level!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7937	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e7958	That was a very interesting opinion. However, I would like to add that you should have given this speech in the American Congress, because the problem is there. President Trump defines free trade with “What’s Good for America?” and nothing else. He has therefore also intervened in an interesting ideological lecture at the World Economic Forum in Davos, where communist China had to explain to the capitalist USA what the benefits of free trade are. . At least this was a very interesting debate that took place there. I think the draft is positive. I also do not think that a difference between hard and soft is now appropriate, Mr Hübner. What we have to decide on TTIP here means that, on the basis of the current negotiating mandate, negotiations cannot continue, and I honestly believe that the Americans do not want to do so either. I am anyway skeptical of whether something else comes out of it at all. If President Trump wants to bring in Americana First, nothing will come true, because that is not the basic idea of free and fair trade between the different countries. I think there is something to add, namely the current question with the agreement on Japan. The thing that alienates me is: This text of the negotiation has 400 pages, but only a few pages are known. It has only been negotiating in the Hinterstüberl for four years. That's not all right, and they haven't learned anything! I find that very strange. My appeal is not only to the Commissioner for Trade to exert appropriate pressure on Japan, but also to Japan itself. It is simply so that we must not fall behind CETA, which concerns in particular the special rights for corporations and, in turn, the attempt to circumvent public courts through private bodies. These are rules that concern not only classical customs reduction, but standards, public procurement, procurement law, investment protection, competition law, services and market access. I quote from the motion for a resolution that we should actually decide on Japan, and I wonder why we have not yet come to an end with all the parties in order to do so. If you have such comprehensive regulations, it is essential to be careful. You can't stop that by saying, then we'll do a private story. We have experienced the debate at CETA, at TTIP and have just gone away from CETA. by setting up a public court. I think this is very crucial, even as far as Japan is concerned. Japan is not a country but a very important country with great economic strength. It must not be possible, too, to try again, through a back door, to undermine standards in Austria, in Europe, in the European Union, in terms of procurement rights and others under the title Investment Protection, Special Complaint Rights, and already in the run-up to regulations and laws in the individual countries, to exert pressure in this way. It must be possible for us here at the speaker's desk not to hold a world-view debate on free trade, yes or no, with almost religious traits, but to find ourselves a fair agreement by saying yes to free trade – yes! – but not so that standards that we set ourselves in Europe for our lives, our culture of life, the way we operate here, and how we understand social security will be undermined by those who really want to live together in a completely different order of society. That is what I am pleading for, and I believe that we should also try Japan – now I look over to the ÖVP – to come to a joint motion for a resolution, because that is to a great extent up-to-date and important.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8014	The next speaker is Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8035	Mr President. Minister! In recent weeks it has become relatively quiet about TTIP after Trump has meant that he has more negative attitudes to do so. The fact is, Germany and the USA have expressed their support for resumption of the negotiations. In order to address the comments made by my previous speakers and to make it clear: Free trade? - Of course! Free borders, all of this is not discussed here. What we are talking about here as a free trade agreement, namely TTIP, CETA, TiSA and also the new Japan agreement JEFTA, are a whole new generation of free trade agreements. The term is very cleverly chosen in terms of marketing technology, because there is already free trade. The customs duties are low. The Free Trade Agreement concerns 800 million people. I do not know how many Members have used the opportunity to look at the documents in the reading room. I looked at them, and there were still very, very many white spots in them, there were very, very many things very dirtyly formulated. The fact is, it's opaque. For years, an attempt has been made to leave the public out. It contains problematic clauses, and I do not mean just investor protection. The most important thing for me is: There is no escape scenario when we sign these free trade agreements, for example TTIP. I think it is very, very good that we will try to end the TTIP negotiations under the previous mandate. It is to be asked why the NEOS in this context are closer to American corporations than the European, the Austrian economy. A subject which has not yet been addressed, but which I think is very important, because not only in Austria, but also in much of Europe, one has vehemently spoken against, is a resurgence of Fracking. We know exactly that in America, in the USA fracking is being forced, a lot of fracking is being done. In Austria, the formulation is still very sluggish, in my opinion deliberately smeary. With TTIP, fracking would probably be allowed again in Austria. I therefore advocate that we pay attention to the precautionary principle and not sign it, not to sign a contract whose contents are not exactly known and from which there is, above all, no starting point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8080	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8102	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The approach that some speakers are discussing, in particular the government parties, requires a number of fundamental points to be made once again. You of the ÖVP should stop resisting the criticism of these agreements, whether TTIP, CETA or TiSA – with this we will still have a lot of joy, because your mayors will squeak in the ÖVP – so stupid. We should look at what it is about, namely, no trade agreements in the usual sense. They are even so motivated that they are all new types – but what is the new one? Indeed, no reasonable person has anything against trade if he is based on half the same levels of production and other levels in the respective countries. Otherwise, so-called free trade leads to more inequality in textbooks. In general, it only leads to greater prosperity if, by the way, the distribution behind it is also correct and if in advance it is clear that there are semi-balanced conditions, i.e. also corresponding regulatory ones. This is quite logical, and you do not even need to have studied economics. It's exactly the other way round! This is not a commercial contract. And then you pick “free” in the front, because that sounds great. Today everything is free: free there, free there, free there, yes. [[Abg. Riedler: Freedom!]] – Free love, the ÖVP still has a problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the only one, yes. Even Mrs. Merkel is still there, but maybe you're still going. This is therefore totally shackled, because in reality it is regulatory or, in fact, deregulation agreements and standard-setting agreements, but actually standard-setting agreements. Why? – Because they are designed in such a way that, for logical and economic reasons, they tend to go down in the trend. It wouldn't have to be that way! Of course, agreements would be great, which would generally raise the standards. That's where we'd be for it. That is why we also say: fair trade – instead of any alleged free trade. And that's what it's about! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's not why we're standing there alone. Nobel Laureate Stiglitz has fully analyzed this: After the financial and economic crisis, which could only arise this way because of this deregulation care, it was no longer possible in the national states to go further down. Then it was discovered that one could bind the states together and enforce national deregulation through state treaties, partly irreversible, as the previous speaker said. That's a clear and insidious attack! You should listen to this and not just wipe it away, because economics and trade are quite different from saying that politics should stand out and the corporations will do it somehow, including so nice, voluntary instruments where we talk a little bit. That's exactly the wrong thing! The elected representatives must again be allowed to say what is happening in Austria, in Europe and in the long term even by means of reasonable agreements between economic communities globally. That's our mission. So, what's up now? – This is what Chancellor Kern correctly recognized when he came into office, in this case he tried everything possible at CETA, I do not want to outline all of this only negatively, and after the CETA disaster, which was obviously one, at least negotiatingly and also in communication – that is admitted – he said: With TTIP, and that's the subject now, everything will be different. And now we're going to get to the point: What happened? . It has been said that Austria, first of all Chancellors and Foreign Ministers – at the time another ÖVP-Obmann – will immediately work in the Commission and the Council to amend the TTIP mandate. Yeah, nothing there! A Protocol note has been made on the occasion of an EU summit in which the actual decision has gone in the direction of making a decision even faster. Negotiations with Japan are equally opaque. These are the wrong developments! That's why you have to look at the main points. Core has claimed that we can still reject the privileged corporate rights. That is right, that is, here or then the newly chosen ones can do this. It's perfect! This also applies to CETA and especially CETA. Why? – Because thank God is not in the provisional application, and that is what he meant. But we can only reject the whole agreement, and we should do so in order to renegotiate CETA. In the mood, interest and opinion situation in Austria, MEPs would be well advised to do so. ==References====External links== It is also a day of referendum on this CETA and the TTIP Treaty. We'll take a look at it. We have a clear position: for trade, but reasonable and fair – according to environmental and social standards. So: Come on!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8160	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8182	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The negotiation of these trade agreements showed two characteristic features that make people completely satisfied the EU's policy and policy at all. On the one hand, one, if I may say so, is more presumptuous Elite's opinion that she already knows how it is right and how it works. If democratic protest occurs, it will in fact only be a short-term departure from its projects if it is absolutely necessary. Hardly lay down, she'll do it again. Secondly, you are raising your opinion on a kind of dogma, which has now been heard by my colleague, Mr Minzig, and also by Mr Gamon, about which we should not be discussed at all. And that's not how it goes. Especially at TTIP you can see the first good: They do not really care about what democracy really means, namely participation and participation of citizens. If you think that's not good for you when you go through your projects, then there's no such thing as that. The transparency of the negotiations was rightly a criticism. They only have to protest after laborious protests by the clubs and organizations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Furthermore, they have not referred to the fact that there are matters of content – others have already said that before me, such as Mrs. Collaborator Refusing Torfer – which you can or cannot do: the other social standards and ideas of environmental protection in the United States, for example. You can't really want them like that. However, it is particularly serious – and this has really been clearly demonstrated by Mr Cap and Mr Kogler – that there are things in there that are deceiving. If one is faced with a strong state that really asserts investment protection, then I do not want to see the Austrian negotiators converging and actually allowing us to influence our own legislation – between brackets. You don't want to! And that's the second thing I'm gonna do: Your opinion is like a dogma. Whoever is for free trade is for the future and modernity, and there are those who want to close the borders. There are those who want to advance prosperity, and there are those who do not understand anything of all and want to reduce prosperity. But this is a very pragmatic issue. Since we do not yet have a Communist group, all of us are representatives of free trade under certain very clearly defined conditions, which can be discussed. And that's exactly what you should do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are always quadrilateral tones with them. And one of those words that show as clearly as you believe that To put her mind absolutely was this terrible word of alternativeness. Policy is basically the decision between different possibilities! I can only say: Don't refuse the discussion! Return to the participation of citizens! Go inside and change!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8236	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8257	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On TTIP negotiations: On the part of the European Union, secret negotiations were held for their Member States on the free trade agreements CETA and TTIP. Although CETA is to be described as concluded, Trump's election as President of America considered the TTIP agreement to be irresistible. In particular, this situation was well received by the local population. The United States should now have voted in favour of continuing the negotiations. This is probably the precarious economic situation of America. Europe is supposed to stand up for the interests of America. Both the negotiations on CETA and those on TTIP were conducted almost the same as secret negotiations without significant information from the population as consumers. The EU Member States decide to buy the cat in the bag as well. The production of Austrian goods meets a high standard, in the food sector free of genetic engineering. This status shall be maintained at a variable level. Free trade agreements favour international trade. In the case of TTIP, this means the exchange of high quality against inferior quality, with transport costs leading to an increase in lower quality. It is not reasonable for the consumer to have to buy low-quality quality, as high-quality domestic production flows into export. With regard to the approval of genetic engineering and also the transport effort, the question arises: Where is the call of the Greens? The policy of driving the EU through its Member States and their population is to be halted. The EU should be called upon to put the cards on the table and to make available to the public the results of the negotiations so far. Several proposals from the EU have repeatedly adversely affected Austria economically. It is important to promote the Austrian economy in a sustainable way. Free trade agreements with affected economic systems must be strictly rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8303	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8330	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! The previous speakers have already said a lot about the international agreements. I mentioned earlier in the discussion on South Sudan's development aid that it would be essential to conclude fair and transparent agreements. The feeling of citizens is, of course, an ungood thing, as has already been mentioned, when results are constantly squeezed out, squeezed out or not to be published at all and you are presented with finished facts. On the occasion of the debate on these international free trade agreements, I would like to take a step back to Austria's latest development, because I believe that the situation cannot be better described, described and presented. I have here the latest edition of “Our Country”, the warehouse newspaper, from the RWA. [[The speaker keeps the magazine up to date.]] And there is the editorial by Werner Jandl: “Cooperation is a world heritage. ” We know how proud we are of our cooperatives; it is vital for farmers to survive. It means here: ‘Cooperatives have received international recognition. Co-operatively organized self-help has recently been an immaterial unesco cultural heritage of humanity. I think cooperatives are timeless modern. But especially in phases of change like now – think of digitization, globalisation, migration,... – self-responsibility, cohesion or regional value added are of particular importance.” And this significance will be presented two pages later, ladies and gentlemen, because the RWA opened the new largest Austrian grain chamber 14 days ago at the Danube in Aschach. Wonderful! The only thing the corn chamber has to do with farmers is that farmers' money is inside, but not Austrian grains. Niki Berlakovich, a former Minister of Agriculture, is thinking about how good the yields will be in this drought and in this drought. And at the same time, in the market reports, I already see the reports: Record harvest! Unfortunately, low prices. The goods can only be taken over without a price guarantee! – And these silo facilities are where the foreign goods come into. Here also comes the AMA seal-capable palm oil, and then we sell, of course – Mr Minister, very decisively! – Austrian quality feed. Is that why we need these free trade agreements to compete, rival and cheat each other internationally? In the case of a kilogram of wheat traded 55 times – I ask you to read the protocol then, it seems that there is no time to listen – 53 people want to make good and not contribute to it, and that is the problem we have with this Group economy, with this globalized Group economy. [[towards Federal Minister Kurz]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He has to play with the phone!]] And that's why our very clear statement: Globalisation serves corporations, regionalization serves people. Human beings must be at the heart of the political goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8383	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8404	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Termination of TTIP negotiations: No one understands that these negotiations are taking place in secret, but this process and appearance fit exactly into this EU. The concerns of the people, the fears of the people, the fears of the people are totally different from that of the EU. This EU is simply driving over the concerns, fears and fears of people. We will see how long these negotiations have been under way. Since the presidential change in the United States, although the opinion has changed as regards this free trade agreement between the United States and Europe, the question is only how long it will take. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this agreement is to take account only of the desire for profit of the large, huge corporations. People's concerns don't matter. To date, there are no sufficient documents, official documents or information on the current status of negotiations, so you can only reject this project in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8438	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 3. First: Opinion on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1704 of the additions to the resolution.2250/A(E) I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1704 on no continuation of TTIP negotiations on the basis of the current negotiating mandate. Who agrees to this request? - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 209.) [[11:41:13]] 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on the request 2255/A of Member Erwin Spindelberger, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, colleagues concerning a Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on primary care in primary care units (Primary Care Act – PrimVG) and the Health Insurance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health Insurance Act and Accident Insurance Act, the Housing Act, the Health Insurance and Health Organization Act, the Health and Hospital Law 2012, the Health and Hospital Care Act 2012, the Hemamming Act, the Medical Assistance Act and the Medical Massives Act (Health Reform Act 2017 – GRUG 2017) (1714 d.B.) 5. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 414/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on measures and support programme to ensure medical care in rural areas (1715, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8513	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First word message: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8537	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now talking about the primary supply law, a law that has been discussed for a very long time and in which there have been very many criticisms, from our side, also from other bodies, the doctor's chamber, for example, other health professions, to the ÖVP, which has always called this into question. Nevertheless, after four years of negotiation, this law was passed in the Health Committee. Now you have to say honestly: For me, as an observer of the situation, this was all the more surprising yesterday when the chairman of the ÖVP expressed himself and said he would like to strengthen the family doctor. I do not know exactly how this can be done with this law – I tell you: not at all! Because with this law, we are launching today the end of the family doctor; the end of the family doctor, who is not only the most popular doctor among the Austrians, but above all also the trusted doctor. We are very pleased to hear his end today, and I know that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek will come back to the floor and we will talk about everything again. I now quote from the text of the law – and I have the law in its entirety here today so that you can't take out and contradict any points again –: There will be no parallel existence of primary care and domestic doctors! This is not provided for in this law, because if a family doctor leaves his home doctor's office, this job will no longer be re-occupied for five years unless a primary care centre takes over this post. – This is clear and clear in the law: It must not be possible for the ‘volume of performance to be covered by a contractual doctor (...) of the respective office within five years from the date of release of the institution by a new contract’ with another service ‘Unless the power volume is covered by a primary supply unit’. – That means there will be no parallel structure here! The second is – and you have tried to make this clear to us in committee – that: It is a question of reserveing a place. This also does not work so unchallenged, because if a doctor is now willing to work in a primary care centre, then it is not really what he has imagined, because he would like to contact the patients, he would like to know his patients, not work in an anonymous unit, and would like to leave there, it is not as easy for him to take his request back. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Maybe you'd have the goodness to listen to me once. After all, they are coming to the fore anyway. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You could learn something about it, because you deny it. This is the text of the law – it is also reasonable for the ladies of the SPÖ to read it through. [[The speaker showed]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] And if you don't understand, I'm so sorry. A doctor who excites can't say right away that he wants his doctor's office back. No, there are health insurance companies and medical chambers in the country in question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not all right! That means there's a problem here. On all sides, at all corners and ends, try to push out the family doctor. There'll be no more home doctor soon! - That's what this law is about. The second point was that Mr Obmann asked the ÖVP yesterday to put a photo on the e-cards. I am very pleased that I have called for this since 2006, and I am going to bring it in today, because this primary health care you are introducing today will lead to an absolute anonymity, and no doctor will know his patients anymore. It is also not provided for in this law that doctors can employ doctors in order to be able to build a certain family structure here. You didn't do all that! They want an anonymous centre, an anonymous national health center. Therefore, doctors do not know their patients, so abuse is open door and gate. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to make another motion for a resolution. Because genuine primary care in the health sector is more than just a specific one. I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8671	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8787	Next word: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8808	In one point, my colleague, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, I am right – but that is already the only one –: that already in 2014 the lines for today’s – this is a bit of a tonguebreaker – health reform implementation law have been set. But at the time, as today, the focus of all considerations was on the questions: What will the health care of the future look like? And above all: What care do patients also need in order to be provided medically but also medically as best as possible? – I am convinced: If there had not been a close-up between federal, state and social security at the time, already in 2014, then we would not be here today and could not decide on this law. You said that we wanted to abolish the family doctor by this law: That's not true at all! The fact is that many of the younger doctors no longer apply for planning facilities with cash contracts, which in turn leads to many regions in Austria already being medically under-supplyed. What does that mean in practice? – If I no longer have a doctor with a cash agreement in the nearby area, I have to go to an electorate and have to pay the treatment costs for the most part from my own pocket. It can't be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We all know here – and we have often discussed this enough – that over the next seven or eight years 60 percent of domestic doctors will retire, so we have to act now, because everything else would be negligent! That is why this law creates the framework conditions that will also meet these challenges of the present and the future. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We do not make up domestic doctors at all!]] On the one hand, we have to consider the medical needs of the population, and they have changed, because people are getting older and older thanks to a good health system, on the other hand – and we do not need to deny that – chronic diseases are increasing. In addition, in many families, both parents follow a profession and the call for longer opening hours of the ordinations becomes ever louder. On the other hand, listen quietly to what I have to say! – but many of the young doctors do not want to offer their services exclusively in the individual coordinations known to us, but they also want to be able to offer a better range of services in the future in a team with other doctors and doctors and also with representatives of other health professions, such as midwives, physiotherapists, psychotherapists, but also massurs, pediatricians or pharmacists. I also talked to many young people who said: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: With doctors...!]] I would like to be able to better reconcile my profession and my family in the future. With this law, we will create the necessary framework conditions for this, which will in future make it possible for health centres and networks to be balanced in addition to the proven family doctor system with individual practices, which means that there will be more services in the near future. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Just not “near”!]] I also know that we – all of which I don't even dispute – enter Newland with this law and therefore in the next few years we will certainly have to turn on one wheel or another. But I am sure that this will lay the foundation for an even better medical care. I can tell you, I'm proud to have been involved. Finally, I would like to thank all those involved, starting from the Federal Ministry, because I have just looked at whether the Nina Pepper was, whether the Clemens Auer was, up to Gerhard Aigner, but would also like to thank the representatives of the clubs, Gabi Kotzegger, Philipp Hartig, and, last but not least, Erwin Rasinger. I know you jumped over your shadow sometime, but I think we have a really good compromise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It's a shame that it didn't mean that we could have a representation scheme, which would result in the appointment of doctors to doctors, where they could still pack in. Nevertheless, I would like you to agree to this draft law as many as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8887	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Rendi-Wagner, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e8908	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can refer here to this very, very important legislative proposal as well as position and position. It is a law that has required many years, a lot of energy and preliminary work, but it has paid off to invest this time, this energy and also these resources here. This law is now implementing a very important and necessary policy for the future of our health system, from my point of view. With this law, we not only ensure the health system of tomorrow in Austria, but also ensure the best possible health care for the people in Austria. Why do we need this change and this change, this further development in the field of primary supply? – We know from surveys, but also directly from patients, what they want. They want longer opening hours, accessibility of their domestic doctors, even at the end of the day. They wish for more time in conversation with their doctors. You also wish not to be sent by the health system pointlessly, from A to B, from one therapist to the next, or from one doctor to the next. We also know about the doctors what their needs, their requirements and wishes are for modern, timely working conditions. You want to work on the team. They wish to work in multi-professional teams, together with representatives of other health professions, psychotherapists, social workers, psychologists, dietologists and so on. And they have claims regarding their work-life balance; these are different claims than they had 30 years ago. These are claims concerning more flexible working hours, and there are also many women in the medical profession who claim these claims to improve the compatibility of work and family life. Just around these needs, in order to meet the needs of patients and health professionals, a new law was built and a new law was built to meet these needs and needs of today and also for tomorrow. One thing has already been mentioned: We also have a common challenge, which means: We know that by 2025 more than half of all domestic doctors will reach the retirement age. We cannot wait until 2025 to meet this situation. Today, eight years before, we need to create sensible framework conditions to counter this situation in order to make the family-care profession, the home-care profession so attractive that colleagues feel attracted to it and have the pleasure of taking this job in the future and thus ensuring the important pillar in primary care for patients today and tomorrow. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] This modern, new, modern form of supply is not only about pure treatment; it is also important to me. It is not only about the curative approach, it is also about taking a very strong look at this extended spectrum towards more health promotion, prevention and prevention, in the supply and supply spectrum for people. This is also achieved by the multi-professionality represented in these centres. We need to think of primary care more widely than before, that goes far beyond purely medical care. For the first time, the framework conditions that we have set out in this law really hold and possible that we say patients must be cared for by a team, a team around the family doctor. These include, of course, the nursing professions, therapeutic professions, social workers, nutrition consultants. This is exactly what older, chronically ill patients need more and in addition. will need more and more, but also young mothers who need breast-feeding and midwives advice in addition to purely medical advice. That's what it's all about. If we decide a law here today, we also know that there is the time after the decision has been taken. We are therefore at the beginning of implementation. We must jointly show responsibility for the successful implementation of this new concept. We are all called upon to take care of the health professions, the policies, social security and also the countries in their responsibilities. We must ensure that this law is implemented quickly, quickly, that these new, more attractive offers come to the Austrians faster. That's exactly what it's all about: This law sets out a framework which defines, on the one hand, the quality which defines the competences of the health professions, the organisational framework that should be the same throughout the country. We do not want to have any flickering sticks of different standards in Austria, all Austrians should find the same offers here. It is also a matter of modern contractual relations, which are held in this law for the first time, of new, modern credit systems. This too is a further development that has long been necessary. It will also happen that patients will be cared for nearby, even at the end of the day, and therefore no longer forced to go to hospital hospitals from 4 a.m. in the afternoon and to produce overcrowded hospitals there. That is to say, it is also about the discharge of the hospital area that we are doing well with it. However, it is also about doctors having more time to talk with their patients in the future. It is also about having the conversation with their colleagues and also with other health professionals. A criticism has been made of the question of the restriction of the existing system. Yes, that's what our law also provides: It is about the best possible restriction with existing structures. First of all, this is to be an offer to today's family doctors who are already under contract, who will be the first contact persons and will be invited to become carriers of new healthcare, regional health centres. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there has been a lot of discussion on this topic in recent years, two and a half years of intensive negotiations with experts, with system partners, with the medical profession, with the representatives of the health professions. Until last, in the last days, until last week, intensive discussions have taken place. I should also like to thank all those involved who have accompanied these two years of intensive discussions and negotiations that have put their energy there, especially the health speakers Erwin Spindelberger and Erwin Rasinger, for their work, and, of course, also my officials and the club who have really done great things here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These intensive discussions have led to a good solution at the end of the day. It has paid off, it is a solution that will bring something to all people in Austria. It will help patients in the sense of modern, new care, which today's needs and Tomorrow, she will bring more, and she will also bring something into care for the health professionals, i.e. the general medical practitioners, the therapists and the people. I just want to say: Let's not lose time, let's go, let's get this good new healthcare system into the open! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9007	Next come Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9029	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The woman minister has already stated that this is a law that has been working on for a very long time. One could now say: What lasts for a long time will finally be good. Unfortunately, I have to say: No, this law has really not become good. This law should actually be a milestone, so to speak, at the height of the Austrian health reform. That was nothing from our point of view. Instead, it became a broken law, a fragmented law that is in need from the beginning. It's already a highlight, but it's a highlight of client policy. On the one hand, the interests of the guards in the doctor's chamber have been enforced, actively supported and represented by Mr Rasinger, one must also say. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I don't know a doctor who wants the law!]] From my point of view, it is up to the health professions and the patients who should have benefited from this law and also to the Austrian health care system, for which this law is very important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In principle, we support primary supply. We see this as a very great opportunity for a better quality of care, that health care should also come together with the treatment of chronic diseases and acute diseases, multidisciplinarity, cooperation. Health professionals should offer a wider range of treatments and strengthen a holistic view of people. The lotsen system – as Mrs. Minister has already mentioned – is very, very important to give patients the safety that they land in the right place in the health system, and the more attractive opening hours are also important. We know where there is primary care – therefore primary care is really important – there is also longer healthy life expectancy. We also need this primary supply structure in order to relieve the hospitals in Austria and to extend the health care system to other health professions, and also to have a cure against the lack of doctors. What has been successful from our point of view – and I see this as a green success, because we have been very committed to it – is that capital companies are not allowed to operate an ambulatories and that the company is limited to joint benefit, to social security itself and to local authorities, e.g. municipalities and community associations. But there are a lot of criticism points. The necessary, really necessary appointment of doctors with doctors has been prevented, has fallen victim to an unsuccessful deal around the representative doctors. I think that is very, very bad, not to say without responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The representative medical regulation will now continue to exist on very thin ice. This is a legal grey area, because it may be about circumventing employment conditions, and even the attractiveness for young doctors – that is exactly what we wanted – is not possible. One does not have the flexibility to work and perhaps to work part-time. Also, the ambulatorys will have an advantage, because there is no need to hire, in a group practice or in the network. Non-medical health professionals should be a key element in primary care. However, they are in no way adequately pictured and regulated in this law; there is no need to talk about equality at all. The services of non-medical staff are not listed, there is no minimum remuneration – that is not secured – no general contractual arrangement or direct settlement with the cash offices. What doctors have fought with teeth and claws for, you have coldly denied the non-medical health profession. There are no fees, and there are no key points in a collective contract in the event of recruitment. Social professions, the social workers we have said, it is quite, very important, because it is also a social medical approach, are not even mentioned in this law. A third point: Pediatricians can become part of the primary supply unit. From the point of view of pediatricians – and this I join – this may mean a weakening of pediatric medicine. There should also be individual primary care units for children and young people, with specialised staff also on the side of the non-medical health professions, which are specifically trained for children and young people. Therefore, essential elements of primary supply have been neglected to the greatest extent. The question, therefore, is whether the primary supply in this form will be able to develop in any way as we would have liked. I therefore propose an amendment to reorganise the law: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9142	Both the amendment tabled and the motion for a resolution tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9326	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9347	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Sometimes I feel like I'm in the wrong opera. [[Abg. Scherak: You are in Parliament!]] I've been a house doctor for 33 years, I've got all the cups in the closet and I know what I'm doing. But if I listen to this today, I think, I must have been in complete spiritual hibernation or in the noise of drugs when I negotiated the law. [[Abg. Karlsböck: Yes!]] The fact is: This law is an additional offer. Primary care makes worldwide, no matter what system you look at, the family doctor, or call him General Practicer, once straightening out the definition. We from ÖVP don't want a system change. England, Holland, Denmark have centers, first contact point is the only one when it says that the doctor is necessary, the doctor comes along and so on. In my opinion, the Austrian system is better. 65 million doctor-patient contacts alone show me that little can be changed. Eight times a year the Austrians go to their family doctor. Why should you change that? But my access was that you should also allow new ones. I think it is a fundamental human right. A game of thought: Victor Adler has been working for the poor people at Wienerberg. Who would Victor Adler use today? I keep saying this: For older people, over 75, fragile, perhaps mentally limited, we must build the system! If it's okay for them, it's okay for me, too. They don't always have a car that needs a hundred percent confidence that they have taken care of in the neighborhood, as far as possible within walking distance. This law, in my opinion, breathes cooperation. The law must be implemented, and we have been careful to ensure that the doctor's board acts together with the health insurance companies and together with the federal government, so that everything is done together accordingly, the professions should also work together and work together. But I don't want to tell you that there's a thunderstorm cloud over the law in general. We have a shortage of doctors, a shortage of general medical care. Why? – On average, domestic doctors earn 40 percent less, it doesn't work the teaching practice, in the hospital the one who decides to become a house doctor is an underdog. I am a family doctor with body and soul, I love the profession, I love my patients, but if it continues, then we will not experience the beautiful new world with more domestic doctors, more time and so on. Switzerland has responded and even incorporated the family doctor into the constitution, Germany has responded, the Baden-Württemberg model works wonderfully, in England there is the contract for general practices. That means I don't want the Kevin-only-to-house game. Imagine, there's a law, but you don't have doctors anymore! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I want good doctors with empathy, skill and experience that also have time. According to the ÖVP, this is an additional offer and the family doctor and remains the backbone of the care in every municipality.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9429	Mr Mag. Loacker's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9450	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is interesting for Mr Rasinger to give an opposition speech to the family doctor, where he has negotiated this law, which is now to be decided, and has brought the position of the doctor's chamber directly there. You're wondering what's going on here. It also told Sebastian Kurz, the new head of the ÖVP, yesterday on the radio, what is bad in the medical care in Austria and what you have to do. That's where I ask myself again: Who has been responsible for government for 30 years and is not actually aware of the fact that everything we have today is the result of your work? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, many things have to be done to attract the profession of general medicine, but all that you have to do is not done with this law. This law does not take us any further in improving medical care for the citizens. What could you do? – The general physician, for example, is unfortunately a second-class doctor, made from the system to such a one, because there is still no specialist examination for the general physician, and so the other specialists are, and he is – under quotation marks – “only” general physician. This is a status question which is crucial for young doctors in the choice of profession. Another point is the credit by the cash registers. If, in an answer to a question from the main association, I am told that a cashier can achieve a deficit or a maximum cost coverage with the cash benefits, then you must not be surprised if young people do not seek this profession if they are told from the outset: You have to do private services, or you won't deserve anything! The checkouts bring this scarcity to mind; the health insurance fund is glad if there are few domestic doctors, because then they don't have to pay the cash doctor's visits, then the people go to the private doctor, which is always cheaper for the cash desk. It has also been mentioned the appointment of doctors in doctors. Now the SPÖ has finally changed its position. Three years ago, Mr Spindelberger said that it is not possible that “a primary other doctor has a ‘teaching content’ instead of having his own yacht” – literally, this can be read in Parliament’s correspondence, dear Erwin. Now the SPÖ has finally put in a 180 degree turn and would be willing to make this medical appointment possible, and the Dr. Rasinger, who is now calling, is opposed and has left out a possibility in the sense of the doctors, because the doctor's chamber has found a hair in the soup again. Then on the question of who operates such a primary supply centre: This may now be done by doctors who are not allowed to hire doctors; they are allowed to do so together, but they are not allowed to do so. The health insurance fund may operate a primary care centre, and of course it may employ doctors. – So I’m wondering what the difference is; it’s about employment in both cases. And it's about who's funding a PHC. In fact, investors must not take the doctor in, he gets the money from the bank. He's picking up foreign capital somewhere – either from the bank or from an investor. A non-profit investor may be taken in, a bank may be taken in, but not another investor. What makes sense is that no human can explain to me. A brief sentence on the motion for a resolution of the Liberals concerning the care and financing of care: This topic is too delicate to be heated populistly in the election campaign. We shall therefore vote against this motion for a resolution because we wish for an agreed, thoughtful procedure here, and not a quick shot in the campaign; but this danger exists now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9517	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9538	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I am convinced that it must be the goal of health policymakers to ensure security of supply, to ensure high quality and, above all, to ensure the presence of doctors of their own personal trust in the future, as far as possible, and above all free of charge. I think that is the top priority of health policymakers. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So leave with the restraint!]] I'm convinced: With the primary supply law that we will adopt today, we are coming closer to the requirements that we should impose on ourselves. With this law, we not only allow doctors, in networked practices, to work in networks, but – the minister has already mentioned it – it can also help caregivers in this network, there can be physiotherapists, social workers, dietologists, so there are multi-professional teams that will take care of people's health in the future. I am convinced that this will help the doctors for whom health professionals will make improvements, to get closer to the living conditions of health professionals. However, we will also benefit the patients, with the longer opening hours that have already been addressed, and also with the multi-professional teams. I would also like to say that there will be doctors of trust in the future. In the centres or networks, no anonymous robots are working, there will be doctors who will build up a trust relationship with patients, just as the general physicians do in general medical practice. This too will happen in the future in the centres or in the healthcare networks – I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen! One can look at and deal with problems differently. One can long for the good old, one cannot allow change, one can frighten people, or one can actively shape them, one can take responsibility, and one can develop the system that is good, in order to ensure a 100% health care for people in the future. With the Primary Supply Act we create a win-win situation for the patients and also for the doctors of the future. I am convinced and hope that everyone will agree. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A word on the request of the liberals regarding the abolition of self-regulatory: We will not agree to this proposal today because we are trying to formulate an initiative in Parliament or even to achieve a legislative change. We will continue to work in the next few hours so that we can take action from Parliament and do not have to call on the government to take action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9594	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9615	Mr President. Minister! We have known for many, many years, that there are quite some misdevelopments in the health sector. We know that we are just ahead of a wave of retirement, which will, in particular, seriously affect the security of supply in rural areas; we know that the medical profession has to contend with a lack of attractiveness; we know that very many young doctors who are newly trained migrate abroad; and we also know that there are very long waiting times for the patient for appointments and investigations. We've known all this for a long time. Now we are trying to counter this law to one point or another. This law has now been worked for four years, we have heard it. I tell you quite honestly, the output to respond to these problems is a very, very small one after four years of work, and I think, even in the eyes of many others. If one comes to four years of work in the free economy with such a result, I would like to see what the further economic success looks like. In this law some formulations are very, very immature. There are very sluggish formulations, that is, one fears that, in future, there can and will be some difficulty in interpreting and also legal uncertainty. Many points that are at the centre of criticism have already been deleted. I would like to stress our criticisms here, namely the domestic doctors who are going to have a massive problem in the country. Of course, we have heard it too, the young people are no longer assured. – You have to act right there and ask yourself how you can guarantee young people. Why is there the problem? – Not because there are too few doctors, but because the profession is not attractive enough. House doctors can simply operate in the countryside, in the rural region no longer cost-effective. I would have liked other solutions. I see the primary supply units as critical – accessibility, flexibility, many doctors under one roof et cetera. One has then looked at how this should be solved, especially in terms of accessibility. For Vienna, 16 units are planned, for the Burgenland and Vorarlberg three. How this is supposed to be possible on foot, I like to look at it. Another very important criticism is certainly the insufficient consideration of non-medical health professionals. There are no minimum standards regarding payment or fair insurance in social security. In the health field, it is very important to me that the patient always has to stay human. He must never be the number, because just when you're sick, trust and sensitivity are important. I really wish that the doctor of trust – we have heard it several times – is now the family doctor. The doctor should be able to take care of the patient with 99.9 percent and not undergo bureaucracy. On the topic of photo on the e-cards: The doctor is obliged to control this. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We heard it yesterday: Mr Kurz will also have chosen this point as one of his ten points for the Health and Care Plan. I am very pleased that, among other things, he has also included my request, and I am already very excited about how we are voting here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9686	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9746	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9767	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Close-up services are becoming increasingly important in the age of globalisation. People want to be sure that the things that are important to them, sometimes even vital, are within reach. This is especially true of the local medical care. The supply, the therapy that people need, is a command of the hour. With this draft law, we are creating the conditions for providing this close-up service also under the changed circumstances. It has already been said a lot about For and against this law. Since it is likely to be my last speech on a health issue, I would like to make a few comments on what such a primary care centre could offer. Imagine having strong complaints in the lumbar spine and getting a transfer to the X-ray from the doctor of your trust. You don't need to drive to a far-away X-ray institute, but you go to the radiology technologist who works with a mobile X-ray device in the primary supply unit and then send the image to a doctor to find it. Imagine, you will also receive a transfer to physiotherapy and can make the appointment immediately in the center. Imagine that you may be able to share your possibly existing obesity, which together with the missing muscles has contributed to your complaints, together with the Fighting dietologist on-site, and the necessary laboratory values provide the also cooperating biomedical analysts. Imagine, your child has a developmental residue and you will find in the primary supply unit both an ergotherapist who is concerned with fine motors, as well as a logopaedin who takes care of an adequate language, and there are the orthoptistin for existing vision problems. It is obvious that the primary supply units for psychological problems are also possible to accompany and treat psychologists and psychotherapists. This scenario is very beautiful, but in many areas still future music, since on the one hand there is still a lot of conditions in the ASVG and in the present law also health professions such as the biomedical analysts, the radiology technologists and the orthoptists are not mentioned at all. I think it must be the policy’s claim to create these often and much quoted framework conditions so that the primary supply unit really becomes the best team around the patient. This will only be possible if all, i.e. medical and non-medical health professionals, work together equally and at an eye to the patient's well-being. This law is therefore a correct step in the right direction, but there is still a lot to be done. The work will therefore not be carried out by the responsible person during the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9816	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9837	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you stay static on a rough sea on your ship, you will fall. That is the same thing, of course, in real life. Of course, it takes adaptations to changed times, adjustments in the system as such. The aim must be to have low level of access to the medical system; free choice of doctors, free choice of practitioners; the care practitioner; the latest therapies must be guaranteed; [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... the patients!]] Medicine costs must not rise too much; and a sedentary social medicine. All that we consider to be desirable in this area is, unfortunately, being opposed to this law. I would like, because time is short, to address again very briefly why we are so massively opposed to this law: Until now, the practical doctor was in the center, which also wants the population to do so, and it is also assumed that way – the family doctor, decentralized, free choice of doctor. In the future, ambulatory ambulatorys or centers will assume this function. De facto means dying out of the practical doctor. Why is that so? – In the future, a call for tender will be made in a region where a practical doctor will deposit his cash contract. If there are not enough doctors in the period of half a year to set up a so-called primary medical centre, then the health insurance companies or other hospitals have the right to settle there. This means centralization in this area. If a doctor returns a contract, this contract – at least in this draft – will be held back for five years until a centre can be set up in this area. We put the following concepts on the table: If you really want a low level of access, a supply to the margins and the like to take place, then you have to allow the doctors to hire doctors. But that is not specified. It should also be borne in mind that the doctor is of course also a businessman when he ventures out into free practice. It needs framework conditions such as a real medical community. No young colleague will take a risk in these insecure things. The contractual situation will also be such that, as today, an overall contract for the medical board will no longer protect the doctors more or less. There will be individual contracts, and they will be extortionable. This system will not be accepted by the doctors, we can predict it today. Mr Rasinger, it's not an additional offer, as you said, it's de facto a system changeover. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Either – or!]] Mr Steinhart stood up yesterday and praised Mr Kurz's 10-point programme, by which the practical doctor is now finally to be upgraded. I can only say: Your speech today was a good opposition speech, dear colleague Rasinger! This is one of the biggest constituencies that are taking place, especially by the Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a fear of our side, but we can only say to the young colleagues: Please leave your fingers off such an experiment! We can also say that when we get into government responsibility, we will of course bring this law back to where it belongs. We really want a high-performance health care. The path that is now being taken leads directly to the two-class medicine: Those who can't afford it go to the ambulatory, and the others go to the increasingly stronger private medicine, speak to the doctor, pay cash there, and perhaps don't get money back. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9896	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9917	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Before I begin my remarks, I would like to welcome the class 4a of the New Middle School here in the Hohe Haus, on behalf of the colleague Gusenbauer-Jäger. [[General condolences.]] With today's decision of the Health Reform Act, I believe, we are taking a right, large and important step, so that an additional – and I emphasize this deliberately so clearly – and diverse health care, especially in rural areas The area is so important and not easy to achieve can be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of talk about this legal provision today. A responsible policy has the task of solving problems and, as Mr Rasinger said, of allowing new ones. I believe that with these legal provisions we will ensure health care for the future, will be properly aligned, have approved new And perhaps the problem that will occur in the future has already been packed and solved at the root. I would like to comment on a number of points. The domestic doctors can now, as has already been done, join in centres or networks so that an extensive health care can be offered, which, in turn, serves people and patients. House doctors can work on the team. Teamwork is especially important today, but the centres allow every individual doctor to specialize, and the patients can use this specialized health care. With these health centres we also allow us to go to the patient – for us the patient is always the focus – and the proximity to the home is thus guaranteed or enabled. A large range of health services is also possible. One important point for me is that the time limit is no longer given. In order for these centres to be established as widely as possible, patients may also visit these health facilities at unusual times. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law we ensure not only the medical care, but also the cooperation of the various health professionals. With this law we also go new ways and allow the appointment of doctors to doctors by law if the legal entity in the primary care centre is an association or an independent ambulatory. I think that this is also an essential step in the development of the medical profession. Ladies and gentlemen, primary care for me is an important part of our health care. Today, with this law, we are setting the course for the future, for a future in which the patient can be supplied close to, comprehensive and medically as possible. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on this forward-looking law. I think it's an enrichment for the entire health care system.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e9982	Mr. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10006	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are now discussing a question of the health system and health care in Austria. We have already heard the topics: Photo on the e-card, withdrawal of care regimen, upgrading of the practical doctor. – We heard all of this yesterday from the ÖVP even out of high-ranking mouth. I just don't know what it is: ÖVP old, ÖVP new, ÖVP in between, ÖVP up, ÖVP down?- Oh, my God! This can now be defined more closely. It's just nothing implemented, and in the excuse of why nothing happens, there's As always, they're not very tender. What have we heard now? – Yes, on the Pflegregress, we still have to work, and there will be an initiative proposal, perhaps a law. Make Finally, you agree with what the people expect of you, what you are announcing! And stop by ÖVP and SPÖ with this constituency! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] A point of constituency: I now come to a group of people who are putting their health at risk in order to make voluntary and voluntary use of it. I speak of the members of the voluntary fire brigades who enjoy a high reputation and are therefore always particularly praised by SPÖ and ÖVP politicians during Sunday's speeches, and it is thanked to them for their use. [[Call the ÖVP:On the topic!]] I think it is a real ignorance when politicians at the country level are dealing with resolutions: Yes, the burden of VAT must be taken from the voluntary fire brigade, and if these applications come to Parliament, SPÖ and ÖVP will always vote against them. [[Call to the ÖVP:On the subject, Mr Colleague!]] Now we come to another point: In action, in life salvation, voluntary firemen come into contact with injured people; and that is good because they are the ones who can also save these people. However, they put their health at risk, especially when it comes to the transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis. The Federal Minister is one of whom we have learned that she is particularly well known with the vaccination and is therefore a special defendant of the vaccination. It is only right and cheap that the volunteer fire brigades should not take the risk of hepatitis infection. There has been an action, the Minister of the Interior has been broken because AUVA refuses to do so because she says firemen are not a risk group. In their opinion, the risk groups are the employees of nail studios, home aids, pharmacists and garbage sorters, which are among the risk groups. Firemen, on the other hand, who also have to do with the injured, are not included. It would be an act of propriety in dealing with our volunteer firemen if the vaccination were brought where it belongs, namely to the AUVA. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, do what you promise on Sunday! You agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10084	Mr Dr. The motion for a resolution tabled by the rosary is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10163	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10185	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! On behalf of my colleague, Mr Sieber, I would like to warmly welcome the students and teachers of the New Middle School of Lech am Arlberg. [[General condolences.]] Mr Rosenkranz, I would like to say to you: The representatives of the ÖVP, whether they were the representatives of yesterday or those of today or tomorrow, are always those who say something that also work on and implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercessions of the Deputies Königsberger-Ludwig, Belakovich-Jenewein and Peter Wurm.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A lot will be said if the day is long!]] Now I would like to come to the topic of primary supply centres. I come from the forest district, which is mostly a rural area. For rural areas, it is important that health care is ensured in good form in the future. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: primary supplies...!]] Our health system faces new challenges, so in 2020 we have almost a third of doctors, 2030 even three quarters – starting with 14 275 general doctors – who are over 65 years old. That's why new models are needed. We know that medicine is becoming more and more female in the future, and women in particular want more attractive working hours, want compatibility of family and profession, and of course they do not want to be individual fighters, but work in groups and networks. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The medicine was always female, or was it called medicine?]] Therefore, the Primary Supply Act is a point that creates new framework conditions and a new additional offer and does not constitute competition with domestic doctors. In particular, domestic doctors are very important, they should also be present in every congregation in the future; this is an important concern for us. The family doctor will continue to be the first contact person on health issues in the future. Of course, it is also important that there are new incentives for young doctors – in education and in the honors – because this will enable us to secure the home-based care even in the future. In this sense, this law is an important complement to our health system so that we can ensure the continuation of medical care both in urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10269	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10290	Mr President. Minister! High house! A glacier screamed, and a little mouse was born – this is an old saying of Horaz, which hardly fits where better than this law that we are unfortunately given to God in this High House today. From my point of view, as a 25-year active doctor, former hospital director and now in the branch of a specialist and a practical doctor, I can only shake my head and wonder about these many phrases that are contained in this law. Erwin Rasinger has already spoken today and also said off the record, without him this law would have become much worse. – I’m right about it, it would have gotten worse, but it’s bad enough how it should be now and how it will come now. It is a pity for the many work done by the experts, the officials from the Ministry of Health, for the much energy of the representatives of non-medical health professionals who have been powdered in there and have led to such a meagre outcome. There is so much missing and there remains so much diffuse in this law that it is really dazzling. Apart from the appointment of doctors to doctors, which has been mentioned several times today, everything with regard to the other professional groups remains completely unclear and completely irregular. It is not clear whether the representatives of non-medical health professionals should be employed on a professional basis in this primary supply unit or whether they should work independently there. What kind of responsibility should they assume? How are patient flows managed? If a patient with the cross pains already mentioned today comes to this primary care centre: Who's investigating him? Who's responsible? Does the house doctor or one of the many domestic doctors who are there look at him? Is he just looking at the secretary? Will he be sent away? Will he be sent to the specialist immediately? Who takes responsibility in these constructions, which read beautifully on paper, but in reality are not at all thoughtful? How does this work? I ask from the point of view of a doctor who has known the system for 25 years: How does that really work out there? - It can't work! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bureaucratic and content area of first rank. In reality, this will be a primary supplier disaster, in that it will not or will hardly be implemented. There will be a few of them somewhere that will call for subsidies, such as the health centre Vienna-Mariahilfe received subsidies from the municipality of Vienna. The other health centre, which has been in Vienna for many years, in the Danube city, next to the SMZ East, is still not in operation – still not in operation! And now we should adopt and accept this law as the great big throw, which represents the health reform of Austria? – I can't believe it, not at the best of will! But I can tell you that in practice the patients are insecure, scared, take money in their hands, and say: I'd rather be looking for an election doctor now because everything goes down the stream anyway! – These are quotations I hear in my ordination daily. I have a practice with small cash registers – i.e. contracts with BVA, KFA and railway social insurance – but a lot of patients who come to me as electorate patients, including unemployed, students who save themselves from the mouth and say: I'd rather go to the doctor and pay him, then I'd have a regular doctor, and I'd rather have the health, because the public system can't bring what it's supposed to bring! – Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this to be a big and profound problem, which is not taken into account in this law, because it is only a matter of primary supply units that are to be built somewhere, but nothing in it is about what it is supposed to look like in reality. We've heard that's supposed to be either an association or a network. – Yes, who will lead the club? Who is the responsible person in this association? Who takes the financial risk? Who gets the cashier's contract? Does the nurse get the cashier's contract and then creates what he's supposed to do to the doctor? Is it the secretary in the background? Is it the social security? Is it the ministry? Who's doing that? Who plans all these things, who brings them to the level? – There is no word about this in this bill filled with great sounding words, ladies and gentlemen! Like some of you, I received a letter from a house doctor from Vienna, who is a district doctor in a population-rich and foreign-rich district, which is also very old – not the house doctor, but the district – 1160 Vienna, the district from which our Vienna mayor comes. I read a paragraph from this letter to you: “Please note that the decision of this law [...] would mean the irrevocable destruction of the proven family doctor system and think of Austria’s population [...]. We do not consider such a decision to be very democratic in pre-election periods." This writes to me a family doctor who works in Vienna for 30 years, along with 15 others. [[Call to the SPÖ: A little optimism, confidence..., my colleague!]] There are a lot of protests, a lot of opinions from other professional groups who say exactly the same thing: That's where the house doctor is demolded, so we can't get on with it. However, I would also like to make some constructive proposals and ask why this has not happened. We doctors and health specialists are not all swimming on the noodle soup, there are a lot of skilled people. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I come to the end or have to come to the end: I'm not sure I'm going to have a seat premium, I'm missing incentives for the family doctor. Why doesn't anyone take the famous money into their hands and say, I'll pay you an ordination in the Zillertal, make a five-year contract with us! That is why I have tabled a referral request, in which I, together with other Members of this House, call for the whole law to be referred back to the Health Committee and re-rolled in detail. I hope that will find sufficient support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10378	Next, Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10399	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may now make a few greetings: I can welcome the works councils of MIBA with their chairman Elfriede Schober at the gallery. [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I can also welcome a delegation from the SPÖ Wolfern at the gallery and, on behalf of colleague Karin Greiner, a delegation from Gratwein-Straßengel in the Graz-Embange district, which is also present at the gallery. [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a doctor, I'm a patient. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What are you missing?]] Listening to this discussion here is exciting from the point of view of a patient. When doctors come to the speaker's desk – like Mr Franz, who only takes contracts with small cash registers that bring great money for him; with the large cash offices where he gets less, he does not make any contracts anyway – and regrets that they have any problems, I look at the whole from the point of view of the patients, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Lugar:... the big money! The little checkouts...!]] If you had an accident just like I did three years ago and then you really have to be in constant treatment with different specialists, need physiotherapy treatments, are constantly with the house doctor because you need laboratory examinations, and, and, then, you know how good it would be for patients if there were such primary care centres already. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Ballage center!]] What does it mean for a patient, Mr. Rosenkranz, when he goes to the house doctor and writes him a transfer to the specialist? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Where do you live?]] - I live in a city. Then you have to call the specialist and you will find out that the ordination times of the specialist are: Monday, Wednesday, Friday morning, Tuesday, Thursday afternoon. One calls him, gets an appointment about 14 days, three weeks, four weeks later, but should actually get the treatment immediately. If you get there a little early and have luck, he examines one, perhaps transfers one to another specialist. Then you look at the ordination times at this one and notice that he's only there in the afternoon – that's really what happened in practice; Ordination times only in the afternoon – then you have to see that you get an appointment with him. Then you have to go to a physiotherapist, even there you have to see that you get dates. Ladies and gentlemen! It is good for a patient to have such primary care centres. It is actually an offer to patients who have everything to have in one place to really be provided in one place. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One can see at this one speech how practical and how important this law is for patients. I think it's a really excellent law for the people who need it, the patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10494	Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief note: The fact that I have switched on the permanent signal indicates that the next vote will require an increased quota, which is because a constitutional provision has been addressed in the amendment tabled by Mr Mückstein. The next speaker was Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10518	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Primary supply law 2017: Austria – a country of reforms; Reforms, which, as proved several times, did not lead to necessary improvements. Now, health care is to be reformed with the primary supply law 2017. The problem of a medical shortage has been known for years. The situation with regard to domestic and agricultural doctors is particularly to be addressed. The establishment of rural medical practices is difficult, not favoured by bureaucratic requirements. A well-functioning health system should be sacrificed to corporate thinking. In the context of a reform, the topography of Austria as well as the age structures must be taken into account. The creation of primary care centres will generally not provide a good service to the agricultural and domestic health care system and health care. [[Call:Please.]] Reformed belongs to bureaucratism, which, among other things, does not allow an established doctor to appoint a doctor. No understanding can be given to the wishes of a technical college, which is of the opinion that domestic doctors should also, in certain cases, devote themselves to social work. A marked social system is certainly better able to do so, it must therefore apply: Schuster, stay with your man! Home doctors are considered flexible, primary supply centres are locally bound, and this is a non-significant problem in terms of accessibility, in particular in rural areas. The financing of primary supply centres is not of minor importance. Who are the operators? Do domestic doctors become service providers? It is about certain profit-oriented corporations such as Vamed and so on. The question is: How do the health insurance companies behave? Health and care are a high-priced system, and the further question is: With this reform, do we create another class of patients, which will not be eligible for funding for a large population? Reforms not at all costs, but for the benefit of the population, especially in health care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10550	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10573	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear visitors! High house! Yes, everything can be misrepresented, and it can all be presented as if nothing was done. Still, it's like this: The primary supply law is to be seen as a building block for strengthening the domestic doctors. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Tell me, do you believe this?]] It is a new additional offer and not a system change. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Read!]] – It’s true anyway. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's not an addition...!]] 94 percent of Austrians value their family doctor for his competent, personal and continuous medical care. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And the buried...!]] When you think: There are 65 million patient contacts, each one goes to his family doctor about eight times a year; and we know that in the next ten years about 50 percent of doctors will reach the retirement age. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, and?]] There is a need for action, that is to be seen. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But with the law...!]] 75 primary supply centres are to be created by 2021, and that is the case. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where do they take the doctors? Why don't they figure out?]] It is always said that there are no more practical doctors to find, that is a big problem in the country, so it is important that small centres can also be created. There are already very, very many... – Yes, that doesn't change anything. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But without doctors, it doesn't use anything!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That doesn't change anything – right! If you don't train...!]] It is necessary for doctors to be given the opportunity to find premises in which they can work together so that medical care is guaranteed. [[New call for tender Belakovich-Jenewein]] It is nevertheless necessary that something be done. There are many committed mayors who now see and do something, are diligent and committed and ensure that doctors find opportunities to work together in a house so that medical care is guaranteed. This is also a contribution to the increasing rural flight. It's quite simple, I experience it as mayor in the country itself that the situation is different. Doctors are difficult to find anyway, but one must give them the opportunity to implement it more easily that they can have their ordinations together in a house and take care of them there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes if they don't exist!]] Further measures will certainly be needed in the future, which is quite clear, it will also be essential to continue working on them; but also at this point a great deal of thanks to our doctors who are always doing great things, and also to our mayors who are working hard to change something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10746	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10768	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The PHCs are being discussed in public and in Austria. In Germany, 75 such primary supply centres are to come. These care centres, Mrs Fichtinger, my predecessor, are not at all the right steps and the right way to ensure a good supply of patients – and not at all for rural areas. The relationship between the doctor and the patient is based on trust; the family doctor, which is also a trusted person. These primary care centres risk the system of agricultural doctors massively. A continuous care of the patient by the family doctor is no longer possible in such a centre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] This facility is a major deterioration for patients. This is the case, Mr President, if you are trying to do the same. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... is that illogical!]] It is a massive run-down, a deterioration in our health system, and I strongly reject it. There is to be opened on the back of the patients of the large industry as operators of such facilities, and that is simply not the right way. This is a bad development, and the patient pays the bill. I strongly reject such an institution in this form. One thing is strange, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Franz has also mentioned this: The health insurance institution may appoint doctors, the doctor may not do so. Somebody's supposed to explain this to me. I believe that it would be important, necessary and correct to provide incentives for the domestic doctors, which is already being operated by the mayors in various communities. That would be the right way, and not such supply centres! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10816	Mr Oellinger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10838	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr President, even if it is late, I should like to congratulate you on your birthday and on this occasion also say that I am really pleased that you are President, because you are doing this task very well. [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP]] Thank you for this presidency! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I hope that will be my bonus now from the speaking time. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Call the FPÖ:... from the Greens!]] [[Abg. Kogler: We told him well!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Green praise is now taken into account in the list setting at the ÖVP!]] What surprises me, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that speakers are going out here and saying: The primary supply centres are very poor. I am a customer, a patient – or whatever you want to call it – one of the two primary care centres that exist in Austria, and I also know from many others who are also customers of this primary care centre in Vienna, that it is considered to be an absolute relief, that there is a progress, that there is this primary care center in which one is treated beyond the usual opening hours of medical practice. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Party friend!]] [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You can also visit your trusted doctor in a primary care centre. Yes, this is also possible in a primary supply center. You need to be better informed, ladies and gentlemen, because it is only the gentlemen who have spoken about this issue, what is really the problem. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Oellinger, has colleague Belakovich now become male?! For some it will really be time...!]] [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] We have two primary supply centres in Austria. They're running like the bell, like lubrication. And just because you don't want to guarantee the appointment of doctors by doctors or doctors, these two primary care centres are most seriously at risk. Every man and woman knows that the representation arrangements that exist do not conform to the law if they are employed or employed in a primary care centre. With what you decide today – apart from the fact that non-medical professions are actually scandalous, we are quite honest! – risk the two only and functioning primary supply centres in Austria. Mr Rasinger is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e10953	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. With regard to the draft law in 1714, there is a referral request from Members Dr. Franz, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft Health Reform Act 2017 in 1714 to refer the Supplements to the Health Committee. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – That is rejected. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Health Reform Implementation Act 2017 in 1714 of the Supplements. Mr Mückstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr. Mückstein, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment mentioned and on the request for separate vote, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Since the amendment or amendment referred to above contains a constitutional provision, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Mückstein, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(2). Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1, Section 8, as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Mückstein, colleagues, have tabled an additional request for the addition of a new paragraph 5 to Article 1(9). If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. This additional request was not accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on photo as proof of identity on the e-card. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the abolition of self-regulation for care homes by means of a principle provision in the ASVG and all other basic social rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Mückstein, ladies and gentlemen, concerning uniform nationally uniform minimum salary and the specification of the benefits of non-medical health professionals in primary care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weigerstorfer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Photo for e-cards'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Rosary, ladies and gentlemen on voluntary hepatitis vaccination for members of the voluntary fire brigade including cost acquisition by AUVA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request was also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1715 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[13:08:16]] 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2240/A by Mrs Erwin Spindelberger, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Drugs Act (SMG-Novelle 2017) (1716 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1581/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Members and colleagues, on the maintenance of the limit value for mercury in tuna (1717, e.g.) 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2221/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues, on the re-introduction of TBC investigations on human resources in the food sector (Bazillenscheidergesetz) (1718 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the 1993/A(E) motion for a resolution by Dr Marcus Franz, colleagues on the definition of the concept of embryos in Austria in accordance with the opinion of the ECJ (1719b) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2100/A(E) by Mr Dr. Marcus Franz, colleagues on "Annual compulsory resuscitation training and training at all schools from the 7th century onwards. School level’ (1720 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11235	We now come to points 6 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The addiction law novelle is actually long overdue. We know that there has been abuse, especially in the area of substitute products that have been sold over and over again. We think it is positive that there should be stricter controls and stricter controls. We hope that the novelle will go far enough, we will not let go. In any case, we believe it to be the right step and will give this initiative our approval. But I would like to say something about it, since it may have gone down a little bit now: We have been discussing a relatively short period of time about a new law to come in the health field, namely this PHC law. And after so short a time, SPÖ and ÖVP are making themselves and decide, so to speak, the funeral of the family doctor. Nobody, too. You are not, Mrs Minister, although you today, unlike all of us, have had a very long speaking time, you have been able to answer us and, above all, the people outside. You have not answered any questions in your comments: How will it be with the house visits? How many doctors are in training at all? How do you want to take the doctors for your PHCs? – Mrs Minister, you have not answered all of this, as there has been no answers to these problems. Nevertheless, you make yourself up and praise a law, and the representatives of the government parties agree with it. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't do that! You can't break the health care! We are now facing a real supply emergency, and you are not willing to take the criticisms seriously. Mrs Mückstein, I would also like to say a word to you because you say that the law is a doctor-burdened: The doctors don't want this law, so it can't be medically stressful. - Just so much for it. Mrs Minister, I would have expected you to address at least the real issues in this law in your 20 minutes of speech, that you will at least answer the questions and address the uncertainties that you will also say, as with the payment to the domestic doctors, with the red tape reduction of the house doctors. You didn't say all that, you told anything. A word about Mr. Keck, who said that the doctors do not want a large amount of cash: Mr. Keck, you have no idea! The doctors don't get the contracts from the so-called big cash registers as easy as you imagine. The ordination times are also regulated in consultation with the cash registers. Obviously you have no idea of matter at all – that is a shame! – and stand here and agree to a law that breaks the whole system.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11310	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11332	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Health Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, you have referred to the previous item on the agenda. I know that one can be of different opinion and may in principle frighten change and be associated with a certain degree of uncertainty, but you have said that these changes are breaking the whole system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not me!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes!]] Mr. Keck has done a wonderful job. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Wonderful? He's been talking stupid, sorry!]] I believe, both for doctors and, above all, for patients and also for those working in the care sector, that: If we really want all people in Austria to have the best health care, then we cannot say that everything has to stay the way it has been for decades. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No one said!]] Do nothing and don't change anything, that can't be a solution at all! And if you say there's some uncertainty, then it's also your job to say: Then we'll make it better together! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Better, yes!]] Let us try to further develop common systems that exist all over the world! You can't say we're staying with what's been going on and going on in Austria for decades, knowing what's not working, and then you say: That's all very wonderful! I really want to ask, even if the debate has already been concluded, that we do not try to startle uncertainty and frighten people now, but we are really fighting for good health care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to take a very brief look at the drug law: It was said earlier that drug addiction was a personal failure, today we know that this is a disease like any other. For every disease and especially for drug dependent people, it is important that one proceeds according to the most modern and scientifically sound professional standards. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] We have done this in Austria in two areas, which is very important. One is that in working groups – doctors and doctors together with people who come from the field of psychosocial care, and with experts from the Ministry of Health – we have designed a treatment guideline that concerns the substitution of opioids – heroin is the most famous drug in this field. It is very important – and this is what we decide today – that information transfer for this drug replacement therapy will be improved. In other words, if a replacement patient goes to the pharmacy, requires several recipes or does not swallow the substitute, this information may also be passed on to the treating physician or doctor or to the health care authorities. We have also closed the legal grey area just for the treating doctors and said that medical treatment can by no means be included in the criminal provisions of the Addiction Law. I believe that this is a very important step – the colleague has already mentioned it, we have discussed it very intensively in committee – in order to help these people. I can really ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11454	Mrs Mückstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11475	Mr President! In short also to the Addictions Act: We also believe that it is a modernisation and an improvement that is important and that the patients are dealt with differently and more openly. Of this very restrictive access, one has, I think, but something got lost, the treatment will not be stopped immediately if the first time a therapy failure or something that disturbs the therapy is seen, but one will try to keep those affected in the treatment. I think this is very important, also, that the treatment guidelines have been re-established. I believe that this is an important point that will ensure quality treatment. I'm a little skeptical about data transfer. This is perhaps a critical point, which may need to be looked at in the longer term, since it concerns a large group of people who will then have access to this data. Another point that I find interesting and perhaps to which one should respond, since this is already a bit of a taste for the upcoming election campaign, concerns the TBC investigation for food personnel. In itself, there is nothing to say about such projects if one considers it serious and rational. You can consider whether such a thing is necessary if there is actually a need or increased risk of infection. This is not the case, however, but the late Minister of Health, Oberhauser, has also performed several times and has repeatedly performed it. That is not the case, as has been said, and it is not due to refugees. I find it very difficult when such applications are racistally motivated. I think that should not be done to those people who might be concerned. I think that is also a political access that is not legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11505	Mr Rasinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11527	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We're talking about the drug law today. I do not want to spread about the content so much, it is known, but I would like to talk a little bit about the addiction strategy in Austria. There are different sighs in Austria; yesterday I heard that the latest addiction is the Internet search. In Germany alone, 600,000 people – half of them children, i.e. young people – are addictive, with serious effects on school et cetera. We speak in Austria in the narrow sense of 370,000 alcohol addicts, nicotine addicts – this is also a addiction – are about 30 percent of the Austrians. But let's talk about the not so legal sighs: Heroin: 16,000 people affected. In front of you is one of those 150 doctors who make substitution in Vienna. Already under city councillor Rieder, we have jointly made a drug concept in the Vienna municipal council, and I believe it has always had the right pillars. We wanted to change a big scene and there were the following pillars: Treatment, substitution, but also education – prevention – and repression. It is naïve to believe that everything in life is nice and beautiful, because you only need to go to Karlsplatz – actually the Karlsplatz problem is solved de facto. We always wanted to prevent a big scene in Austria. At that time, for example, there were huge problems in Zurich – Platzspitz. I can say today I look at over 25 years in therapy, with patients. Actually, you have to say that almost every addict is somehow also mentally accompanied - depressed, borderline, anxiety disorder. One does not become addicted from bright heaven, as many believe it affects the vast number of cases of severe illness. I think the American way – only repression – has led to enormous profits from cartels in Mexico, and there have been 200 000 murders there alone, I believe, over the last 15 years. That's an incredible number. If you look at what is happening a kilometer behind the White House and in the poor areas of the big cities of America, you can see that the War on Drugs has failed. I believe that the European path, but especially the Austrian road, is a very, very good one. In my opinion, in Austria, we have one of the best substitution programs in the world. In Vienna we have about 60 percent in substitution, and I can tell you it's a success if people don't infected with hepatitis C, it's a success if people don't infected with HIV, it's a success when fewer people check drugs, and it's a success if we can treat one or another well. Circa a third comes completely away from the drug and most are stabilised. Nevertheless, we have about 10 to 15 percent problem cases, but I think that's exactly what it is: This should not prevent us from trying to have as few people as possible on the street, in the retail environment, even though sometimes this is very difficult for the doctor. But what would be the alternative? – The alternative would be that we would have situations exodusing at the subway stations. That would certainly not be in the inventor's mind. In this sense, the Addictions Act is an important piece of a very, very human, but also successful demonstration strategy that Austria is driving there.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11575	Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Rendi-Wagner, spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11596	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am really pleased that we are discussing today in the House the novelle on the addiction law and that it is to be decided. I am particularly pleased because it is part of an overall package that will significantly improve the treatment of people with disabilities in Austria. We have heard from previous speakers that the standard in Austria is already very high. We are taking a further step towards an improvement. This whole package, this new law, has also gone ahead with intensive preparatory work by experts – these are competent doctors, as well as psychosocial experts, as well as criminal law experts who have been involved. At this point I would like to thank this wide range of experts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also thank our Federal Drogen Co-ordinator Dr. Johanna Schopper, who has accompanied and driven this novell in my house. Johanna Schopper, that was a very, very important contribution you made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Part of this overall package is a new treatment guideline that is based on international standards and has been co-developed by all the national, Austrian specialist companies working in this field. This treatment guide is now the guide for all doctors working in the substitution treatment, and therefore also an important support for the colleagueship. It applies and must always be the goal of any political and social effort, but also the therapeutic approaches to enable people who are seeking illness to become part of our society again. This is the main objective that we must pursue with the substitution treatment and all other therapeutic approaches. Punishment does not succeed, nor does it succeed if we refuse treatment in non-cooperation. No, it only succeeds if we make sure that a treatment guideline is followed that is the latest in science. That is exactly what we have achieved with the current novel and with the treatment guidelines. This amendment of the Drugs Act is also important because it improves networking, cooperation and communication between the various bodies in the chain of substitution treatment. This also benefits the treatmenter himself and, of course, the system. Ladies and gentlemen! With this package, we are improving the situation of thousands of people in Austria who are currently in substitution treatment. It is not a question of guilt that Erwin Rasinger has just found very well. I am therefore very pleased that this initiative has already been adopted unanimously in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11657	Next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11678	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! You all probably already know that I am a great friend of prevention, of the precautionary principle, because I think prevention is much cheaper and much more effective than repair. We also know that money is missing in the health system at all corners and ends and will continue to be missing, so I would like to refer to the two requests aimed at prevention. One application concerns mercury limit values. Why did he come into existence? – Simple: The EU responds to the recognition of increased mercury levels in tuna and instead of asking where they came from and how they can be dismantled, they say: Well, let's keep up these values, because that means you can keep selling the fish, but there's more mercury inside. This is a double morale for me, with which I can be incredibly difficult to deal with, because we all know about the subject matter of mercury, we know that this is a highly effective poison. We all agreed, we all agreed and beat each other on our shoulders, when the Minamata Convention was on the agenda, we debated it and decided on it. We all agreed that we should act there. That is, while the fever thermometer was banned with mercury, we are not quite as restrictive in the fish. It's a double moral that I can hardly deal with. I think that, above all, the economic background is put in the foreground, namely human health, and that is why I try to focus on the precautionary principle here again and again, even in view of the fact that there are very, very many mercury sources that may not be debated so much: the Maissirup or, for example, the glucose fructose syrup. In autumn, the sugar quota system will fall and the EU market will probably be flooded with it. This is the type of sugar that causes particularly harmful reactions, health problems, such as obesity – you really get sick – or youth diabetes. This Maissirup contains mercury. There is also the sum of the cocktail to be considered, i.e. the sum of the cocktail we take with the food – whether with the fish or with this maissirup or with the fructose, which is in fruit drinks that are inside in sweets et cetera. The sum of this cocktail will be enormously high. With this request, we wanted to counter this and advocate at least at national level – and that is quite possible – to insist on the precautionary principle and to maintain the mercury limit values in tuna. I should like to make another request, which we have dealt with in the Committee on Health, on the subject of tuberculosis. We have asked for an examination because of the increase in TBC cases, especially in the risk group of asylum seekers, who are, after all, primarily concerned with the auxiliary activities involved in food, whether in the kitchen, in the Kindergarten et cetera. We have called for health surveillance, which is analogous to the Bazillenscheidergesetz. I have had to find with great wonder that you see your own racist motivation as a background. I can't understand that, because that's a thing we didn't invent. This criticism is to be passed on to WHO, because we did not find it, but WHO found that the non-native population is part of the high-risk group, and there was an increase in TBC cases by 33.3 percent from 2014 to 2015. So please pass on the criticism to WHO! This is also a question of prevention and transparency. I would like to point out a recent example from Germany: In Kiel, an infectious form of tuberculosis was detected in an asylum seekers. What happened? – He was not only an auxiliary worker in the church, he was also a helper in a kindergarten. The fact is that at least 18 kindergarten children, four educators and 35 other children from the church environment may be infected with caretakers. Our proposal is purely aimed at prevention and nothing else, and, as has been said, we are still happy to discuss this personally, and we are happy to pass on the accusation of a racist background to the WHO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11735	Mr Ing. Vogl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11757	On behalf of the Member of Parliament Marianne Gusenbauer-Jägerdie 4b of the New Middle School Pregarten I am very pleased to welcome you here at the Hohe Haus. [[General condolences.]] The issue of mercury is, of course, something that emotionalizes, so I think you should stick to the facts. We have different limits on fish: once 0.5 milligrams and 1 milligrams per kilogram of fresh fish for predators. There is this difference because predatory fish accumulate through the intake of mercury. This can lead to higher levels of mercury in the meat during their lifetime. This proposal sounds very good at the first moment, but it is so, it totally goes beyond reality. It was never planned to increase the limit for tuna of currently 1 milligrams per kilogram. There has been a discussion about doubling the limit for predators such as swordfish and shark fish. The use of the Minister of Health has also led to the resumption of this discussion at European level in May of this year. So it was never about tuna, that was never a topic. I say this again now to take a little the fears that may arise: Samples of tuna – both of tuna in cans and of fresh meat and frozen goods – are taken again and the values determined are around one third of the limit value. In other words, all samples taken in the food trade show that the values are clearly below what is currently permitted. But, of course, and you have to be honest with this, mercury is a substance that can have harmful effects on the unborn especially in pregnant women, and therefore, of course, caution is needed especially in pregnancy in dealing with food. There you can give only one tip to those who want to be on the safe side if they like to eat fish: The less fat the fish has, the less mercury it will usually have stored. And an important rule is: Home fish have much less mercury. That is, who wants to be on the safe side should prefer to grab domestic fish. But also, as has been said, for other fish, there has been no acute danger because of the current values we have identified.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11812	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11833	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! In advance I can welcome a delegation of the national team of the BuchenlandGermans here in the Hohe Haus. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I am also referring to item 7 on the agenda, which is to maintain the mercury limit in tuna of 1 milligrams per kilogram nationally. Mr Vogl, you said something quite great: Yes, right, one is on the safe side of our domestic fish – all pond farmers who manage the ponds are happy – with our Austrian aquacultures you are really on the safe side. But this does not change the fact that we do not want to miss our fellow countrymen who are on vacation today. However, we must point out that the oceans of the world have come to a level of waste, are poisoned and ultimately a whole series of pollutants – if you imagine this: from the Fieber Thermometer to the seeds, anti-fungal drugs, disinfectants to the entire wastes of the industrial locks and coal mines – at some point in the last episode, they enter the sea. If this multiplies to a hundred times toxic form – eventually smaller fish are eaten by predators, this mercury comes to the existing mercury – then we have a big problem that affects us, of course. The discussion is important. Only that this was discussed in 2015 – the “Kurier” wrote about it, Foodwatch has reported on it – that the EU is discussing raising this limit value at all, of course, has economic reasons. Today, 50 percent of the fish worldwide are not traded at all, and after such a limit value increase, only 14.5 percent of the fish would not be available. You act as if it were so harmless – but it's a huge business, and this business is ultimately about it. My final question, since the red lamp is already shining, is: What happens to the 50 percent contaminated fish? What happens to them? – They return to cultures somewhere in the oceans, and man resumes them in the course of the long food chain. Please think! We have already heard, this is very worrying for pregnant women and also for breast-feeding mothers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11882	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11903	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I change the subject and refer to an opposition request whose rejection of women's political relevance is very relevant. It is 42 years ago that in Austria, then with the votes of Social Democracy, against Black and Blue, the time-limit was decided. This was a family-political milestone, a woman-political milestone, in that the criminalisation of women who commit abortion in the first twelve weeks is not considered relevant by criminal law. It is precisely this decision that will never be reversed or withdrawn, and that is why this motion, which is about the definition of embryos, is not understandable from the point of view of women's policy, nor from a legal point of view, because we have a uniform concept in the European Union, which is an embryo, and we cannot choose a different definition at all national level. Thirdly, It is also to be rejected from a technical point of view, because in 2015 we have novelled the reproductive medicine law insofar as, among other things, we also, under very strict conditions and arrangements, have introduced so-called pre-implantation diagnostics, so that it is possible in the case of artificial fertilization, to investigate the developmentable cells in order to see if there are genetic damage or other damage, in order to give parents or women the opportunity to say that I do not want to use these fertilized cells. Therefore, for three reasons, it is necessary to refuse to set a time from which a human being is referred to as a human being. I would rather, we would discuss when someone is a person, because that is more clearly defined. For me, this is not done by fertilizing an egg cell by a sperm. Women's policy is clear that we have this right to abortion, which is not a woman – not a woman! – make it easy, with previous advice – this is also regulated by law, that does not allow any doctor, any doctor, to take before.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11942	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e11964	Mr President. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm not surprised you're putting ideology and women's policy on science and ethics. This fits with the total furor of the feminists who want to go over everything and everyone that doesn't fit them into the crab. I may quote from § 22 of the General Civil Code: The unborn person is entitled to the protection of the laws from the date of conception. – That’s what it’s literally inside. This ABGB is still valid in Austria today. Of course, we need to briefly define the conception. It is scientifically quite clear, biologically clear: The conception is the fertilization of the egg cells by the male seed. However, in recent years and decades there has been technological “progress” – under quotation marks – so that in laboratories it has been possible to experiment with ova outside the female body – also with fertilized eggs. A legal grey space has been created, which has been extensively exploited by genetic engineering companies and which on the one hand has opened up options for research, and on the other hand has given us massive ethical concerns. Therefore, in 2014, i.e. three years ago, a dispute was brought before the European Court of Justice. An American company, International Stem Cell Corporation, has complained and wanted a clear definition of what an egg is, what a fertilized egg cell is and what an embryo is. The Advocate General at the Court of Justice of the European Union Cruz Villalón has worked through this and has produced an opinion. He concluded that embryo is all that can become a human being. At the end of 2014, a ECJ was also written, and I am surprised, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that you are saying that the application is against EU law. On the contrary! It corresponds to an ECJ proverb, and if we have always behaved so Europeanally, we should stick to the really delicate things in Europe and to what Europe and the judges in Europe tell us. This is not something Mr Villalón simply invented, but it is based on ethical, legal and scientific standards. I do not understand at all that we always do not have a definition under the cover of women's policy, because it should be in the deepest sense of women that they protect their own body fruit, if I may express myself in a pathetic manner, and this life begins with the fertilized egg cell. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is not a cover!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Science tells us that, that's what ethics tells us, that's what morals tell us, that tells us the right, because that's also in § 22 ABGB. I don't know how to ship around these cliffs from a woman's political point of view, and I don't know why you're doing that. Why do you want? You do? – No one wants to question the time limit scheme, but we want to have a clear definition of what life is, and life begins with fertilization: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because we want the right about ourselves!]] Life begins with the fusion of egg yolks and seeds. That's scientifically sound, that's morally sound, that's ethically founded, and we have an ECH spell on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I wonder why we need to discuss this at all. There should be a unanimous yes to this request here in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If we don't, we'll open every random door and gate! Then everyone can come and define the beginning of life in their own way, then every woman can come and say, okay, that's my child, that's not my child, I'm doing with the child what I want, because women's politics is given this and that. Every woman politician can explain to us what life is, of course, then every male politician can also explain what life is, every X-voluntary can therefore come and x-voluntarily define what life is. Is that what we want? Do we want an x-any definition of life in the Austrian Parliament? Please accept the request unanimously. There is no other possibility, otherwise you will lead yourself as ad absurdum as a serious politician. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12045	The next speaker is Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12066	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dr. Marcus Franz, I don't know. You used to shake your head. I have to say quite honestly, now I can only shake my head over your request here in the House. You know it yourself. At the time, you took the retreat from your home party, the Stronach team, found a home port at the ÖVP, unfortunately, God's verbally slipped out, and is now sitting here as a wild parliamentarian. With this request, you have to say quite honestly, you seem to have already retreated spiritually. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But this is a...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Well, one thing's clear: If one does not want to understand that there is an ECJ decision on this issue and it is legally impossible to make a national decision here, I am really sorry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I can only say one thing: ==References== October is the new election date, then your period here is already over, and the Austrians are also protected from such motions for resolutions that ultimately do not bring about anything. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Franz.]] I would like to remind you of a second thing, which has also come from Dr. Marcus Franz: It's about two and a half years ago – I won't forget that! – there was a motion for a resolution to insert into each human body a so-called chip instead of the e-card. Thank God the Austrian population will be in front of you from the 15. We are not dealing with any more such pointless requests here in the House of Lords. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12167	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft SMG-Novelle 2017 together with title and entry in 1716 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1717 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1718 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This request is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1719 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – The request was accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1720 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This request is also accepted by a majority. I accept the motion for a resolution 2100/A(E) to the Committee on Education. [[13:48:14]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Health and Women on the Women's Health Action Plan (III-406/1679 d.a.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1458/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gisela Worm, Dorothea schittenhelm, Carmen Schimanek, Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, Claudia Angela Gamon, MSc (WU), Martina Schenk, colleagues on the development of programmes on women's health (1680 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12313	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12340	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Women and men have different health risks, different lifestyles, show other symptoms in some diseases, and also do not always respond to the same medical treatments. – So far, Mrs Minister, we have also agreed on the Committee. With 17 action objectives and 40 measures in this action plan, women's health is to be improved in terms of health-righteousness for women. – Well, that sounds very nice, but if you look more closely, it would be a lot of fun. We, the FPÖ, voted in the Committee on this Action Plan, but I have already announced that I have my problems with this paper and I also find it very difficult to give him my consent. During the discussion in the Committee, I am sorry that this has also been confirmed for me. On the one hand, the implementation of the measures is not secured due to a lack of financing plan, on the other hand, the timing of this action plan is more than questionable. We have also talked about the fact that the forthcoming national elections will certainly take a line through the bill. This is a pity, because the work of the experts is very good – on the spot I would also like to thank for it. In the case of precise consideration, the Action Plan also contains many no-na arguments, but aspects that are important for women's health are missing completely, according to the motto: What can't be, it's not. . Let me now deal with a few points more precisely. With regard to the chapter on the prevention of violence – assistance and support for women affected by violence, it is very important for me to address one aspect because I – Mrs Minister – asked you if you could not give me an answer in this regard – unfortunately, I have not heard anything about it. The mass immigration has also brought an inconceivable accompanying appearance for us women: Almost every day you read about attacks and attacks on women and young girls. Last weekend alone, over five rapes and assaults on women in the time-consuming But unfortunately, Mrs Minister, I have not seen from you or from other parts of the Federal Government any acts which they have committed, or heard words, in order to truly condemn and say: We don't want that in Austria! What I don't want is that these perpetrators will be re-socialized very soon with all too mild punishments. That's something I don't like, and I think we're all called upon to finally put it in a sharper form in the criminal code. Quickly a sentence on the request of women speakers: I am very pleased that this is now generally accepted, but I also have to say that: Relatively late and free according to the motto: In the evening the lazy will be diligent!, the government has now announced that it will implement a 2015 application. That's a shame, but we're still doing it. Whether it will be implemented is questionable, because the forthcoming National Council elections will also take account of the one line.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12395	Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the proposal for a deadline, which will be sent to the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, will last until 23. On September 2017, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the General Civil Code, withdrew on amendment 498/A of Deputy Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. This does not, of course, give rise to the short debate. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12430	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad! I am pleased that our all-party proposal is on the agenda today. All five women's speakers have worked on this, and we have put this proposal together, which is about improving the health of women in Austria. Thank you very much for our success – and together! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Aslan on the SPÖ.]] What we now have in front of us is an action plan for women's health; very, very many experts have packed all their knowledge here. [[Keeping a specimen in height]] It was mentioned by my previous speaker: 40 measures and 17 objectives of action are enshrined in them. That's good! Even though the concern now arises that the elections are already approaching that of the 15th century. I am confident that a new National Council will be elected October. I think that's knowledge in printed form. This will continue to work, and the new government, the new Parliament, however it may be, will be well advised to pursue and implement this action plan. Many of you will also be here in the house, and it will be up to you to continue this in the next legislative period. The Action Plan on Women's Health: For two years we have been working on it, we have tabled the proposal two years ago, important measures are laid down in this report, and the following questions will be dealt with: What about health and, for example, the education of young girls? How are the young girls and women? How are women in working life? How do they cope with the often double and triple loads? How are the older women doing, how does it look? – All of this is enshrined in this report and finds its place. What measures are there that could be implemented? For example, how does it look with precautions, including breast cancer screening? What does it look like with different vaccinations – which has been the subject today – for example in children, for example among teenage young people and, and, what? These are important issues that we should address and will also address. This action plan, which I am really convinced of, also takes into account what is also an important area, namely that women and men do not work the same way that there are different symptoms. Mrs. Margarethe Hochleitner from Innsbruck University Hospital has already shown this, for example in the heart attack: in the causes of a heart attack and in the symptoms of a heart attack. The new Women's Health Chair at MedUni Vienna is occupied by Mrs. Kautzky-Willer. There are investigations, but of course there must be more when we look at, for example, medicines in men and women and, and, and. - There's a lot to do. Regarding the concern that Mr Schimanek has just referred to – and rightly mentioned in part – regarding the intensification of sexual criminal law, the following must be said: In this respect, various measures in the field of justice are still being implemented today during this plenary debate – not only discussed but also implemented! – and this is also an important development of sexual criminal law. In this sense: It goes a little further, and I'm glad about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12487	On a point of view, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12509	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today we are discussing this important piece of the Women's Health Action Plan – many experts have invested a lot of work. The question is why we need an action plan on women's health, which is the first of its kind in Austria as such? – We need him because women have health risks other than men, they have different health behaviors, and, as has already been said, they have different processes as regards their diseases, i.e. also different symptoms. The heart attack has already been mentioned here as a classic example. These are things that have already been entered into the textbooks of medicine, and the findings in this regard are increasing from day to day. We know that women live longer, they have a higher absolute life expectancy than men, but at the same time we also know that they spend less years in health than men, and that is a clear disadvantage. This is a Public health injustice between men and women, and this is why an action plan for women's health needs to be implemented. Women are also different with regard to the socio-economic health determinants factor. What does that mean? – They are more often threatened with poverty, they are more vulnerable to poverty. All these things have an impact on the health of the women concerned and determine very strongly how their health opportunities are. The health of women is also influenced, in particular, by social role expectations, by the conditions at work and also their career opportunities, their perspectives – all of which are important factors – and their income opportunities in the labour market. This also affects the health, especially the psychosocial health of women. Since we have this wide range of factors affecting health, it also needs a very wide range of solutions, and therefore there are 40 different measures which have been set out and developed in this Action Plan, by the various political sectors, with different partners from organisations and NGOs, and which will be implemented in the future in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the Women's Health Action Plan is a milestone in increasing the level of equal opportunities between men and women. In Europe, by the way, we are the only country and the first country to draw up and implement such an action plan for women's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12554	Mrs Mühlberghuber is next speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12575	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 78-page action plan on women's health with its objectives and measures, which refers on the one hand to the different stages of life – girls and young women, women of working age and women of older age – and on the other hand, is very comprehensive. The report is very broad, and it reports very detailed reports that women, for example, should be able to live self-determined and healthy, on working conditions and income opportunities and also on non-violent life. These are the right and important points which have been described in the Action Plan and which you, Mrs Bundesminister, also want to implement. In this report, which you, Mrs Bundesminister, have produced, we lack a very important issue, a very important one, namely the anonymous statistics on abortions. There are no data on abortions in Austria, nor is there any secure evidence of why it comes about. However, facts are urgently needed in order to be able to help specifically. On this important issue, we have for years been submitting applications to the relevant committees. The successful citizens’ initiative “Helping facts!” with over 54 000 signatures and supporters has also been brought into Parliament and dealt with in the Committee. There is no reasonable reason to further block the anonymous collection of the number of abortions. Mrs Bundesminister, the Action Plan provides under Action 27 that “in every federal state there should be a possibility of abortion in all public hospitals”. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly! Then you don't need statistics anymore!]] This is incomprehensible: On the one hand, you want more opportunities for abortions in Austria, and on the other hand a statistics on abortions with no word is mentioned. Finally, I would like to quote Mr. University Professor Dr. Johannes Bonelli – I quote: The abortion is not a cure, neither for women nor even for the displaced child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12631	Mrs Schittenhelm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12653	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the last equal treatment committee, we had the opportunity for the first time to discuss with Mrs Rendi-Wagner also as a woman minister. It was very, very interesting, it was also addressed almost all the current women's policy issues, and an important issue that has already been addressed today and which clearly shows that women's topics are simply a cross-sectional matter, was gender medicine. I remember very well: When I first used the term gender medicine eight years ago, I was laughed at – across all rows. What's that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Today, the action plan is women's health – it has already been said – with 17 objectives of action and 40 measures which are a basis for health and above all for women's health policy in Austria. We are therefore pioneers in the field of gender-specific medicine throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! This action plan will provide a detailed basis for resolving existing deficits – and they exist – in this area in the long term. Women are simply entitled to a gender perspective on therapy and diagnostics and in medical treatment, and this applies to women of all ages. I am very grateful and happy that the experts have included this and especially older women in the Action Plan. This has not yet been done in this form. In order to give an overview of the objectives of the Action Plan, I would like to briefly address just three impact objectives – we know that there are 17 very intensive, well-represented ones. Article 1 shall read as follows: “Promoting gender health and health research”. It is very easy to develop evidence-based guidelines for screening and treating women-specific diseases, and above all to anchor the competence for women's health in the field of education, continuing and continuing training for medical professions. We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that, especially in the breast cancer early detection programme, we urgently need an evaluation that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have also promised, because all women, no matter what age, need unbureaucratic access to this breast cancer screening programme. On the subject of education and training: An Austrian uniform formulation and anchoring of the gender aspect in the curriculum of medical universities would be desirable. This is already available in individual universities, but it needs not only under the title of gender research, but also gender aspects and cross-disciplinary treatment must be planned in every detail of medical education. Article 3 deals with the prevention of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clearly documented that it is rapidly and intensively about further strengthening assistance and support for girls and women affected by violence. We know that the situation has also worsened in the public area with us in Austria. In this respect, further measures must be taken. That is, even if we have really done a lot in the prevention of violence, especially in the area of sexual criminal law, it needs more information and more intensive protection for women and girls. Article 7 reads as follows: “Promoting a positive self-image for a healthy life for girls and young women” – as stated in this report. Yeah, we need that urgently. Especially in young women, a dissatisfied view of the mirror is not rare: How do I look? Am I too thick? What's wrong? – At the time, we have already achieved a lot with the law governing beauty operations, but through the negative influences of advertising and media, the young people, including the boys, are insecured. The feeling of self-esteem is falling, but that also means that mental problems and dangerous diseases such as bulimia or anorexia can occur. There's that, too, I know it from a wide range of areas. With regard to rapid developments in social media and so-called hatred on the network: That is something we should really warn against, and we should really do it intensively in the next legislative period. It's incredible what's happening there. It's already going on in folk school. The children use the media themselves, of course, and we must not underestimate the potential danger to mental and physical health even among children and adolescents. That is, in the kindergartens it takes to raise awareness in schools, how to deal with it, and also to inform the parents who usually do not get it and do not really perceive it. I am very grateful to the experts and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that we had a very detailed and informative discussion and an exchange of views in the Committee. I am deeply convinced that with this report, with this action plan, we are really establishing a basis, not only in the equal treatment committee, but in all areas of politics and society, because women are everywhere and they need our strength and our support everywhere. In this sense, equal opportunities means: Women should be able to live self-determined and healthy. I think that's where we all agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12714	Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12735	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Yeah, why do you need gender medicine? – In medicine, the pathogens, the methods of investigation, also the symptoms and treatments are: Still based on the male standard, because many drugs are still being tested on men. You mentioned this earlier, Mrs Federal Minister, and it is therefore important that we take into account the gender differences, which may also exist, and adapt the diagnosis and treatment. The health approach in the report really gives us a great insight into the health needs of women who are categorised by age and by life. This is, of course, very welcome. Many recommended measures, such as low level of access to contraceptions or mental health care as an in-service activity, meet with green positions. What we are missing in the report is due; it lacks it. Although an annual roadmap is announced on the common focus, there is no control or evaluation regarding implementation. We also lack the timeliness of the vote, i.e. the information on when precisely these measures are put in place or when one intends to implement these measures. Otherwise, we find the report very successful. On behalf of my party, of course I would like to thank all the experts and employees. I am pleased that we are again over-fragmenting about this point for the daughters of Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12775	Mrs Gamon. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that we can talk about this National Action Plan today. It is nice to be a pioneer in Austria – or in this case a pioneer. As Europe's first country, we have managed to implement such an action plan, and we must congratulate the Ministry, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the whole team. It has become a truly good national action plan, and I am also very proud, like my previous speakers, of the fact that we have made a common request because, as women's speakers, we are constantly showing how extra-party work in this Parliament can work very well, if you just want to and are willing to work together for the common whole. Under the Action Plan, there are now 40 measures to improve women's health care. There are objectives of action – so far, so great; but I would like to highlight a few things that I personally do not fit in with the NAP and which I also believe could in principle improve and optimise in the future as far as the approach to such political plans is concerned. The impact objectives are good, but they are partly not very concrete, for example if they are: “Reducing poverty risks for women at all stages of life”, “promoting positive self-image [...]”, “Increasing health-righteousness for [...] disadvantaged women”, and so on. These are things in which I am already asking myself how this really works in the implementation and how it can be made quantifiable in particular, Because I think it is important that we in politics also come to the point that we can really also account for what we achieve, and explain what has been done and whether you have gone further – and this is all the better, the quantifiable goals. For example, in the case of effect target 7 – in “promoting a positive self-image for a healthy life” for girls and young women – action is indicated as follows: ‘Legal measures to support a positive self-image’. - I'm wondering: What's that supposed to be? – I hope we can’t ban mirrors or scales, you shouldn’t do that either, but that’s not what it’s all about. For example, the Federal Law on Beauty Operations, which entered into force in 2013, prohibits 16-year-olds from having beauty surgery performed without medical necessity. This is all very good, but these are either things that lie in the past, or they are other measures such as the prohibition of sexist advertising, in which I very much question whether these really lead to the desired result. That is, we cannot quantify what measures they are and what effects they have, and then things like this effect goal are like an empty floscle, although we are all aware that this is extremely important. And because we cannot prove in the future what we have achieved on our way in the future, it will finally be more difficult to argue the whole thing again. That is why I would like to set clear deadlines for many things, clear targets when things should be achieved, and also a way to achieve such things in their own responsibilities and in their freedom, and that not always immediately a legal rule is cried out if the problem is very clear and in this case too. However, I believe that in the future we will still have enough opportunities to talk to each other as women's speakers about concrete measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12844	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12866	Mr President. Dear ministers! He is now ready, the action plan on women's health, and he is not only intercultural, but also affects many sectors. An effect target defines what you want to achieve with the measures, and then, of course, it is also evaluated in the form of a roadmap. Of course, it cannot be that only a single department such as the Ministry of Women and Health makes very specific proposals, because they are all required, and I would also like to thank the 70 experts who have been involved. It was a completely team-oriented, joint process that took place so that we could define these 17 operational objectives and 40 measures, which, of course, still need to be filled with some more concrete content, which is quite clear. It is very important to ask yourself questions along a woman's life, such as: What do girls and young women need? How are women in working life, what can be improved? What does it mean for older women that social participation may not be the same as for women in younger years? Especially the multitasking life – I may call it that – is one that often burdens women on us several times. We all know: Women and men then live longer, are more successful, then they are happier when they are healthy, and this action plan is intended to help to reflect important areas themselves in each phase of life, sometimes also in the form of awareness-building measures. You don't always need a law or something quite specific, it's about raising awareness, it's about the educational background, it's about the socio-economic background; it's helping us to have health competence, so that with this knowledge, which we can acquire – already in kindergarten and along a women's life – we can also handle well, ask the right questions and apply this knowledge as well. This will have to go beyond this legislative period. I am convinced that no one can leave this cold and that we will be able to continue this women's health action plan well during the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12905	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. Pfurtscheller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12929	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers and visitors! Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you very much for the Women's Health Action Plan. It is very informative, highlights the diverse aspects of women's health and identifies, as my colleagues have already pointed out, effective objectives and measures to improve the situation of women in Austria. Women are different from men. It now belongs to the general knowledge that male sniffs are one of the most dangerous diseases at all, but that because of their physism women need symptoms other than men and also adequate treatment, unfortunately not everywhere is still perceived and taken into account. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Lugar: That's sexistic!]] I have concentrated on two points in this report, on the one hand also on the objective of action 7 – and on that entirely independent of Mr Schittenhelm, but I think that shows that this is a very up-to-date issue that concerns us, namely the necessary positive self-image of young women. In recent months, I have accompanied some events in Tyrol, which have dealt with violence against women, and we have each had a specialist who has told us what is going on in schools about the New Media. It is really quite, quite terrifying, to hear that eleven-, twelve-year-old girls are sometimes already coached by adult men who act as young women, as they can lose weight, under pressure that they should lose weight at a certain time, then show photos, and such things. It's really terrifying when you hear that. This is probably no longer just a matter of awareness-raising measures, which is actually a matter of psychological violence. I think it is very important that we support young women to develop the necessary self-confidence so that they can defend themselves accordingly. Of course, it is also important that they are healthy young women, who can later lead a full and happy life and do not have to work out such terrible experiences. The second objective, which is also very important to me, also goes towards the mental health of women. Unfortunately, according to my experience, there are a lot of girls and women who are constantly getting into extremely stressful situations, most of them completely indebted anyway. These are often difficulties in the family or, for example, overload through multiple loads. Unfortunately, in Austria it is not quite easy to get support, especially in the psychological field. Especially in the country it is often very difficult – long driving times, you get very late dates. That is why it is very important to me that women get support there faster. Women often cannot afford the treatment or not to the necessary extent. We must therefore be concerned about making improvements as soon as possible, even because the children of these women are very often affected. In summary: Thank you very much for the report. Of course, we are very happy to be in the process of implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12972	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e12993	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I also think it is great that there is the women's health report, especially in the form of how it is clustered and constructed: just after life realities, after the age – from young women and girls to women of middle age and older women. I would also like to thank you at this point. I would like to focus on a subject which is always reflected in the report, namely sexual and reproductive rights and health of women. We ourselves – I have mentioned it at this point – have here in the house a super-party parliamentary group, in which we – ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, of the Greens, of the ÖVP and of the NEOS – are very, very active on this question. It is important – that is quite clear, and this is also documented in the report – to provide comprehensive sexual education. In addition, there was the provision of sexual education in the framework of schools, which from my point of view was entirely central. Why? – Because there is also the option of getting colorful and diverse knowledge of your own body and sexuality through professionals, external experts and experts. This is very, very central, an absolute right for girls – of course also for boys. In addition to the provision of sexual education, however, it is of central importance – and that is where my appeal to Minister of Youth Karmasin is addressed – to expand the first love ambulances in the federal states. They are very scarcely present in rural areas. The girls on the ground need this urgently: low access, low-sleep information, without feeling embarrassing, so to speak, because they visit this facility. Also in the report – it has already been mentioned today – has been mentioned as one of the objectives of low-cost, cost-effective or free access to contraception. We haven't done this in Austria yet. There are lan- the one who already has this and who also clearly shows and proves that this reduces the number of unwanted pregnancies. So with sexual education and low-swelling, cost-effective or free access to contraceptions, unwanted pregnancies are reduced. I think we can do this in Austria. Various institutions have been called upon – not only the Minister of Women and the Minister of Health, but above all the federal states and all those involved – to set this up for women. A final point, because it was also mentioned: Abortion of pregnancy in all public hospitals. It is true that women in the federal states do not have access to it in all public hospitals. I know, Mrs. Minister, you are behind that – a thank you for it – but also there is: Let us convince the federal states where we live to finally let this become a reality for us women! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13039	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Greiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13060	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! To sum up, I'm allowed to hold: One of the priorities of this women's health action plan is psychosocial health. We have heard several times that women are much more affected by socio-economic factors than men. Poverty plays an essential role in this. This action plan must therefore aim at the causes of this social inequality, and I am really looking at the fact that women are generally disadvantaged in income. What are the consequences of social inequality? – We heard women get older, but they don’t stay healthy. And especially in advanced years, we have noted a significant increase in mental and physical diseases – chronic diseases, well-known. In the context of psychosocial health, violence is also an essential issue. Every fifth woman will be victims of violence. Prevention against violence is an essential point that must be reflected accordingly in the training programme for doctors and nurses. What measures have already been taken? – Austria has developed a national strategy for mental health, thus taking its own path and setting an example. In the near future, there will also be a mental health action report and a gender health report will be drawn up. And as the first country in Europe – and this can make us really proud – Austria has presented an action plan for women's health. Mrs Minister, even the WHO – you have already mentioned it – has highlighted this fact very positively. We see that many measures are in progress, and Mrs. Minister is very much in favour of their being implemented. One aspect I would like to address: The above points are important for women's policy, but they are, above all, of high relevance to social policy. We, as we are sitting here, the entire government, all, but especially institutions dealing with health, are invited to bring their entire know-how into the debate, so that genuinely multisectoral solutions can be developed to: to improve the health of women and to promote and facilitate equal opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13105	The next speaker was Mr Franz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13127	Mr President. Estimated ministers! High house! I am funny to be the only man who speaks on this subject. But I speak briefly as a doctor to you: I absolutely support the women's health plans. If the gender has a right, then in women's health. This is the area where men and women really differ. A number of studies have been carried out in the last few decades until it came to pass, which were designed exclusively with men, with young, 18 to 20-year-olds, and some of them have obtained other results than those of women today. Therefore, from the point of view of a doctor and from the point of view of a people's representative, it is extremely important to support these plans and aspirations that the health of women is considered different from that of men. There are other biological conditions, another physiology – one has to devote itself to this as a doctor and one has to take this politically into account, so this area of gender is absolutely to be supported from the point of view of a conservative politician, and from the point of view of a doctor only right. One thing I miss: The health of the intestines is not explicitly contained in the action plan on women's health. I think that should still be done, because women suffer from colon cancer as often as men, and you can really do a lot and really prevent a lot of evil. In this sense: Go to the colossal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13160	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. I see no wish for a final word on the part of the report. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of this report III-406 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on item 12 on the resolution relating to the Committee's report 1680 on the extension of programmes on women's health. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 210.) [[14:30:34]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 2254/A by Mr Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann, Brigitte Jank, Dr. Harald Walser, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the Federal Constitutional Law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Law as amended in 1929 as regards education, the Federal Constitutional Law on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Servants, the Inconsistency and Transparency Law, the Administrative Procedure Act and the Administrative Court Law 1985, a Federal Law on the Establishment of Educational Directions in the Countries, the Law on Procurement in 1989, the School Organisation Act, the Federal Law on Federal Schools, the Federal Law on Agricultural and Forestry Law, the compulsory school maintenance law, the School Law 1985, the Minor School Law for Burgenland, the Minor Law for Carinthia, the National Law on the Minorities for Carinthia, the Federal Law BGBl. No. 420/1990, the School Education Act, the School Teaching Law for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses, the Higher Education Act 2005, the Education Law 1985, the Vocational Audit Act, the compulsory school examination law, the School Aid Act 1983, the Private School Law, the Religious Education Act, the Education Documentation Act, the Pupils' Office Act, the BIFIE Law 2008 and the Education Investment Law, and the Federal Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the Law on the the Law on the the Amendment No 592/A(E) by Dr Harald Walser, colleagues, on the abolition of Vice-Presidents of the State School Councils and the Vienna City School Council, on the Amendment 131/A(E) by Mr Dr Harald Walser, Mr Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on the model regions of the Joint School, on the Question No 1356/A by Mr Dr Harald Walser, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the compulsory schooling law in 1985, and on the Amendment 1357/A by Dr. Harald Walser, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the School Organisation Act BGBl. No. 242/1962, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 48/2014, amended (1707 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13275	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mölzer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13303	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why am I moving forward a supposedly very regional concern to my contribution to the debate on the alleged largest educational reform of all time? – Firstly, of course, because I believe that the citizens’ initiative, which has been postponed by the High House for three years now, from Hermagor, which people in Hermagor have deserved, will finally achieve a vote on their concerns here in the House. I am, of course, seeking the approval of the ÖVP – Mr Obernosterer already nods. - That's one. On the other hand, I do so because this concern of setting up an AHS sub-level is not a singular one, but is equally present in several other district cities, in Germanysberg or Hartberg, for example. And of course this has a certain reason: People obviously want a differentiated schooling. They obviously wish that there is not only the preservation of the gymnasium, but also an extension of the gymnasium and the differentiated school system. And there is another particular reason, namely that obviously in Hermagor – the SPÖ in the last teaching committee meant that this was not necessary – a model region of general school is planned; on the back of the children there the overall school utopia is to be tested. What am I holding on to? – It is obvious that, Mrs. Teaching Minister, Minister of Education, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP, of the SPÖ and of the Greens, here you are making policy against the wishes and needs of the population. That's something we don't have. This is one of the main reasons why we will vote against this reform of education. What are we further criticising about this educational reform? – We have discussed this more often here in this House, about last week on Monday, but I still have to hold it: The issue of immigration and integration will be completely resolved. The liberal proposal, the liberal demand for a so-called German duty or the sufficient knowledge of the German language in order to be able to follow the teaching, and the corresponding language classes, where one so to speak brings the German knowledge to the forerman, has not been taken into account. This is, in our view, a major problem. [[Abg. Schimanek: The school teachers would wish that!]] This would be – I was just saying – the practitioners wish everyone, as we know not least from the city of Vienna, where a folk school teacher has recently spoken and held that a third of her children cannot follow the lessons. This would be a very essential measure in order to put great pressure out of the system in this regard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, the question of the school organisation, which is modified by this law. While the creation of the educational directorates may be a small step in the right direction, it will restrict transparency, control will disappear, and there will be more pride for this in the future. This is definitely not the way we want to go. We wanted more transparency and more control. But that doesn't happen. That is another reason to reject the proposal. In the area of so-called school clusters, we still hope that in future a few smaller and micro-schools can be saved. I'm excited if that'll actually happen. However, the fact that, after the negotiations with the Greens, there are still mixed clusters, we think that there is a big problem, especially since, of course, the very clear – Mr Walser, you know that very well – is a preparation for the school as a whole. Moreover, there are probably problems in the area of minority education in the law – we have mentioned this briefly in the teaching committee – because, for example, we do not know exactly what qualifications the cluster leaders should bring with them in the field of multilingual schools and more. We will certainly have some discussions, especially in Carinthia. Another point which is completely unregulated, ladies and gentlemen, is the area of remuneration. There are, of course, some ambiguities about the autonomy, which is absolutely welcome, wherever we have always said that, for example, the publicly criticised question of the maximum number of students, to which we will now make a further request to clarify this. At the very least, ladies and gentlemen, this was now, I believe, a Hauruck action at the last second, where there was no review, where the parties, such as the parent associations or the teachers, were no longer given the opportunity to take positions, especially as regards the thematic area of general school. And we really must say that would have been possible. We would have had enough time to go into October. This has been taken from us. Obviously, we want to do this as quickly as possible. It is, I believe, important to conclude by saying that we hope after the election on 15 May. October other majority relationships will have to be able to repair what you are fabricating here. We are still trying to get rid of the worst things with a few motions for resolutions today. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is also addressed to the people in front of the screens that are following this debate today, it is to you that: Don't choose black, don't choose red, because only with the FPÖ there will be a change here! Otherwise, just as the ÖVP is already, you will wake up with headaches when it comes to the same thing going on again. We liberals don't want that. There won't be any of that with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13370	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13484	The next honourable Member is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13505	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After this election speech, I return to education policy. Austria's students have earned the best education system, and I am therefore pleased that a large majority of them are in favour of this Education Reform Act. It means education reform law, but often it means a revolution in thinking. We leave the culture of regulation and turn to a culture of autonomous responsibility for design and results. Teachers and local leaders will be given more design strength and more decision-making opportunities because they know their pupils and know exactly what is needed and what is needed. It was about this design for decades, it was called for for for for decades – and now we do, and without anyone taking anything away. The existing keys to resource allocation continue to apply. In other words, the 50-minute unit and also the class student maximum of 25 remain a calculation size for the resource allocation. In addition, this is improved by means of language promotion, full-day school forms and so on. That's all right. But how these resources are used will be decided more strongly in the future, or at all in the location, or through cooperation of the sites. For the first time – which is also a very important point – a chance index has been anchored. This means that criteria such as the socio-economic background or the language used in everyday life will also play a very special role in the future. The resources – even this is a novum – are legally secured for the first time. That is why all attempts must be rejected as loss fears startle. Nobody's being taken away. On the contrary: Where the resources are used, more resources are being channeled. In addition, when it comes to the SPÖ, even 5,000 teachers will get more into the system because they are urgently needed. The educational reform package is not a savings package, but it is an efficiency-enhancing package when it comes to administration, because clustering can help additional support staff to relieve teachers and teachers, managers of their administrative work and concentrate on their core task, teaching, or just leading, the educational management. In addition, we achieve further administrative simplifications and, of course, simplifications for local teachers by bringing together state and federal administration in an educational direction. So wear it. You're taking this educational package with you! It is a big step in the development of our education system. Thank you to all those who have contributed to this, Minister Hammerschmid, Minister Mahrer with team and, of course, the Green Group and the government groups. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13550	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Dr. Strolz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13572	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear parents, students, students, teachers who are watching today, all the citizens of the country who are interested in education! We are holding today the debate on this school reform package, especially on reform in the field of school administration. It was a long process – Mrs Minister, you have taken over an ongoing process. This project has been on the road for about three years, and there is a lot of light and some shade in what is now on the table. We've discussed a lot. The headings are the right ones from NEOS' point of view. School autonomy, of course, is a very important issue for us. We say: Let us strengthen the freedom, the responsibility of experts on the ground! The educators have taught the job, who have studied for years and know what is good for the children, for the young. They should have on-site design space. And let's also give the school directors more design space! – Something is happening now, yes! It is also important for us, and there is the cracking point, Mrs. Minister, that, of course, if we want to strengthen the creative, the committed, the quality-oriented forces in the system – and there is an increase – we need to give a clear signal: Attention, it is no longer the party book of the scale of all things in the Austrian school system! Harald Walser nodds. This is also important for the Greens. I even have a poster of the Greens with you that this man dictates the formation of your children? – Mr Pröll is pictured here, that is true. [[keeping an image of a poster of the Greens entitled “Do you want to entrust this man with the education of your children?” to the height on which former head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll is pictured in front of a schoolboard]] [[Abg. That's from yesterday!]] [[New call of the abg. Shit helmet.]] Of course, I also have an extra craft set for the special attention, so that this is up-to-date. [[The speaker sticks on the panel shown before over the pictured face of Dr. Erwin Pröll with a picture of the face of the head of state Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner.]] [[Rejoicing with some Members.]] Here comes Mrs. Mikl-Leiter; basking for advanced people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Shit helmet: That he doesn't generate himself!]] To the serious background: Whatever country captain comes or goes, the problem is that it remains the same approach. [[New call of the abg. Shit helmet.]] In the view of the Austrian People's Party – whether new, old, purple, turquoise, black or otherwise – it is so that education policy is primarily power policy. [[Abg. Where do you live?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] If You remember: What can we do with the 120,000 teachers, we can equip them in such a way that they take better care of the children and young people? There's your first thought: How can we handle them and organize them in such a way that they then decide for us at the constituency? [[New call of the abg. Shit helmet.]] That is why the teachers are, of course, seen as a political prelude, especially by the People's Party, and that is why you are not ready. I gave the People's Party street: Now the new head of the ÖVP can prove that he does not have a foothold on the heads of state, because he does not allow the national leaders to become the head of this new education management. This is a very gross trick mistake in this new law. [[New call of the abg. Shit helmet.]] If you wanted to prove it to you is about children and young people and not about your power policy, then you would change it. That is why I would like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that the head of state should not stand in the class because he is there with the party book and not with the schoolbook. He makes power policy, not education policy. It also means that the head of state should not be able to determine the head of education as you now see it in this new law. If you are willing to make these changes, we are willing to abandon all the other pain points we have. We have always shown a basic constructive attitude, Mrs. Minister. We have put all the other things back here, but no one can demand that we cement education policy as a party policy of power. We're not going to carry that kind of thing. Maybe that's just a little jump over your shadow. If you don't dare this jump over your shadow, then throw a very large shadow on the future of young people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13722	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13807	Mrs Jank has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13829	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Strolz, it is clear that this package is so material and content that you can't add anything in content and have to focus on showing power policy that is not given. National leaders are democratically elected persons and non-evil people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll:... not necessary!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the current educational reform, which we are going to adopt today, is on the one hand an organisational package, because we are introducing a completely new government structure with the education management; precisely because the federal government and the country are active in the school sector, it is also a common authority. On the other hand, the package also means strengthening autonomy at school locations and it brings more transparency to the school administration. I'm now trying to present a few things on the subject and I'm starting with the field of school administration: With the abolition of the national school councils and the introduction of the education management as a new federal government, we ensure a common governance, which is necessary and important. At the head of the Authority, the education director has a clear profile of this position, so it is a clear technical quality that is required and there is a clear allocation of tasks. All teachers of the federal and regional schools will be billed together through the Bundesrechenzentrum, and therefore there will be transparency for the first time, for which, like where teachers are used. This too is ultimately necessary and important for a control. The special schools are of course preserved. However, the identification of special educational funding needs is established in the education department, so that pupils are also assured that they do not receive school systems, but that they are actually decided objectively. A fourth point pictured in the law – he was also mentioned earlier – is the preservation of small schools. We want to preserve not only these schools, but also quality of life for families, especially in rural regions. In a final point on the government structure, one word on the model regions: The scheme is a package of possibilities. The gymnasium will not be abolished and will not be abolished with us in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Model regions can only arise if parents and teachers at the site agree to a model region with a clearly regulated majority system – and there we have installed several criteria. So where this is then implemented, where it is actively wanted, there will be such a possibility. However, an essential part of the educational reform is the strengthening of the own responsibility of teachers within the scope of the so-called autonomy package. What's in this package? – It is about opening and division numbers. These will no longer be provided by the Ministry by regulation, but the responsibility will be transferred to schools. The headmaster has the greatest experience in this subject. He has the know-how, he knows how to make such decisions, and he will, of course, do so in agreement with the teachers, as any manager does with his employees otherwise. The autonomy package also deals with the much debated and today already addressed class student maximum. In future, the headmaster will determine the number of school students, taking into account the requirements of education and safety, the needs of students, the opportunities for funding, the possible burden on teachers and so on. In doing so, he must seek agreement with the school partners, speak to the teachers, parents and students. If this is not the case, it is foreseen that the education management will decide together with the teachers. The average number of school students of 25 may not continue to be exceeded per country. It is also ensured that nothing changes in the allocation of resources – that was the subject of my colleague today. And the autonomy package brings more flexibility: We open the 50-minute hour. We enable cooperation not only in the same subjects, but also far beyond and expect a lively new school structure. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I try to give a brief summary of the school partners and their rights, because there is also the concern of the parents: A parent representative and a student representative will be involved in the selection of the headmaster in the Commission. The school partners are anchored in the Advisory Board of the new Education Directorate. The results of the Education Controlling must be presented to the School Forum and the School Community Committee, which is advisory, and some more. What does all of this bring together? – For the students, this means that the teaching is designed more exciting, project-related and individual. For parents, the change in day-to-day care and pre-school care means a better compatibility of family and work. In future, teachers will be able to make their teaching more flexible, tailored to the needs of the students and to design it with less bureaucratic effort because many school attempts will be removed. To conclude: School leaders are given the opportunity to develop their school location in a pedagogical manner, to address regional needs – which they know better than the ministry – and thus to create a comprehensive, attractive educational offer. I wish the teachers as well as students for the upcoming holidays all the best, a lot of relaxation and a good new school year, also with a new school administration and a new school organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13879	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e13911	We have an interesting reform on the agenda today, and if you look at the reform more closely, you can of course also discover good, no question. Firstly, there is finally the opportunity to see where the money actually flows. The money flows in the direction of the countries in which teachers are employed, where the Federation does not even know what they are doing. There is now this transparency, and a course of course will finally be implemented. That's a good thing, not a question. Or the autonomy concerning: A very small autonomy has been granted, and that is certainly welcome. But if you look at the whole convolut and look at the huge problem in education that we have, with a quarter of students leaving school after nine years – a school with the highest cost in the European Union – without reading and writing, you can see that it is just too little, what happens. We are also not satisfied with the fact that this reform, which is only a very small reform, is only taking place in ten years. That would be about as if one were dissatisfied with the house administration, because the whole house is totally desolate from the basement to the roof, from the electrical pipes to the water installation, and the house administration decided after many, many years to exchange the tension carpets. - That's exactly what you're doing. Of course, it's good to have new carpets, but it's too little. It is therefore too little – and you yourself have already told us that you do not want to do much –: I asked you about a year ago when you were quite fresh and motivated, as you are dealing with the 25 percent who cannot read and write after compulsory school and what your big goal is in ten years, what you want to achieve as a minister. You said then that you want to reduce this number in ten years to 15 percent that only 15 percent come from school that can't read and write. That's the problem we're facing. What you're doing here is dodging the structure. You doctors around where nothing improves in the final effect. You have said in the Committee that you hope that everything will get better at the site now, because a certain autonomy is granted – but hope is too little. You must also give those who actually stand in front of the class the opportunity, but you do not. You have explicitly said so. You said: No, there's no more money, you have to come out with the money, but now you have the freedom! – As if you were taking the Maurerkele away from a mason on the construction site and saying: You have the freedom now, but you don't get any tools in your hands. – This is the problem we are facing. And that's why: There's nothing going to improve, just because you're turning around a little bit on the organizational screw. What we need to do is look at the right in class. We have to start where we know that these are the problems, and there we are among the 5 000 problem teachers, who always lead the union in their mouths. The union itself says that we have 5,000 problem teachers in our system. That is, these 5,000 teachers stand in front of the class and have lost nothing there. – This is the problem we need to talk about. There has been a survey among teachers, and they have said that the main problem is discipline in the classes. Even there is no way to do something. Or also the high demand for language courses: We know that if a class consists of three quarters of children, who simply can't say a word German, that this will have to worsen the quality of learning, it won't be different, but it'll look away, and that's the problem. The problem has structure. So for all those who don't know how this works in Parliament: It comes an idea, no matter how meaningful it is, no matter who it comes from, it comes from a government party. In that case, the SPÖ said a few years ago: We need a reform. What does the ÖVP say? - No, I don't. Why? – Because the countries do not want this because the union does not want it. And that's what we're going to experience for years, when we've been reforming education for decades. Then there will be negotiations between these two until practically nothing remains, until this reform, out of this intention, out of the good idea, becomes nothing but a placebo that you throw and say: Now we have a few more years of rest, because our reform has to work. Now we wait ten years, then we look, and then we can still improve a little. - That's how it works. As far as education is concerned, the main problem is the EIA, because the EIA is blocking, and this is what it is doing not only in education but also in many other areas. And when I look at the Basti Fantasti, the Sebastian Kurz, who is praised by all so high and as the great Messiah who is now finally putting everything in place, then I think we are once making the test on the example. The Basti Fantasti said: We want to close the Islamic kindergartens! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And now I'm going to make a request where that's exactly what it contains. However, we do not want to close the Islamic kindergartens immediately, because this is probably also the ÖVP too wild, so we have said that we need quality criteria according to which we treat all Islamic kindergartens as those who are not Islamic. That would de facto be forbidden in all Islamic kindergartens in which what we do not want to do, namely primarily Qur'an taught and spoken Arabic, to do so. And if we introduce these quality criteria, we can do so with a blow – without being Islam-enemy. I think you're right. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's what the Basti Fantastici has seen, and the... – It's your Messiah, what am I supposed to say?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sebastian Kurz is your Messiah – or did I misunderstand something? – who will make everything better. So it's going to be You are in favour of this proposal today, because you will not vote against it all seriously, if Sebastian Kurz says so, we want to do so. [[Keeping a document in height]] Now you have the opportunity to vote on it here in the House, because you will not vote against your party chairman! Or are you gonna do that? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Is that what you want? Do you want to vote against your party officer? [[Abg. Eßl: Of course we want...!]] Don't you want to! So. I am now submitting our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A matter of course! – It’s not about closing, it’s not about what Sebastian said in short: This is what we are doing, but it is about implementing a course of course, namely that Islamic kindergartens should be subject to the same quality criteria as Austrian kindergartens – from me even for the Catholic and what else there is. So, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, do you agree? Will you agree today? - No, you won't agree. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eßl and Mr Rädler.]] And do you know why you won't do that? – Because Sebastian Kurz always announces and promises to be elected only to become chancellors. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the FPÖ]] And then, after the election, we have again exactly the same pedestal that we have been experiencing for years and decades now, namely that we are blocking ourselves from the opposite side and in reality we are trying only to stay in power – but then with other omens! Then you have the chancellor and the others the vice chancellor, and then we experience the same game again, and then that turns around again, and everything stays with the old. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] That is why we are making this sample of nails today, and I am already excited whether you agree to this request, because if you do not agree with it, then you have provided the proof that Sebastian Kurz does not want to do what he announces, but only wants to be elected. In the matter itself, he doesn't want to do anything. And that's the problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14035	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14131	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14152	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciated spectators here on the gallery and in front of the televisions! High house! Today we have a very interesting day: He started a South Tyrol debate. It was the representatives of South Tyrol there, the head of state, state councils, high political officials and so on. [[Abg. New builder: He wasn't there!]] And do you know what the South Tyroleans are especially proud of? – It’s their education system, it’s their school system, it’s their common school that has been in South Tyrol since 1962, and it’s that common school that meets the children and has the best results! [[Abg. Peter Worm: No!]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: No!]] This is the point on which the South Tyroleans are very proud! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Grossmann.]] And we were, Mrs Minister, esteemed educational speakers of the other parties, in South Tyrol, we looked at it there. We Greens, by the way, were several times with delegations in South Tyrol to study the system there. We talked to the political leaders, we talked to the people responsible for the school administration, we talked to children and their parents. And you think a person would have said: Ui, we want to go back to the old Austrian system!Unknown term type: "%s".? They smiled when we asked. You said: No, so that's really not what you can call Austria's export hit! We are very, very happy, and we are especially very, very proud of our education system, and we are very proud that many delegations from abroad come to South Tyrol to study it! We have taken this to heart, and in this reform there is a lot in it – a lot is still missing, but a lot is in it – which points towards the school system in South Tyrol. Now let me take a little note of the arguments that have come from those parties who do not agree with this reform today. We, Matthias Strolz, have composed at the beginning of the legislative period, we have talked together about what we must do, how we can cooperate; I very much appreciate that. I also appreciate the initiatives by NEOS over the last four years, most of us – not always – have been of one opinion. What we have heard today has a little astonished me, because finally one can reduce it to one sentence. [[Abg. Strolz holds a table in the height, above the pictured face of former head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll a picture of the face of the head of state Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is glued. This is what the sentence says: Do you want to entrust this man with the formation of their children?]] That's right! You said if we agreed to your amendment, you would agree to the whole package of laws, because there is a lot of positive in it. You've recognized: It's going in the right direction! And you've recognized: The motions are right! I think that is positive, that we Greens have largely negotiated this law. I thank you for getting us recognition here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then we get from NEOS an amendment aimed at reducing the power of the national leaders. And this request states that the educational directors – that is, the central people in the respective federal states – are appointed. I read it literally: “The competent Federal Minister” – one could be generous, at the moment we have a Federal Minister – “order the education director” – also there may be female education directors, but that is another topic – “in agreement with the head of state” – there are also national heads of state – “on its proposal.” This is what the NEOS are proposing now, and that is their change towards the heads of state. So that's a minifunction, because there's still a wider sentence in this request, and that goes in the direction that, if they're fighting, the minister finally decides – the minister, if there's a change. And that is, please – if we look back into Austrian history, we can see that – when it comes to this balance between the federal states and the Federal Ministries, actually never happens in other areas. It will not happen in this area either. So you don't agree for something that 99.9 percent will never arrive. This is no longer understandable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now let me deal with something that also moves people, and I can only address one essential point: There are great fears in front of the common school, and I hear again and again, there is a levelling down. Let me take a moment. A common school has a place where it is correctly introduced, where one can see that the children are encouraged, the opposite effects. South Tyrol – without a gymnastic sub-level! – especially in the top range, has much more top students than Nordtirol, for example – with this model we want Greens! South Tyrol, by the way, has only half as many risk students in the lower area. So we don't want to focus on total school models that don't work – they also exist – but we're looking at those models that work! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And there is still some work on us, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of work on us – also on the future Minister of Finance or on the future Minister of Finance! Then: Of course, the South Tyroleans also put more money into this system, and the South Tyroleans also have a better relationship between students than we do in Austria. We need better support for these teachers. Please read in today’s edition of the “Falter”, there is an interview by the editor with several teachers at New Secondary Schools, and the result is clear: The present system is unfair, it protects the privileged from those who are not privileged. – With us Greens this is certainly not possible! We from the Greens want more education justice, and we have achieved some of it with this law, we are proud of it. I'm really trying to think about it again. It's not going to be with the liberals, but maybe with the NEOS. Then: This is a package that points in the right direction, this package brings progress. I'm seeking approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14264	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Hammerschmid, spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14286	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Members of the House! Dear spectators on the televisions! Believe me, the Ministry of Education and I myself know very well where the problems are in our school system, and our aim is to respond to them as soon as possible. On the subject of strengthening basic skills, we have long responded, Mr Lugar, because we have, together with school supervision and together with the educational universities, because of the standard education data that we finally have and which gives us an insight into the system, identify those schools that have to deal with real special challenges and thus lower them. These schools are now being closely accompanied for several years now, to eliminate obstacles and to intervene exactly where there are weaknesses. To this end, different packages of measures will be used to support these schools, these educators, those they need, and, of course, to provide the children with the support they need in order to move forward. It's been on track and communicating. And we have – and obviously we have to communicate this over and over again, because that also doesn't seem to penetrate in any way – already react to the special challenges we have in our school system, because there are more and more children whose mother tongue is not German. With the integration stop II, III – which is once again secured next year – we address the subject precisely. We spend the funds exactly along these challenges according to clear criteria and use educators whose focus is on improving the language competence of these students. I am talking about language starting groups and language courses that take place accompanying and integrated in school. These children are in the regular school, in the classroom and learn in addition to these eleven hours a week in which they are intensively cared for and learn German, the German language also because they are in the regular class, which means they have colleagues in the class, where German is simply always present. That means we've tied a comprehensive package. This also includes psychologists and social workers who address these schools in particular. We don't wait there, but react immediately! That is the command of the hour on these topics! That we still have much to do is also clear, that is no question at all. We face enormous social, economic and economic challenges; I do not need to explain them in detail. Digitalisation and the technologies that are constantly playing into our society are only part of the challenges we face. Much of that we cannot even abandon, we do not know how the fields of work will develop in the next ten or 15 years. Many other topics are still relevant to our society. What we must do – and that is the commandment of the hour! – is to prepare our young people and our children to deal with these challenges. How can we prepare them? – By sending them to a school system that is modern, which acts forward-looking and makes the future fit by motivating the educators to give them the freedom to shape their work as the children need. It's about every child. This principle must focus on: It's about every child, it's about his/her talents, and it's about his/her potential! What does it need to do? – That educators can teach them so that they can promote and demand these talents and potentials. These are quite different learning methods from those that have been used mainly so far. That's where we talk about topic-specific teaching, where we talk about project-specific teaching, about learning agencies, where the class association is no longer rigid, but is dissolved, multi-stage and mixed with years. These are quite different learning methods – learning methods that give us education. This is a treasure, and it should be possible for our educators to benefit without having to apply for a school trial without having to overcome bureaucratic obstacles. They should be able to act immediately, they should be able to respond to the children's talents without obstacles. Ladies and gentlemen, this is at the heart of our autonomy package! This is his core: Freedom! – Freedom in pedagogical design, thus also the organizational topics that belong to it: Abolishing the 50-minute unit, abolishing fixed, single-mented student peaks, group and division numbers. The allocation of resources to schools does not change at all. We have repeatedly enshrined this in the law: That's not a savings package, we don't want it ourselves! But what I want is that the educators can shape – and there I trust deeply in them. And if they consider it necessary to work in smaller groups, that should be possible. It should also be possible to work in larger groups – as they need it. This is at the heart of our autonomy package! In addition, the learning plan provisions, the priority provisions in schools. The schools should be able to determine this themselves. They are also intended to address questions coming from the municipality, from the municipality, which are defined by the city and by the economy. Especially in cluster associations, the school should be able to open up much more to society and address the various questions. That is also a very, very important point. If we say that schools should be able to design educators and educators, this also means a lot more responsibility at the school location, much more responsibility for design at the school location. A key condition is that the directors can choose their new teachers, because these teams of teachers who are to teach interdisciplinaryly need to work. You have to play together. You also have to take very different roles. They are probably also a lot more coach, consultant and mentor in young people and act more at eye level. In other words, these teacher teams need to understand a pedagogical concept, and that is why it is so important that the headmaster has the opportunity to assemble the teams accordingly. I've been striping the subject cluster. It is important to me once again to stress that we clusters in particular have also created to secure micro-schools. We have enormous challenges in this regard, especially in the rural regions. These clusters make it possible for small schools to be united under one roof, under which cluster roofs are used efficiently. In addition, educators have thus again increased exchanges between each other, and the non-special teaching, which is a real problem in our system, can be reduced because there are simply more educators in the cluster and they can again teach what they have learned and studied. Thanks to the increased exchange of teachers, educators can give each other feedback and thus have the opportunity to further develop pedagogy. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That hasn't happened yet?- Oh, my God!]] The formation of mixed clusters will also be possible – for me a special feature, because we can use the mixed cluster to make it possible for the children within a cluster to define their educational careers from the folk school to the Matura. This ensures complete continuity in the cluster, and it will be much easier for the children if the interface problems between the individual school types are thus largely eliminated. And in the cluster – and this has been stressed over and over again, but it is so important that I want to say it again – of course we also ensure that additional administrative staff is used, because these are larger school units. This will relieve the teachers and teachers of their administrative duties. That too is a very important point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Authority has already been a subject that has been discussed in detail today. It is important to me once again to stress that this is primarily about efficiency and also transparency. For the first time we charge all educators in this authority centrally through the Bundesrechenzentrum. For the first time, we know how many educators they teach, how much they teach where they teach. In this context, the management will be very strong in the future, which will finally be made possible. The Authority is built in such a way that the kindergarten and the horde can also be integrated into the authority. In this way, it will be possible to put the entire education system under a management system and, above all, to arrange the staff accordingly. This brings efficiency and transparency. Once again, I emphasize that there are clear criteria for the management functions with the new authority and the new law for the first time – criteria that are in the law and which clearly state that there are selection commissions, where there are also people coming from human resources agencies, the opinions, assessments in terms of leadership, leadership experience and leadership competence, which is very important for these management functions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That hasn't happened yet?- Oh, my God!]] The Commissions shall make appropriate proposals for the appointment of the respective management. There was no such thing: standardized, transparent and objective. The party policy is thus a good and large piece of history and is significantly pushed back. What is also anchored in this authority is the opportunity index. One thing that matters to me is: It is about controlling resources in particular where there is a real need for action and where problems lie. The opportunity index, which is defined over six factors, sets out for the first time what the design should look like in the needs-oriented resource distribution of the future. That is what the law means, this proposal, which has been put to the vote here in Parliament. And the criteria on which it is concerned are, of course, the number of students and pupils – that is little surprising – the need for support for the students, the socio-economic background, and the language of the children is also a topic, the regional challenges and needs, because of course we need to differentiate, and of course the priorities of the school, which is clear, there are different allocations needed. So there are six criteria for the opportunity index, which will be direction-setting and trend-setting in the future. Now to the model regions a few remarks: Yes, this law allows us to set up model regions and thus make common schools become reality in Austria. Thanks also to the Greens at this point. It is a system that has been international practice for decades, where a lot of experience has been given. South Tyrol was the subject today, I was there at the time, I even invited to make this excursion to South Tyrol on the subject of common school and inclusion, because both are well solved there exemplaryly. [[Abg. Walser: I mentioned that!]] These countries live in a masterful way, and we must also accept, adopt, adapt and adapt their experiences accordingly in the future model regions so that we can make the good possible at the joint school for Austria. The package contains many other points that many may overlook, but which are very important points, which also require mentioning: For example, the tenth voluntary school year for extraordinary students will be possible. The 11th and 12ths. School year for children with special educational needs are regulated. And another topic is addressed: We know that a lot of educators also care about chronically ill children and children with diseases, and we have now also dealt with the liability issues accordingly – and much more, much more, but that would probably lead too far now. I would like to express my warmest thanks to all those involved: my own group, the ÖVP, the Greens, the Prime Minister Mahrer and, above all, to you, Harald Walser, for the fact that we have never lost sight of what it is all about, namely the children and a pioneering school system. The future of our children also crucially defines the future of our country – I would like to stress that once again – and also helps the economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Appreciate Members of the House! It will be up to all of us to implement this package in the best sense. This is not happening from today to tomorrow. This is a comprehensive system change. This leads us to a completely new school culture and a completely new school world. This wants to be well accompanied, wants to be a well-designed process, qualitatively also flanked accordingly, so that nothing goes wrong. This will also take a long time, because of course we want to proceed step by step. But one thing is clear: We are called on to bring this reform into being well, and the legal framework for it is being negotiated with this package today and hopefully decided upon. It's about putting into life and putting it into practice, and I'm looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14389	Next, Mr Magistrate. Houses to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14410	Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house and everyone who listens! Minister! Well, if this were all so easy, you'd be a magician. Since 1945, ÖVP, SPÖ with changing strength conditions have been making school policy, and the result is that you have never had as bad results as you have. We really have a disaster! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you really believe that with the Education Reform Act, with which you introduce the school autonomy that we also support, and with the model regions, you will solve all the problems we currently have in school policy. [[Abg. Walser: Not everyone! It's a soft spot!]] You act beyond the essential problems and close your eyes because you want to bring party politics into school because you are politicalizing the school and not paying attention to the essential problems. That's the problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Walser.]] Mr Walser! As a pedagogue, you should know you're talking when you're on it, and not when you're not on it. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] It's supposed to be polite, but you're a director who can't. I take note of that. Now, if you look at the situation in schools here and today and we put the problems on the table, we are often put on the ground. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] That's why I quote from a newspaper a frustrated teacher who anonymously gave an ORF interview and put all the problems to the point we've been addressing for years. I quote: A third of the students of 25 children can hardly follow the class, three of them not at all, the other five a little. . We demand the German obligation before enrolment. You ignore this problem. – Children often lack an excuse for days. – Your package does not solve the problem either. – The biggest problem is the problem born in Austria from Turkish families. Until the compulsory kindergarten year they do not come into contact with German at all. – Integration does not work at all! Minister for Integration Kurz has completely failed to do so. In summary, it reads in this article: In order to satisfy all children, the lesson is cut down so that even the weakest students understand him. Not only do they stay gifted, but also quite normal children on the track, parents advise them – and this is a disaster, please – to send these children to a private school. - We don't want that! We want a school that solves problems, solves problems for all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution on the maintenance of the indicative values or maximum levels for the maximum number of students: [[Quoted print version removed]] We discuss 25. I can remind you that in special schools there are currently 13 pupils on average, 25 should be the border. How does that work? Perhaps a last word about South Tyrol: They always mention South Tyrol as a model. Today, Mr Walser spoke about it for the first time next to me, and I was there at the time. Say loud and clear and honest that South Tyrol invests 20 to 25 percent of the national budget in education! – Mrs Minister, you are required here! If I put this on the Austrian budget, you will have to invest 20 billion € in education in the future and not 8.6 billion €. I wish you luck. Let's stay honest! I can do anything. If I put a pedagogue next to every problem student, it'll work. But you don't have the means. If you get the money, let's talk about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14510	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14602	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14623	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The ink with which the cornerstones of this educational reform are signed is not yet dry, there are already the first unknowing calls and the first criticism. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: It's not unmistakable, Mrs. Colleague!]] Anyone who once went to school acts as a specialist in education. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, Androsch, Salcher! Yeah, right!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: All failed SPÖ politicians!]] I would like to thank all those involved who have contributed to this educational reform, especially our Federal Minister Sonja Hammerschmid. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who knows how hard it is to carry out a little referendum in school life knows how hard these negotiations were. Thank you again. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] As a teacher, as a teacher, I very much welcome the flexibility, the freedom of group education – our Federal Minister has also mentioned this in particular – during the duration of teaching, at the opening hours, at the curriculum. Finally, school directors are empowered to decide on the spot what the school location needs, what the region needs. You can deal specifically with the situation on the spot, and that is simply welcome. As a local speaker, I very much welcome the possibility of clustering. Especially in rural areas, we have micro- and micro-schools that are constantly threatened by closure, and cluster education is no longer in danger of being closed because they can form a community with other schools. In the next few years, it will be a matter of testing, costing and evaluating the possibilities of this reform. I am convinced that many committed teachers will live up to this reform. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14705	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14723	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Klubobmann Strolz, has presented our absolute minimum requirement and our proposal for the amendment we would need so that we can accept it. Mr Walser, you then made fun of it, saying it wouldn't be countered. Well, where did we take out the text? – From the annex to this law, where your name stands, where there is no conflict. Among other things, we wanted to show – as you have criticized that we do not show a willingness to compromise – that we are ready to compromise, but, as you always say, better than before is simply not good enough in this case. It cannot be our approach that we accept that national leaders in this way are cemented into this power position by this law. That is not possible, and that is why it is our proposal to remove this provision. [[Abg. Walser: You suggest that! That's your own proposal!]] Do you know what we want to take out? – We want to find out that the head of state can appoint himself President. You think that's okay? [[Abg. Walser: No one said that!]] If you agree, you are perfectly d’accord with that, which is acceptable to you. That's absolutely crazy! I find it unacceptable that the greens make themselves here and say: That's totally okay for us, we just ignore it! This is like seeing nothing, hearing nothing and so on, because you just want to go here and be there. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Walser and Mr Strolz.]] There is another point from which we feel it is very painful that he is not inside, and that is elementary pedagogy. This is because it has been lost in the course of this reform of education, which has really been left on the road in the course of these negotiations. This is a project that was still presented in the Council of Ministers in 2015, as it was said that the kindergarten, the first educational institution, is laying essential foundations for the development of the children – the tears really come to me in memory of so many emotions – and the potential, talent and language promotion are starting there. Yeah, that's right. Then why is it not in this educational reform? You admit that it may not be so, or that you all don't care. And what of that would be worse now? – I believe you don’t feel all in this area – and that’s the worst thing on the whole – that you don’t realize that the reforms in elementary education are what we really need. If we want to solve the major problems in compulsory school afterwards, then we are all really lost, because the drama is most noticeable there. There's one thing you have to say: The education compass or what is left of it may be better than before, but not good enough. These are not the demands we make on what the little ones in our country really need, that is not good enough. This is not the quality of the policy we expect here. We know that in the basic education sector, investment is not only the most important but also the most effective. That is why we can only wish: After the education reform is prior to the education reform. Let us go, for that is most urgent, the subject of elementary education!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14786	Next, Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14807	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am particularly pleased today that we can implement and decide on this educational reform, because it is really a big package. [[Call at the FPÖ:Really?! You're glad?- Oh, my God!]] The question arises again and again why such educational packages, such reform packages, are so difficult to implement. But, of course, it is a consequence of the fact that society is changing first, that the challenges are increasing, the proportion of migrants in cities is increasing, the working world and society are changing, but it is the same as the urban-land gap. So there are a lot of different interests that you have to put under one hat, and that's not easy. I thank all those who have tried to do so, and I am glad that we can now decide on this package. As a Member of Parliament from a rural region, I would like to draw up three points which are particularly moving and touching me, in which, as I believe, I also see great benefits for our region: This is, of course, cluster formation. We have already worked this through in practice at home. A director has attended two or three schools, and that has worked great, wonderful works. I also see voluntary clustering with concentrations of up to eight schools as a very good way to obtain the small schools. Secondly, the autonomy package: It's come from the schools themselves. You want more co-determination, and with this package we take this into account. In the future, they will be able to determine the number of students in the class, set priorities, speak with teachers in order to determine the length of the hours themselves. Why is there this demand? – Because, of course, the parents, teachers and students know best what things are needed on the spot. Thirdly, I also like the organisational package very much, especially the establishment of these educational directorates. It is cleaned up with the Fleckerlüpich authorities and created more transparency, I think, too, this is a very modern quality assurance. However, the educational package is inevitably an organisational package, which we must already be aware of. A next step must, of course, be a package in which pedagogy is even more prominent. This will cost money, but I believe that we must be able to implement it, because the educational landscape is continuing to develop, and it will certainly not have been the last educational package. I would like to conclude by thanking all the parents, school representatives, the trade union, the ministry, of course also the teachers who have always helped to implement this package. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14841	Next came Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14865	Madam President. High house! Believers at home! Mrs Hammerschmid, I have to bring you back from your dream world, in which you have been for a long time, into the reality of Austria and can read to you the email of a young, committed teacher from Vienna: Dear Mr. Worm! I am a teacher at a folk school in 1120 Vienna, which is one of the many-Quoted Focus Schools with an almost 90 percent share of students with a first language other than German. Before teaching, one of the most important needs to be done on the part of the teacher: Education. What is no longer taking place in many parents' homes – spending time together, eating together, sharing with each other, helping the child in house exercises, maintaining child-friendly rest periods, providing healthy nutrition, reading; may the list be completed – must necessarily be compensated for by the school-careers. They have no idea of what that means in reality when you are a teacher to achieve educational goals and at the same time teach children to ask and thank you when you have to give children alphabetize and at the same time comfort because of severe toothaches, if you have to provide saddle strength in the painting series and at the same time follow the money for the class trip, and the whole 25 times. Social learning is becoming more difficult today than it was in my school years, under the conditions: Children do not master the teaching language, have special needs, are neglected. And so on and so on. That on one and a half sides of a teacher. The conclusion of this teacher on your reform package: The government-planned autonomy package is a savings package. This will not help us with the daily challenges at the school location, at focal schools or special educational facilities, quite the contrary. What's this about? – To improve each child. However, I do not see how this package will work. - Quote. That's a teacher's letter, and that's not a FPÖ elector, not yet, maybe she'll still be. If one now considers that this educational reform is being made mobile by the teacher side, especially by ÖVP teachers, SPÖ teachers, teachers from the Greens, then one can easily calculate that this is not an educational reform that helps our children precisely in these cases of problem. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] I've already shown them last time, the BIFIE 2016 study on reading skills in Austrian compulsory schools: 60 percent of students in New Secondary Schools can't read or just read rudimentary, by the way, the AHS is frighteningly 17 percent. You could complete this list. Unfortunately, in the field of compulsory schools, God really has a disastrous result, which is why – only a measure by many – I make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e14937	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15038	The next item is the speech by Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15061	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No, it is not the last educational reform that this country has seen, but it is definitely a good, necessary and important educational reform for this country that we will decide here today. I am very happy about the outcome of the negotiations and that we have reached an agreement. I would like to point out once again the points that we, a success of the Greens, have been able to negotiate in this reform. I don't have that much time, so it's just the following seven points. First, the model regions. We've talked about it a lot, you all know each other. The concrete got cracks! It is possible to make model regions for the common school in the future. This is a great success. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, The de-party politicization of the school management. So far, the GÖD, the union headquarters in Vienna, has sent people to the assessment committee. In the future, the federal states will do this themselves. In the future, there will be hearings at the schools concerned; in other words, teachers can ask questions to the people who become their directors, they can take an insight into the documents, et cetera. – This is a great increase in transparency. Thirdly, There are also more rights for the school partners in the education departments. There is more transparency, there is insight into the files, there is insight into the application documents, there is also the possibility of taking note of files during the discussions on the planned agenda items. This is a strengthening of the local school partners, an increase in transparency that we simply did not have so far. Fourth: Mixing cluster. So far, it has not been possible for federal, compulsory and professional schools to work together. We can do this for the first time with this law, an important success. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Kogler and Mr Walser.]] Fifth, you open a bottle Chances index. In the negotiations, we ensured that the special pots, in particular with regard to language promotion, are integrated stopper II et cetera pp.. We have an anchor for the opportunity index, which is extremely important. We will have to continue working on it, but at least we have extended the pots. Sixteenths: In the future, there will be a parents' right to apply to determine whether their child needs special education or not. This too is a great step forward. Seventeenths, one of those points on which my colleague Harald Walser has been applying for years: A school ombudsman is set up in the federal government, where affected parents, teachers, students can turn directly to their concerns, where they are directly helped when problems arise in the school system. These are all the points that we were able to achieve in the negotiations in addition to the points that were previously listed, the federal billing et cetera. This package is really a step forward. I am still sorry that NEOS do not want to see this and do not want to agree. Another appeal: Maybe you'll give yourself a back, there's a lot of good things inside. As I said, it will not be the last reform, but it is a good one. Please agree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15131	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15153	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Education is one of the most important foundations of a successful career path. The Austrian education system in its diversity enjoys a good reputation both nationally and internationally. However, political influence is not conducive to education. Although technology and the economy are exposed to continuing development, reforms adapted to development are needed. It should be noted that numerous reforms have resulted in an unmistakable downturn, so that now there is no need for significant financial expenditure to restore, for example, the security needs of the population. The formation of a total school for 10-14-year-olds is not the final conclusion of wisdom. The possible change in different types of school must be maintained, taking into account the development and suitability. The renaming of former primary schools into now New secondary schools represent a pure cosmetics. The training goal is decisive. On the part of the economy, it is repeatedly complained that non-significant deficits – in spelling, in German language in general, as well as in mathematics – call into question this educational policy. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is an old... demand!]] The formation of so-called clusters should be rejected for teachers and directors as a whole of eight school units. There is a potential for conflict with the students through often burned-out teachers. Let us remember our schooling: A schulpzychological service for teachers as well as for students was not given and imaginable. This is another expensive extension of the bureaucratic administration, rather than making a sensible investment in education. This is not understandable and gives rise to the appearance of creating new posts in addition to new bureaucratic barriers for students and teachers. A constructive and continuous relationship between students, parents and teachers is the basis of a positive school success, but this will not be given in view of the likely multiple teacher change. Pedagogical improvements are required, and there is no understanding of an overarching administration. If we now come to university education, it should be noted that their financial security is a prerequisite. With regard to study applicants from the EU and abroad: The limits of the authorisation shall be complied with. In addition, tuition fees appear appropriate. Successful graduates must be required to pursue a temporary activity, for example for five years, in Austria. Policy must create the foundations of a well-founded training at various levels, a political influence must be strongly rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15181	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15205	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of a former practitioner, it is possible to list examples of this law for at least one hour, which will be possible everything that has not yet been possible or only very difficult. Maybe two things ahead: I share the criticism of Mr Strolz regarding the school authority, which is not a question, but it was not possible without compromise, so the formulation of the new school administration has been so chosen. That's so, you couldn't do it any different. The same applies to model regions: I believe that when a whole federal state, when all the parents of a federal state are questioned, all teachers of a federal state are involved, all political groups are involved, all are in favour of being the educational institution of a higher education institution and set up their own courses, then one should also be so far and say, yes, that is the obstacle to Grossglockner, and should not create a problem area that a single school can bring the whole thing into swing. This is the great danger I see, but that was a compromise. I am glad that this step is being taken. The second, and this is for me the decisive thing in the whole package that we decide today, and I am sorry that the FPÖ colleagues cannot go along with it: I've only heard in this house for years and days, so you can't do it, the school is a disaster and what do I know, but there's no single proposal for a reform. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There's no one, just: It's supposed to stay that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The results that condemn you, but you have no proposal, you just say it should stay that way. [[Abg. Hauser:... four applications submitted!]] And I'm telling you one thing now... – Listen [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You may be doing well once in a while! [[Abg. Hauser: Then don't talk that nonsense!]] The great advantage of this package is that we finally have an autonomy at the school location, autonomy and individualization are the words of magic in these reform measures. [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] These are the crucial points. Let us give the responsibility there – and that is done with it – where it belongs! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hauser.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Without shortening resources, the school location can decide for itself how to use the resources, how German funding lessons are designed, how weaker students are brought forward and gifted. This can be decided by the school location itself by targeting the resources. The school location can decide for itself: How do we want to organize all day care? What do we need, what do we need, what can we do in this area so that it makes sense for the students entrusted to us? With this possibility of autonomy we can care for the children individually. The focus can be placed without major requests in such a way that the basic competences of reading, writing, calculating can be promoted in such a way that these high rates of pupils who are not so good or weak in basic skills can be reduced. Resources can now be targeted at the school location. It is absolutely crucial – and that is what I say as a person concerned, as a teacher and former headmaster – that schools be freed from the really big administrative waste that per day on teachers and students, from the federal government, from the country, from districts, and thus targeted at the problems at the school location and can bring children there, that no child actually remains on the road. [[Abg. Mölzer: That's gonna be better now?]] That is our goal, and I am fighting for it, and this law is an important contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15311	Mr Huainigg is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15333	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Education reform also brings significant improvements to disabled children. There is now the possibility that the voluntary tenth and eleventh school year can be attended not only in a special school but also at a regular school. It was very absurd that a child, who was integrated, then had to go to the special school. This has now been changed. In addition, parental guidance takes place at a neutral place, namely at the education offices, and no longer at the special school. We have tried that in Tyrol, and it has proved to be very good and sensible. An essential measure is also that teachers may carry out medical activities and are also insured for them. This is important for chronically ill children, even if they are on a ski holiday, that teachers may also do so voluntarily. In this area, I would like to ask that school assistants who are in the classes for support should also be allowed to perform nursing activities and medical activities, which we must amend in the Health and Hospital Care Act, which is also a wish that should be taken into account. And now there is also the possibility of clustering between special schools and regular schools. I believe that this also offers the opportunity for schools to work more together, to pool resources, and to enable better education for disabled children. What we decide today is a resolution for more and more forced and standardized sign language in teacher training. It is very important that deaf children are also taught in their language, sign language. In this context, I am particularly concerned that teachers who are deaf may also teach. We have opened up the educational universities, we have removed physical fitness. In Vienna, a teacher succeeded in continuing a bilingual class to be dissolved by the City School Council. This is a great success, even for the parent movement. We should set up more bilingual classes in which sign language and native speakers, deaf teachers, are taught. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that human dignity should be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15376	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15399	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The current Education Reform Act has already been positive, but also negatively illuminated by many. The fact is that with this law we must certainly take some steps in the right direction, but that further reforms will have to follow. A topic that was discussed not only here but also in the media in connection with this reform on and off, of course, have always been the model regions and, in particular, the model region of Vorarlberg. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that it was not the case that the Vorarlberg state government thought: Ui, now we want a model region in Vorarl-berg! – No, on the basis of an in-depth study, on the basis of an intensive research project, the Vorarlberger Landtag discussed this topic intensively and came to the following decision: “The Vorarlberger Landtag is committed to the recommendations of the research project “School of the 10- to 14-year-olds in Vorarlberg” and supports the efforts of the state government to implement them step by step – in accordance with a stage plan to be completed by the end of 2015 at the latest. The aim is to create the conditions so that a common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds can be established in Vorarlberg throughout the country.” Ladies and gentlemen, this text in Vorarlberg's Landtag unanimously approved the entire FPÖ Group, which we were very pleased with. However, this text did not agree with 50 percent of NEOS delegates. Obviously, you don't know exactly where you want to go, and especially if you really don't know it anymore, you're insulting the heads of state. It's a little creative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer you the opportunity to make this model region possible in Vorarlberg, and I would like to say thank you to the negotiating team, Mrs Mahrer, and also to our Minister, but also to the Education spokesperson of the Greens, Harald Walser. I believe that this is an important and correct step. But I also believe that it was important that our head of state Wallner and also the State Councillor Bernie Mennal were there constantly and repeatedly asked for this topic for Vorarlberg. But it was just as correct and important – and I would like to stress it explicitly – that the basic democracy has taken place and that now, with the consent of teachers and parents, every school location can participate in the model region. I believe that we are on the right path, even if the school partners are involved. I believe that we will also achieve success here in the cause of such persuasion. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15446	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15467	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Estimated members of the ÖVP! Facilitate your conscience towards your future Bundesobmann and agree! Also to all those who are particularly concerned about women's rights headaches here: You agree! I have already heard a lot in this debate; the Federal Minister has said about the image of the teacher in the future that he needs to become more of a coach, he needs to become more of the ally, he needs to become more of a mentor. What I lack in this whole educational reform is points that need to be addressed in the education system, such as performance, effort and discipline. That's completely missing. And that would be important at the educational location of Austria. We've talked about high school students and a lot of others, but I'm now going to one of the core points in there. I'd like to read a few things. I do not see Mr Rädler right now, but he will certainly be obliged to do whatever comes from a Lower Austrian authority which is still very much dominated by the ÖVP; this decision has even been adopted unanimously, even though SPÖ delegates and delegates of the Greens are in this body. I quote: ‘Preamble ==References====External links==* Official website Proposals for reforms in the field of education. New secondary school, central matura, NOST, various tests and specifications [...]” – And so on. – “The lack of long-term goals, perspectives and clarity leads to uncertainty. Insurance, however, is not a good pedagogy. This reform paper will also be evaluated from this point of view.” It's about autonomy: "However, in the case of closer consideration, the proposal does not meet these requirements. [...] Much of what the autonomy package promises is already being implemented in many innovative schools [...].’ It is also discussed that this whole reform should be cost-neutral. Where does that stand when all the demands we all have here in beautiful speech? have heard the experts who obviously have no idea how it actually looks in a classroom, in the Blue Salon of the House at Minorite Square? I believe that a very special Krux is the fact that these reforms and reflections are thought of by people who actually have no idea where the problems are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Proposing cost-neutrality: Where, then, does the money come from for the support staff, the psychological support, the administrative staff? Where's all this coming from? This budget is one of the worst we have in the Austrian budget. The funding gap is clumsy, but we have now finally made a reform. Everything is being crushed, including depoliticization. Instead of a democratic body, such as the National School Council or District School College, there are now only representatives sent. So it will actually be – what does it mean to stick to the dignity of the house? – not quite the truth, but so that the beams still bend. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] This education policy approach does not bring us any millimeters further in Austria. The aim is to create a body of its own to be constitutionally anchored. This is not a good day for Austrian education today. The next good day for Austrian education will be the 15. October, after that, the parents' associations and teachers, who have all turned to us, can be sure that this reform will be tightened back – and it is said in confidence: in the interest of our children! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15588	Once again Mr Walser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15610	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, Mr Rosenkranz, you seem to know well in the classroom. However, I think they have never been as a teacher in a classroom. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Angerer and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In contrast to me: I've been there for 30 years, and I can assure you: What we decide today is in the interest of the children and is in the interest of the schools. They mentioned three central terms. They have said that the talk should be about performance, effort and discipline. – D’accord, I am with you. Do you know when performance in children is best? – If they learn with joy when they are with enthusiasm. We have to get there, and we are now taking a step in this direction. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: My son is already looking forward to the education director...! Nice speech, pure beautiful speech!]] Effort: They then tighten themselves when they are interested and when reforms are made, allowing them to decide where to go in freedom with their teachers. Then you mentioned a third term: Disciplinary. Yes, discipline is something that is important. It is best for those concerned to have insight into the rules that are laid down. We currently have a system that we need to change in this direction. That's clear. But discipline is not brought with the wood hammer in children, but then, if you have reasonable rules and if you have a lesson that pleases them. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who says that?- Oh, my God!]] That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now for de-party politicization. I'll give you the right. We would have taken many, many, many steps more, but now you will explain to me why you do not agree. If we have a law and compare it to the present state: In the present state, a head of state, a head of state is automatically president of the Council of State Schools. Much more party policy does not work in the school system. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What will it be now?]] Now it is true that we are ordering educational directors who take over the administration centrally; the head of state can act as president, but the central function is appointed transparently after a call for tender. [[Abg. Lovers: those who fall from heaven!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is a crucial point. This is a crucial point. [[Conjugation with greens and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] So far, at the head of the National School Councils, we have had heads of state without qualification criteria, without everything; and we have removed that. There are now clear criteria for assessing this. – And you should consider this: better than now or not better? – It’s clearly better!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15722	Mr Delegate Dr. Rosary, I am still satisfied that the motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15828	Once again, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15852	High house! Very briefly: This morale of green refusal of reality, one does not need to comment on it any further.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15900	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Moralize instead of argument!]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We shall come to the vote. We have already held the debate on this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1707. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the amendment mentioned above contain constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Strolz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Strolz, for his excellent report. 1 introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The votes to be used shall bear the name of the Member and the name ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon, in particular, to place their votes in the urns provided. I would ask those Members who also vote in third reading for this bill to vote in favour of it, and those who vote against it to cast “No” votes in the urn. Please make sure that this is only a vote! I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mrs Mag. Korun will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e15976	The vote will end. I am now asking the officials of the House to carry out the poll under the supervision of the authors. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16017	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 125, No votes: 43. This is accepted by the majority. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lithuania, liptic, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin, Neuroth; Obernoster, kilnauer, oillinger, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Schidter, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brückl; Deimek, double farmer, doppler; Franz; Gamon Claudia Angela; Hable, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Hübner; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Kumpitsch; Lasar, Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schelenbacher, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Worm Peter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16212	We now have more votes. – If I may ask the honourable Members to take their seats again, otherwise it will be difficult to recognize the outcome of the vote. Thanks a lot. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, ladies and gentlemen, on the long-standing establishment of a sub-regional gymnasium at the BORG Hermagor. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lugar, colleagues and colleagues on the Kindergarten framework law – focus on values and German knowledge. Who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Lugar: What about the ÖVP? You'll get scumbags from Basti!]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance of the indicative values or maximum levels of schooling. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, colleagues on German classes for students without sufficient knowledge of the language of teaching. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, colleagues on the withdrawal of public law or the closure of Islamic educational institutions. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. [[16:25:59]] 14. Point report of the Committee on Education on Amendment No 2235/A by Mr Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann, Dr. Karlheinz Dägenle, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the higher education law in 2005, the School Organisation Act and the Federal School Act for Agriculture and Forestry and repeals the Higher Education Law and amends the University Law 2002, the Fachhochschul-Studengesetz, the Privatuniversitätengesetz and the Higher Quality Assurance Act (1705 d.B.) 15. Point report by the Committee on Education, Research and Technology on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Helene Jarmer, colleagues on quality in the training of teachers in the Austrian sign language (ÖGS) (1712 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Education on Amendment No 38/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleagues, on measures to increase the proportion of men in pedagogical occupations (1713, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16298	This brings us to points 14 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16329	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Today's new study law on decision-making is a consistent continuation of the new educational and educational training, which, as you know, brings together the strengths of universities and educational universities. Now, in a further step on the content, the framework conditions for students are being harmonised in order to create more clarity and legal certainty. This also concerns, for example, the admission to study in the post-term period. This is especially useful for both present and civilian servants or persons who have chosen or had to choose the fall date of the Matura. The examinations can be repeated three times, and the academic degrees are also unified so that one completes with a Bachelor or Master of Education. I see a special added value in the opening of the teacher's/teacher's profession for cross-border and cross-border beginners, not only in terms of balancing a teacher's and teacher's lack, but also in terms of cross-border entry for the school system. More aspects of the world of work can be brought in, and this also adds to our education. In this context, I would also like to thank the Teacher For Austria organization, which has been pioneering for many years. So it is a good thing, this new study law, and I hope that it will be very broad. – Thank you very much. I would also like to thank Mr Mahrer, who is now present, for his cooperation in the major educational reform: Thank you and your entire team a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16366	Next: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16387	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! We are now deciding on a wealth of innovations. various laws to harmonise the law of study so that the new teacher training can be implemented harmoniously and even more uniformly. This gives me an opportunity in the first place to consider two fundamental points. I would like to point out once again that this law, which we adopted in 2013, is a trend-setting, important one that can only gradually develop its good effect, because there are, of course, very long deadlines until the newly trained educators enter the educational institutions. I believe that this has been a very important step towards improving the educational situation in Austria, perhaps the most important at all, as international studies often show us. The second basic consideration is a little more critical. Today, we are adopting a 150-page legislative amendment to unite things into very similar or similar institutions, namely in universities. This, of course, has historical reasons because the institutions have developed quite differently – the educational universities ultimately from the teacher education institutions of the Reichskulfschule Act of the 19th century. In the 19th century and in the academic training of the institutes at the universities. Nevertheless, I am concerned if we need such an incredible wealth of regulations. I already see in it a call for us to consider whether we should not question this extreme regulatory density which meets us in many areas and which sometimes also slows us very much in our activity in principle. I would like to point out an important innovation because it is very happy and because I believe it is paradigmic. Due to the harmonisation of the situation at the universities and at the educational universities, it has been established for access to the study of qualifications and motivational determinations, and it has also been built up in capacity orientations similar to the existing regulations at the educational universities – two things that were obviously entirely natural for the educational universities, were never questioned, but which cause extreme ideological struggles or protests at the universities. There is still a challenge to free access to higher education, which, in the form of irregular access to higher education, has for a long time not been available. Almost 40 percent of all students at the universities have regulated access. I wish that this regulated access is generally provided at the universities – in the sense of the quality of the study, in the sense of the students. Why should the students of the Magisterium find better conditions than the students of legal sciences or philologies or education? It's not understandable. We need these capacity-oriented regulations everywhere, so that at last good quality in our studies is possible. Finally, I call on you to implement this. The laws exist that it would be possible to implement and would bring about equal treatment for all students.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16433	Next: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16454	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we decide on this item on the harmonisation of the law of study, on the mutual adaptation of the law of study of universities and educational universities. This is about improving student study conditions. A further point concerning the study conditions of the It is always the question of financing. The funding decides what care conditions there are at the universities. She decides whether there are enough supervisors for Bachelor's, Master's and Doctor's thesis. She decides whether a seat is available in the lecture hall. She decides whether to wait for a seminar long or not. We have had a very intense debate over the past few weeks on how universities will be financed in the next service agreement period. Former Minister Mitterlehner had promised €1.35 billion for the period 2019 to 2021, but so far the government fractions have not been able to get through to fix this financing commitment. I am therefore presenting here and today an amendment tabled by Mr Maurer, fellow Members, to Amendment No 2235/A, and I am now presenting it in the broad outlines. This request, formulated by the SPÖ Group, is about to do exactly that, namely to ensure the financing of universities for the next service agreement period: € 1.35 billion, which universities need very, very urgently. You need this security now! They need planning security, they need to know that they will also be financed in the next performance agreement period, no matter how the new elections take place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This request concerns four points. The first is the fixing of this amount, which will be available to universities in total €11 billion during this period. The second point is that the future government will be tasked with addressing the revision of university funding. It sets out the criteria for funding, which are central – as already mentioned – adequate care conditions, better study conditions for students, better study advice et cetera. All of this is anchored in it. Two further points are the postponement of the deadline to March 2018, so that this is possible despite re-election and government formation, and the postponement of the deadline for the submission of the draft performance agreements. At this point I would like to make a very intense appeal to all of you, to my colleagues from SPÖ, but also from the ÖVP, from the FPÖ, from the NEOS and from the Stronach team. We are in a pre-election campaign, that is right, but we have a responsibility to the Republic, to the universities, to the students there. I strongly appeal to you: Voices You agree with this amendment so that we can give the universities legal certainty and planning certainty! We have already decided on the reform of education, and here again we are doing something reasonable in this Parliament. Maybe there are two or three other things going on. I would like to ask you: Voices You agree with this amendment, and let us give the universities and students a positive signal and the funding they need! We can discuss everything further in the next GP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16517	The amendment has been explained in the key points, is distributed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16662	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes at the table are, in principle, very welcome and have long been overdue in different areas. Following the debate on education reform in my speech, I would like to focus on the topic of cross-border access. In recent weeks, we have heard very often of this issue of the lack of teachers or the dramatic lack of teachers, in various newspaper reports, journals and so on. Especially in this area, namely, that we simplify the fact that people have relatively flexibly the opportunity to switch from practice, out of their profession into the profession of teacher, this law does not go far enough to us. We also need to talk about what kind of picture we actually want from the teacher's profession, or which is currently ruling in our society, because in our opinion it is no longer contemporary and no longer corresponding to what would lead young, successful people with a university degree to take up this profession, to change for one, two years in it and to teach at a school. We believe that the profession should be opened to cross-border students, not only as an emergency solution, so that we can deal with the lack of teachers we are going to go to, who will inevitably come and are not prepared for, because we have no solution, but because we believe in principle that bringing different perspectives and life experiences into schools would be incredibly good, that students could benefit from being taught by people with a wide range of experience. However, this law does not go far enough, and it will not result in more cross-border beginners having the opportunity to become teachers. This can also be read from various opinions, for example from the Industrial Association or from the Institute of Teacher For Austria, which deals precisely with this and sends their young teachers, cross-border beginners especially to schools, where children with special needs are also children who need much more such teachers who have a completely different access to life, who can live with both legs and perhaps also give them quite different experiences. If we are already talking about cross-border access, we also need to talk about exit possibilities, because we are very rarely talking about this. 99 percent of teachers who are now teaching at schools have a career, which means: School, teaching school and then back to school. They don't come out there anymore – once teachers, always teachers. But this, I believe, is very unsatisfactory for many who practice the profession and, I believe, can make no one happy. We must try to make it quite normal for people with different backgrounds to go to schools and teach them there, and that if they feel that they are moving their way of life somewhere else, that they would still like to do something different in their lives than just being a teacher and a teacher, we will also give them the opportunity to do so. For this we need to work together with the AMS to develop a contemporary concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16727	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16749	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now taking a next step towards new teacher training, a harmonisation of study law, which brings important legal certainty for students and has already been explained in the key points. I would now like to comment on the other point which is also under discussion, namely the question of university funding. In recent weeks, we have been talking to the ÖVP about a new concept of university funding. We had agreed on a timetable that cannot be met because there are new elections and we could not cope with them together in the time frame provided. This has put universities in a difficult situation because, in the context of this new financing system, additional funding has also been promised, namely by the former Minister of Science Mitterlehner – financial resources that universities urgently need, which on the one hand bring inflation and on the other, additional resources to improve the situation in teaching, to improve care conditions and to increase capacity. Today, we have held intensive negotiations with the ÖVP, with Mr Mahrer. A few weeks ago, we presented to the EIA a proposal, an initiative proposal, which has provided for us to ensure these funds and to postpone the timetable that we are now providing financial security by saying: You can count on that! You need this planning security, we acknowledge it to the extent that the Ministers of Science have pledged the funds, and we are moving the detailed law at the beginning of next year to have more time for the negotiations, because it is a complex matter in which it is very important considerations! The point is that we want a new financing system, but of course we do not want to reduce the educational opportunities of young people in that country. That means we don't want it to come parallel to a reduction in the number of students. Unfortunately, we have not managed to reach agreement with the ÖVP today. Our proposal was to present our proposal, as it is now present, today as an amendment in order to secure funding today, and then to take the next steps in autumn. There's a teamwork now. The opposition took work from us and submitted our request. We have not succeeded in finding an agreement and a common way – and I regret it to a very high degree, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. However, we have very urgent appeals on the part of the rectors, on the part of many representatives from the scientific field, and we – and we have not made the decision easy – have been forced to say today: Although you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, unfortunately do not go this way of safeguarding universities with us, we will nevertheless vote in favour of our proposal. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] This means that we can decide today in this House that the financial resources for the universities will be ensured to the extent that they have been put forward and guaranteed by you, by the ÖVP, by your science ministers. It is therefore not true that this decision will follow today some form of fantasy money. We would have liked to give more to the universities, but we have taken the amounts you have proposed. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That's a way that's not easy. We have really tried to meet you today with offers. We would also have been willing to go another way to negotiate a compromise with you. I deeply regret that – and I really mean that! – that this has not succeeded, but we want to ensure this planning security for universities today in order to secure and support the future of youth, training, the most important potential in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16800	A second time has been said, Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16821	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mrs Kuntzl, this is, of course, very surprising and very disappointing. I'm actually shocked, I'm shocked that you're getting out of negotiations that we've been running for several weeks now. [[Abg. Brosz: That there is a majority against the ÖVP in Parliament!]] They had the text of the law by mid-May at the latest. There is a year-long preparation of this matter; the text of the law is, regardless of its slender, nine pages long. The regulations are in place. There is a wealth of votes with the universities. This is a very mature law that could have been discussed and finalized effortlessly in a few weeks. - You didn't do that. They apparently could not jump over your dogmatic and ideological shadows of seemingly free university entrance. I said it before: It is a seemingly free access to higher education, which is not regulated in some subjects, which in these subjects brings intolerable conditions for both students and teachers, who are not yet fixable with so much money, but who is only fixable if one regulates the entrances and thus creates acceptable support conditions. - You don't want to. You don't want to help students and not teachers, so don't help universities, you just want to serve your ideology, and that's shocking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a wealth of appeals from universities, including from other scientists, to finally address our proposals. You can't, you don't trust that, and that's really very, very disappointing. What you are proposing for financial security for universities is in this form without any real background. The universities must not be afraid of their funding. There is a very precise arrangement in Section 12 of the current University Act, which states that by the end of this year, i.e. one year before the next benefit agreement enters into force, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Science must agree on the budget of this performance agreement. There is still enough time for this, there is no emergency at all. What the Minister of Finance has promised us in addition to money, namely € 510 million, he has clearly associated this with the funding of the study ground. Now simply promise € 1.35 billion, without any further clear regulation, that is a typical method that makes me fear that we will gradually fall into situations, as we have already experienced in 2008 that money will simply be wasted – money that we do not have, and that is not responsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This is highly unresponsible, we simply can't do it. We are really fighting for the interests of the universities, and I know those, believe me, well; I know them almost hardly anyone else here in this House. We fight for the interests of the universities and not for nebulous funding via a blank check. As I said, I am horrified, and I ask the House not to accept this request by a majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16870	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16891	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to thank all the parties for accepting the request, and I would also like to take a brief look at it. I worked as a teacher, I worked as a teacher. I imagined that I was going to a class and working with the students normally, working with them. My parents have been very supportive of this, and I have managed to become a teacher. I went to the deaf school and started teaching – and then, in class, shock! In these deaf institutions, in which teachers, thus hearing teachers, worked with deaf children, became and could not be taught in sign language or communicated. In other words, the teachers could not communicate with their students and then came to me and asked me: How do you bear that, how do you do it? The children taught the teachers sign language and not vice versa. This situation has hardly changed to this day; hardly. However, teachers today have more awareness of this situation and of this topic and attend more and more in their leisure courses for sign language, so that they can then teach in sign language in the class. These possibilities are currently available in Krems and Strebersdorf at the Educational College. My request relates to the teachers who teach deaf children. They must now demonstrate a special qualification according to the reference framework for languages. They must prove that they are powerful in language according to levels A1, B1, C1, depending on which level is used. In the integration or inclusion schools, it is often the case that pupils and their parents have also reported to us and have said that there are problems in the assignment of teachers. It's like this: If, for example, a deaf child comes into a class, this student is simply assigned a teacher, an inclusion, integration teacher, and then there are the problems, because the teacher may not be able to teach Sign language or is not well used by this student. The application is intended to ensure that a qualification can be demonstrated and that the allocation of teachers to students works well. I would like to thank the representatives of all parties for their support. I say that we have reached an intermediate goal from a great point of view. The big goal is not yet achieved, which is only an intermediate station, because the big goal is that sign language also becomes a language of instruction. I do not mean that all teachers have to be able to sign, no, I am concerned that it is necessary for parents to fight for their children and their language rights. if the children are deaf. I am concerned that at least these teachers can sign, because if children can learn their first language, that is, sign language, they can also learn German. You can also learn German, better. In fact, of the 10,000 deaf people in Austria, about 20 people have reached the university because they have made the Matura; all others have not. These figures show what it looks like in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16946	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e16967	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this comes out when you are constantly acting on your own, see educational reform, betray principles and the like. The SPÖ has kept you in mind what you like to do yourself. Thus, the coalition break is expected to take place today. We will probably vote in favour of Mr Maurer's request. Mr Karlsböck, our science spokesman, will then discuss this in more detail later. It is to be said, of course, that we recognise or understand that it is necessary to make bureaucratic and similar adjustments here. Mrs Gamon has already discussed it today, but it is important for me to stress that, despite an uplifting coalition dispute, which we are going to experience at the same time, the subject area of cross-border entry into the teacher's profession is a very essential one, which we also fully support, but we can see a little too little in this direction in the current legislative proposal. It only surprises me when the SPÖ and the ÖVP have always carried out the very interesting model of the Private Initiative Teach For Austria accordingly and rightly praised it, but justament in this change in the law of this Teacher-For-Austria model, with which the cross-entry of people who do not study for a teaching office or have not done educational studies should not be found again. I join my previous speaker from NEOS: In any event, we need to step up our efforts in the future, and we need to look at the need to find an improvement, because there is no question: The lack of teachers and teachers who roll on us is now blatantly noticeable in many areas, for example, when you think of mathematics and other scientific subjects. It will therefore be important for us to take appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17000	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17022	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagued daughters, a sentence on higher education funding: You know that this had to be ensured, and we do today! For the funds you are talking about, by the way, made available by the former Vice-President Mitterlehner, there are, even you know, very clear specifications, and these are also part of this request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to respond to the request that Mr Jarmer has already spoken about. I do not know how you are, but I find the Austrian sign language or sign language extremely fascinating in itself. In Austria, about 15,000 people speak sign language, and since 2005 it has also been recognized as a language in our constitution, which is entirely, very central. I believe it needs to be made even more public and, so to speak, more visible. Some of this, of course, also contributes to the interpreters who translate every single speech from us here. – Thank you at this point! [[General condolences.]] On the proposal that we are going to decide today: It is quite clear the framework for recognition, and the educational universities are required to do so. I say thank you for the initiative, I think it's great that we can decide this very wide. I hope that today's debate will also provide incentives for future teachers, for teachers already active, to learn the sign language. Educational universities offer this opportunity. It is, I think, always exciting to learn a new language, also for yourself. But let us think of the children and young people: This is quite central to enable them to be taught in this language in the future, because in my opinion, not all children need to be able to speak. As I said, I hope to be able to contribute to this debate in order to provide incentives for the Austrian sign language in class, and I simply hope that many teachers will follow this, so to speak. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17070	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17091	Madam President. Minister! Minister! The jar goes to the well for so long until it breaks, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We have heard – I am just counting this – what applications we have already made today, which have been announced by your side in broadcasts – at least by your future party chairman – and have finally been completely rejected here. This was the picture on the insurance card, which was the strengthening of the practical doctor, which concerned the care insurance regimen, which was now only recently Islamic kindergartens. – That was all rejected, but yesterday the newspapers were full of what you want to do! Mr. Ex-Vizekanzler Mitterlehner promised €1.35 billion more for the universities just before his graduation, then he resigned. To date, this money has not been released from your side. That is all in these figures which are now available to us, as well as in your request for amendment. As my previous speakers have said: Yes, there must be a planning security for the universities in this regard. As a scientist, I have had numerous discussions with professors over the last few days, with rectors who have said that it is a disastrous expression for the universities, as they are currently left in the rain. Now there is this request, submitted by the SPÖ, modified by the other opposition party. We can join this, because it is a framework condition for universities. [[Abg. Prince: Super! Pre-performance to red-blue!]] [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and ÖVP.]] - I'm a little hotter. Sorry, I can't...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17128	It is not just you, Mr President, that the noise level is really too high, so that the speaker and his speech cannot be followed. I'm looking for more attention. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17143	It is a legal framework that is set out here. The detailed work will have to be done by the next Federal Government, but for us it is clear: We want a free study. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that the Matura must be sufficient for a place at an Austrian university. What we're missing a little bit and we're not going to be here right now – but it's just a compromise – is that we're demanding 600 million euros back. Of course, we want to see the country of origin demanded, but these are fine points which we can discuss in the case of the next government negotiations. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] That is, we can go along with this request. As I said, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it has been announced quite a lot – what does “very much” mean? – everything has been announced, but nothing has actually been implemented. All requests were made in the committees to the victims or were rejected here in plenary. It's all beautiful! This is a very big constituency that is taking place here. Now it's up to you! I am grateful that we are finally bringing something forward, especially in such an important agenda as university funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17192	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17213	Madam President, thank you very much for the speech. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Originally, the plan was to discuss today a proposal which we consider to be very important to all of us together, namely that we need measures to increase the proportion of male educators in kindergartens, but especially in primary and secondary areas, in schools in general, in order to increase the proportion of men in pedagogical professions. This is a concern that all of us share, as opposed to the topic that we now have here. It is now very much spoken and promised. Of course, universities need a certain degree of planning security. As Mr Denzele mentioned earlier, it was a great concern for us to come to a reasonable solution as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] It must already be said that a very populist application has now been made here, which does not solve the problem, because there is a firm assurance from Minister of Finance Schelling that 510 million € have been fixed for this university funding – but above all on the condition that it is associated with a corresponding study site financing, and that is not included in your application now. If you say you guarantee the university the financing, then I tell you, you will not secure it, but you will bring the universities to the established and previously promised financial security in autumn, because this agreement does not guarantee that these funds will flow. Above all, because Mr Karlsböck here said that it was about free access to higher education: We're never going to stop anyone from studying higher education. [[Call to the Greens: No, not at all!]] But if we want the students who are studying at the university to find a certain quality of teaching if the professors and lecturers at the universities want to have framework conditions under which they can work in high quality, then this requires appropriate funding and then this also needs the opportunity to limit this access where studies are overrun, where there is simply too much demand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If this quality is not guaranteed if these conditions are not guaranteed, then so-called free access to higher education does not work. That is why I appeal to you for us to be in a position to find a reasonable solution which would involve funding for study places as planned. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Dear colleagues from the SPÖ, I can remind you that you yourself have your plan A, it is quite clear – I quote – that: “This is possible only with an extension of the university budget and a control of the study sites.” – This is a quote from the German Chancellor’s plan A. Kern. [[Abg. Krainer: He's good, gal?- Oh, my God!]] This is even further, and it is about: “[...] changing from a minimum number to a maximum number, which is based on the current number of graduates plus a dropout rate. That increases the quality of study.” – That’s what you promise in your Plan A, and with this application you would now be quite clearly opposed. That is why I ask you that we do not reasonably break the coalition here now, because nothing else would be an agreement. [[Abg. Kassinger: You already have that!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You know exactly – you don't need to be so hypocritical now –: We have been assured by the ÖVP that we will be reasonably involved in solutions. [[Call to the SPÖ: “Sham Saint”...! Hypocrisy is...!]] We have brought in many things together today, and we want to continue to do so until the end of the reigning period, because it is important that the things that are still open are dealt with together and reasonablely and are not sacrificed to the populist election campaign and apparent electoral sugars, which will then all repent at the end of the day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17312	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Exciting question: Theatre policy or time for new things? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Populist politics or time for new things? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and Greens.]] Left or right or time for a new policy of the middle? [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] That is why we are talking about fact-based politics. What has happened since the end of January, since the negotiations with Mr. Federal Chancellor, when he presented Plan A in advance and said widely: Yes, I become a new form of university funding, I become a candidate for access restrictions!Unknown term type: "%s".? He also wrote this: Come to us, negotiate with us, let's do this in the course of the year! We fixed this in the work programme. The work programme is clearly in there: By the end of June, we will present a model in common, approach the sachpolitical and decide. The officials of my house were particularly diligent, they were faster, and this is what belongs to a well-positioned place. We have been working on these considerations with the universities for several years, discussing the subject with all the rectors. They all know the model. Contrary to publicly asserted assumptions, I must say quite honestly, it was not the case that it was not known, but there was a ready law; on demand even two finished regulations, which we never have in other areas so early. These were presented with clear calculation methods to give universities a new financing methodology with a clear breakdown: Teaching, research and strategic, social dimensions, digitisation and other projects. The former Vice-Chancellor also made a clear public commitment very early on, in the implementation of this study site funding new and, at the same time as desired by SPÖ, to increase the study aid, which this House has already decided to seek and make available €1.35 billion more in the next service agreement period. You have to distinguish two things on the subject: Point one is the part of the inflation levy, the financing of projects already under way, the financing of other projects. The second point is new, genuine, fresh resources for improving the quality of care, for better capacity management. These were the famous € 510 million, to which the Minister of Finance has already known. It is clear, however, that a purely financial commitment without a structural change in the management of these funds will not, on the basis of clear criteria and not of any L’art-pour-l’art statements, help to improve quality at Austrian universities, and therefore will not, ladies and gentlemen, deal with the problem we are always talking about out there – with the rectors, the rectors, the many faculty members and the representatives of the assistants and students – an improvement in the care situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Without clear specifications, this is a classic old policy of the brand: Money without strategy does not solve any problems in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So it would have been very nice if we had been able to stick to the basic idea of January and even move forward on schedule, because, as you all know, there is a legal arrangement for budget creation with universities, an agreement between the Minister of Science and the Minister of Finance, until the end of the year, i.e. a year before the beginning of the new service agreement period. Therefore, in this area, theoretically all time in the world is up to 31. This year, in order to communicate these budgets to universities so that they can draw up their performance agreement proposals, which they have to submit and then enter into the intensive negotiation process. - That's the part. In the second part, I somehow feel that one wants to steal from the concrete responsibility of making an object-oriented policy and not a theatre policy. [[Abg. Rossmann: When is the budget presented? When do you want to present the budget this year?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Specific responsibility policy means that these budgets should be managed on the basis of quantifiable criteria and clear strategic guidelines and should not be given money without targets. [[Abg. Rossmann: When will you present a budget?]] [[Abg. Maurer: Have you read the paper? That's ridiculous!]] This is a policy that has always been particularly criticised by the Court of Auditors and by your group. Where are your ideas now? – L’art-pour-l’art ideas, but no specific criteria, no concrete model, but money without specifications! I actually understood the Chancellor very well when he said in January, and he also said that in Plan A, he wanted to do so on the basis of a concrete model. And it is all the more disappointing for the Republic that the Federal Chancellor was unable to enforce himself in his own group with his Plan A. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is apparent today when, in a sad agreement between the left and the right, all political groups take a decision like this: Money without instructions. This is old politics and not politics new style. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the Mitterlehner promise!]] – No, the Mitterlehner promise, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, was additional € 510 million for a concrete model and a model change that our house has developed. You need to keep reading the small print, you can't just orient yourself on headlines. One has to study the concepts carefully, and this is what the People's Party stands for: for concrete strategic... [[Abg. Maurer: (keeping a document in height) Have you read it yourself?]] [[Abg. Brosz: Delay, prevent and...!]] Mrs Maurer, I know the request, I have studied it, I hope you also know the detailed concept that we have presented to you. Don't you know? You probably don't care. [[New call of the abg. Maurer.]] – Mrs Maurer, you are satisfied with a superficial policy, we are not. [[Abg. Maurer: No, I'm not!]] You are satisfied with a superficial policy, Mrs Maurer. [[Abg. Mayer: Attitude!]] You know exactly, that's just theatre donner, it's not a form of blockade. Even the university conference, all rectors together have made much more concrete proposals than you now put them on the table for a transitional history. These are the facts. So let's stick to the facts, and let's stick to them: This is theatre policy and not a policy of new style! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17554	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17576	Ladies and gentlemen! You experience a memorable moment: Social democracy has ended its coalition discipline without coalition – and that is a good thing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bernhard.]] We have a chance that we will move on in the next two months. And I am glad that the Austrian People's Party has not lost its humor. She's suing the SPÖ Coalition Break after her Obmann has just finished the coalition. That's humour! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The time of the blockades in this Parliament is over with this item on the agenda. The game of the ÖVP no longer works. Populist request: Yes, of whom are the € 1.35 billion that are supposed to be so populist? – proposed by ÖVP Minister Mitterlehner himself! The accusation of populism is addressed to the former Minister of Science. [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] But of course – we all know him – Mr. Mitterlehner, Minister of Science, was not a populist, he was a serious politician, with whom we did not always agree, but Populist was none. And he knew one thing, the universities need these €1.35 billion, and that's why he proposed them. The Austrian People's Party is aware of this, which is why it has begun its blockade policy, because it wanted to enforce access restrictions against the majority in this House with the blockade policy. The Greens are against access restrictions, the SPÖ is against access restrictions, the FPÖ is against access restrictions. The ÖVP knows: There is no majority for access restrictions. So what does she do? – What she can best do: Block! And this Parliament is going to break through today. [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] Since 1986 there have been blockades with very few short time windows that we could use; for example, by abolishing the tuition fees at that time. Yes, let's take this opportunity! We now have two months to break through the EIA's blockade policy. I promise we'll deal with it responsibly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, we will keep in mind the financial matters of individual legislative proposals, it will not be a matter of pouring out the filler horn. We're responsible. The €1.35 billion comes from an ÖVP minister, who we have not thought of. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are many concerns that we can now implement together, such as the minimum wage. The ÖVP's blockade policy is over if the SPÖ wants it. Make a request for minimum wage; I am convinced that there will be a majority in this House! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the abolition of official secrecy: Dear SPÖ, go with me! I know from discussions with the FPÖ, there is a two-thirds majority against the ÖVP blockade party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Let's take the chance, responsibly, but let's use it! Since 1986, the ÖVP has been blocking. There are short windows, now there is one for two months. We are ready for serious negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17652	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17674	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I understand that this is a little difficult moment for you, and, honestly, I do not understand it, because what we are trying to ensure here today is the funding of universities to the extent that you have put this into space as necessary. The problem has so far been that these financing commitments have always been as PR, in press conferences, in statements that there has been no binding commitments, not even the Minister of Finance, for these urgently needed additional funds for universities, and that is why we now see ourselves in need of this step. [[Abg. Hammer:... for Plan A and F!]] The situation, as has been rightly said before, has been achieved by the fact that the ÖVP has announced the coalition and that we no longer have the time to do things in the originally planned course, to the originally planned degree. What is wrong is that with this application, the funding of the study ground would be out of place to press ahead. [[Abg. Kassinger: (keeping a document in height) Read!]] On the contrary! In this application, it even contains very specific requirements for the assurance of these funds, which correspond exactly to your draft for the funding of the study place and the joint discussion process. [[Abg. Rädler: Core in hostages of blue and green!]] As far as Mr Bundeskanzler is concerned, I would like to stress very explicitly: The Federal Chancellor recently, a few weeks ago, held a conversation with the rectors and rectors, in which he told them why we will no longer create the detailed concept before the summer, that he regrets that he will, however, strive to ensure the funding. This was also a very important reason for our decision, which we have not really made easy, because we want to speak and improve the educational situation for our young people both in school and in higher education. [[Abg. Prince:... keep word...!]] We understand this by political responsibility, and unfortunately your behavior is very old.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17758	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17779	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, Mrs Kuntzl, one should stick to the facts, and I am very pleased that you said there was a conversation a few weeks ago – not yesterday or yesterday, a few weeks ago – where the Chancellor invited the rectors and already announced to them what we did not bring together in the last three weeks. So there was obviously not only a plan A, but also a plan B, that is, a plan that we do not really want to discuss seriously, because otherwise, in the last few days and weeks, we could have talked seriously about this place of study funding. [[Call the SPÖ: Please!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Krainer]] We have been held back again and again, although everything was done, although the officials were done earlier, everything has been made transparent. It would have been much easier to say a few weeks ago that you don't want to. It wouldn't have been bad to do this, it would have saved a lot of time, and you wouldn't have awakened false hopes at the universities, they would have gotten a system changeover. [[Abg. Mayer: No Member who can stand for you!]] [[Abg. Krainer:... Government bank has lost nothing in this house!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you look at exactly what the rectors have communicated in recent weeks, then that was: They want to have this system changeover, they want to have the opportunity to control it differently. [[Abg. Krainer:... is an abuse...!]] This is the fact that one has to refer to, but that is the difference between a purely staging policy and a policy that is fact-oriented, and I would therefore ask you to stick to the facts once again. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We have presented this very serious, but it must also be said openly if you do not want to talk about it. It would be fine if one also communicates this widely, that is only honest, also to the universities, and not now says to them: Although we decide on a total budget, we do not want a system change! You must also have the courage to say: That is what we have written into a plan, but basically we do not want to do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17877	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, which, as always, I shall make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. The vote on agenda item 14 will take place first. Draft concerning a federal law that amends the University Law 2005, the School Organisation Act and the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, and repeals the Higher Education Law and amends the University Law 2002, the University Law on Higher Education, the Private University Law and the University Quality Assurance Act in 1705 of the Supplements. To this end, there is an additional or amendment tabled by Mrs Maurer, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an additional amendment to Rule 5. Whoever is in favour of this request, may give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Rädler: Niessl has won!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Red-blue is at the door!]] – We are in a voting process! The next item is the vote on Agenda item 15, on the resolution on the quality of teacher training in the Austrian sign language attached to the Committee's report 1712. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 211.) We come to the vote on item 16 on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1713 on measures to increase the proportion of men in pedagogical professions. Who agrees to this request? The request was adopted unanimously. (E 212.) 17. [[17:25:18]] Point report of the Committee on Education on the Government template (1665, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries on the promotion of primary education and education measures to re-establish compulsory schooling for the years 2018 to 2021 (1706 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17962	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I ask for a little more peace in the room, second of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that only four speakers have spoken and then a vote will be taken again immediately. First of all, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e17989	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! This Article 15a agreement is the right and important measure to give people a second or third chance. Unfortunately, up to 1 million Austrians have shortcomings in reading, writing and computing. This, in turn, leads to massive restrictions in their lives, especially in the labour market. Most of them do not even have a positive degree of compulsory schooling. There is already an agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder for the period 2012 to 2017, so that basic education and compulsory schooling can be recovered. The results have so far been very positive: 13 600 persons participated free of charge in basic education courses. 5 800 were able to make up for compulsory schooling. Now there is again a proposal for the years 2018 to 2021, which is important and that is also true. During the next funding period, 18 000 people will benefit from the acquisition of basic education and 9 000 will benefit from the resurgence of compulsory education. For this purpose, € 72.6 million is planned, half of the federal government and the countries. There are now also innovations, which are positive; on the one hand, these concern the extension of the funding period from 3 years to 4 years, and on the other hand, the total funding amount is increased from 75 million to 111 million €. There is also the possibility in the basic education programme that child care may be considered as eligible costs. This will make it possible to address women affected, but also men with child care obligations. Personally, I have to say quite honestly, of course, it would be preferable to have these agreements, not these measures, but to work on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18022	Next, Mr El Habbassi.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18044	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We would all like to see every child in Austria, when it is 15 years old, having a compulsory education degree and later completing a training. Unfortunately, reality looks different, and therefore it is good that we look forward to have agreed on the obligation to provide training up to 18. It is a concern to all of us that these young people can still get a chance and reclaim their degree or that people who do not have a certain basic training get it. That's a necessity. It is about learning skills, autonomous learning, learning, skills in German, not for people who do not have German as a mother tongue, but for those who simply have difficulties in reading and writing, because it is about basic competence in other languages, as it is about calculating, it is about basic knowledge in information technology. These are things that are simply the basis for taking a foothold at the workplace in order to be able to live a self-determined and self-responsible life. This is a great concern for all of us. We also know that about 50 percent of unemployed persons do not have compulsory schooling and are therefore often unable to obtain themselves, and that is why this programme, which has already worked very well in the past and has given thousands of Austrians the opportunity to re-acquire their compulsory schooling or some basic education, is a concern for us. In this sense, I think this is a good thing and should be continued. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18080	Mr. Dr. Walser is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18101	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, Mr El Habbassi, it is in principle a good thing if we help those in need of help, of course I agree. But the problems we have in Austria are far more dramatic. I would like to remind you once again: It is a million people who have shortcomings in key competences: Reading, writing, calculating, that's determined, and we need to help them. Of course, we will agree, of course it is good if we have such a support programme, but I have put in a few bills with which I want to confront you briefly. So far, the funding programme has affected nearly 20,000 people – 20,000 people who have been able to recover basic education that has been able to achieve compulsory schooling. New now is that the program is being increased, almost half, that's very nice. So we're about 30,000 people, but, and the problems start, that's just a drop on the hot stone. [[Abg. Rädler: It's gonna be expensive!]] In fact, it is also a reference to a real disaster that we have in Austria, which has caused the old school system that you want to defend with teeth and claws. My brief account: The budget is planned for exactly 6 750 people per year. A million would need help. If we continue at this pace, we need exactly 148 years for all these people to re-establish their basic education; and the big hook is there: This will not work, either, because, logically, life expectancy is not that high, and 7 000 people add up each year. These are those who leave our school system without being able to read and write meaningfully and who have no further education. So, there is more to it each year than we are promoting with this programme. Education, we all know, is the central aspect if we want to help those who have problems in our society. Education is also the central point if we want to continue with regard to the discharge of our social systems. That would be prevention, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to take decisive steps here. This would help to achieve the rate of crime, which would help what is happening to disease, because people without education are the most vulnerable to disease in our society; and as a third, it would help permanently against social problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Listen More to a man who comes out of your ranks! It's John Kopf who says: It will be decisive whether we are among the best in the field of education. – We must get out of this average trap, ladies and gentlemen, we must have more ambitious goals than what we have here! Yes, we will agree, but no, the problems of the people concerned are not solved, and no, unfortunately, the problems of our society are not solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18147	Next speaker: Mrs Holtinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are extending the federal-state agreement on basic education and post-compulsory school qualifications to help people get into a starting position from which they can first exploit their own potential and not remain in deadlocks. Yes, of course, this is just a retroactive measure, as Mr Walser has already said critically. We are, of course, only gradually weakening a dominant problem, but we have set ourselves the task of in principle abolishing it, even with the decision that was taken some time ago and whose implementation will now begin in July 2017, namely the obligation to train young people and young adults. The aim is not to end schooling with the general schooling requirement, but to pursue a teaching to pursue further training. That is precisely an important measure to better counteract the problem by simply putting it at the root. Our goal is to reduce the dropout ratio of young people and young adults. We want to avoid and prevent the social isolation that hits people and in which they slip. We want to give them qualifications in the key competences, which have also been listed, and thus allow them better access to the labour market, because the budget also from the European Social Fund allows us to increase the number of participants in these basic education courses and the re-enforcement of compulsory schooling. As has already been said, it is possible to increase the extent that has been used so far by almost half the number of around 20,000 people, that is, about 30,000 people can be taken under the arms in the future, and I believe that we can give so many people in Austria a better future. I ask for broad consent. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18211	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Education, the conclusion of the current agreement in accordance with the manner. 15a Federal Constitutional Act in 1665 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:37:28]] 18. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1523, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Constitutional and Residence Law, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Asylum Act 2005, the BFA Procedure Act, the Basic Supply Act – Federation 2005 and the Border Control Act (FREMdenrechtsammengesetz 2017 – FrÄG 2017) (1681 d.B.) 19. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Integration Act (1682, e.g.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 1709/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleagues on ‘DNA fingerprint’ (1685, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18275	We now come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Mr Walter Rosenkranz was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18302	Mr President. Federal Minister Mahrer! On the subject of security policy in Austria, a global amendment to the government coalition – however the state may be present – is available with 96 pages. We have already changed exactly the same legal framework a few weeks ago. Only today did I get a caption: Who else can understand such a thing? It is not at all necessary to understand it, because in reality this proposal with its possibilities is a pure placebo. The real problems are not solved by this, the real problems that are there: Already more than 10,000 so-called refugees – I would say, illegal mass immigrants – have come to Italy, and Italy is already threatening the EU: Help us, or there are other problems! These are the real problems that come to our continent, and only today have I read again in the “Kronen Zeitung”: ‘Reselled drugs for hours after conviction’. “Even a court hearing, including conviction, has not benefited much here. Only hours after two young Afghans had been sentenced for drug trafficking in Graz on Tuesday, have they returned to the police's office for the same crime! The two wanted to sell drugs to civilians." That's how reality looks every day when you look at the newspapers. – We do not want such newspaper articles to be part of the daily life of Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want sexual harassment that rape of women in Austria will become everyday events. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Who wants it!]] We don't want it to come to scenes where 17-year-old Afghan throws his companion from Afghanistan out of the window, which is still pregnant. This is not our view of how to imagine a multicultural society. We don't want that! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] But they do nothing but make laws for it. You're not bringing anything else. The Minister of Justice is there, but the Minister of the Interior is also asking that at last laws be made that have teeth that are not toothless and only lead to more administrative burdens. These laws, as many announcements that are currently being made by the government parties, serve only to spread sand into the eyes of people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to see and implement a change in the actual situation in the security of Austria and our compatriots, there is really only one thing: a change in red-and-white red, and this will only be on the 15th. October happens when the FPÖ is strengthened!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18357	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the present amendment to the Foreign Rights Change Act, another part of the government programme, which was updated in January 2017, is consistently implemented. Unfortunately, the previous item on the agenda did not succeed after the SPÖ broke the coalition. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But here is the implementation, which has also been agreed accordingly. We are concerned with maintaining and ensuring an orderly foreign system and, above all, to force the voluntary and compulsorily extraterrestrial transfer of persons whose international protection has been legally rejected. We have had huge numbers of asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016. [[call to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mayer: Fun bird!]] I believe that if you want to maintain the system, you have to look at the fact that strangers who no longer enjoy protection here leave the country. We have taken another important step with this novel. After asylum on time, after the limitation of family succession, after the closure of the Western Balkans route by Foreign Minister Kurz – very important – another mosaic has been set with the introduction of a capacity-oriented ceiling to limit illegal migration. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Who closed it?- Oh, my God!]] It is now on the agenda as another important measure to close the Mediterranean route, and there too it is Foreign Minister Kurz who is progressing. It would be called on German Chancellor Kern to follow it and not to speak of Holler or the like, but to work for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am submitting to this novel the following change in the overall amendment, namely the amendment concerning a federal law, which amends the Branch and Residence Act, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Asylum Act 2005, the BFA Procedure Act, the Basic Supply Act – the Federal Government 2005 and the Border Control Act (FräG 2017), as amended by the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs (1681 of the Supplements). I am now going to explain the content of this request. The most essential points are to facilitate return and deportations, to extend the thrust and that, without valid residence permits, rejected asylum seekers will have to expect administrative penalties of up to €15 000 in the future, there will no longer be a suspensive effect on negative decisions of the Federal Administrative Court, so that asylum procedures can be ensured more quickly and efficiently. Voluntary return opportunities are also created. In addition, a residence limit may be imposed and accommodation arranged in a specific quarter. It is established that the Federal Return Offices should be used if the asylum procedure and the conditions of residence no longer apply in order to ensure that the exit takes place accordingly. The non-profit activities will be extended to other local authorities, local authorities and NGOs, and the ICT Directive and the seasonal worker directive will be amended. I should also like to make the following second amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This corrects an editorial mistake. I would ask you to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e18464	I may add the following to the Federal Code, whose number Mr Hammer has read as a Roman XX: The “XX” does not represent a number, but serves as a placeholder for a number not yet available. - So that's his order. The amendments are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e22946	The next speaker is Mrs Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e22967	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! - He's just behind me. - Dear Members! Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! I would like to start with a few words from this big sharpening package: Residence restrictions, accommodation arrangements, residence conditions, territorial restrictions, tripled fines for people without residence permits, return, extended delay for up to 18 months, a flexible in certain cases, and so on. What this package wants to tell us or potentially protection-seeking people is: We don't want you, don't come here as far as possible, and if you're here, we'll try to get rid of you as soon as possible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What would be useful instead? What would be sustainable instead? – For example, it would be much more sustainable to combat refugee and people seeking protection. For example, it would be much more sustainable to limit arms trafficking massively, because with the weapons that are also produced here with us, refugees are made elsewhere. It would be much more sustainable to implement climate action together with other countries in order to avoid any more climate refugees, because if climate change becomes stronger and people stand there, even tightening packages like this will not do anything, because protection seekers will not break up in air. What would be more sustainable? – It would be possible to achieve more sustainable, faster and better asylum procedures. The staff for asylum issues has been greatly increased in recent years. This is to be welcomed, and we support it. At the same time, however, you change the Asylum Act at least every six months, and this additional staff employed to deal with asylum procedures faster and better must go into new training every few months, because the law has already been changed again. The last intensification package – I would like to remind you – is not even half a year ago, and you are coming with the new one. Why? – To make your symbolic policy, to say, we have now tripled the penalties. [[Abg. Rädler: We live in a fast-paced time!]] But you already have to let the thought come to mind: If a person cannot pay a fine of €5,000 so far, he will not pay the tripled penalty of €15 000. So it was just a show on the part of the government to say: Yeah, we're going there with iron fist, we're restricting, sharpening and kicking people out! Reality doesn't seem like it. If we do not fight against refugee issues if we do not consistently support another international trade policy with which we do not break the food market, for example, in African countries with our promoted products from the European Union and become unemployed for thousands of African farmers, who then set themselves on the move, first of all to the nearest city, then perhaps to the neighbouring country and later to the European Union much- easily... – Yes, I will tell you in detail when I finish my speech, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. Eßl: Which promoted products? Tell me a sponsored product!]] [[Abg. Eßl: Which promoted products?- Oh, my God!]] You don't seem to know, and I'm surprised. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] Sustainable policy would mean fighting the causes of escape and the causes of forced migration and not setting out mean measures, doubling and tripled punishments, where the current penalty cannot be paid and in most cases is not paid. In this sense, I am pleased that Parliament and Parliamentaryism have now come to terms with the fact that the SPÖ can clearly consider acting differently in Parliament. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Give yourself a back for a sustainable asylum and migration policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23048	The next speaker is Mr Pendl – please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23069	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! As always, when it comes to sensitive issues, especially as regards the right of foreigners or similar legal bodies, there is always excitement. However, I would like to begin by, Mrs Korun, for the most part I do not know – with all my understanding of the global difficulties that exist on this planet – that all our efforts are always going in the direction: We need a solution that comes to us those who are entitled to come to us, and that those who have been negatively decided on by us in accordance with a rule of law are invited and supported, Minister – there are several procedures and procedures – that they return to their home countries. It's nothing else. Now I can always talk it all in the ground, but it won't be better. [[Abg. Scherak: Exactly!]] Instead, we have an obligation to resolve these issues in the interests of the general state and of citizens. I know we're already in the election campaign. I could make it easy and say to some: Well, if someone broke the coalition, it was your foreign minister. If one has not achieved the return agreements in recent years... – Well, it is still an external matter and not an internal affairs. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: It has nothing to do with it!]] I have defended three Ministers of the Interior of your party, because it was not their matter, but always one of the foreign offices, and there they have not done it. Let's leave the church in the village! - I'm not doing it anyway. I'm just saying you could. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to ask you: I believe that the colleagues in the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum and also in the police departments, our police officers, are really doing great things. I am not prepared to say thank you personally and on behalf of my group. I should also like to thank all NGOs who are always committed to these issues, because I believe we have had a good relationship, Minister, and in the difficult situations we have seen to solve them. To Mr Rosenkranz – he is not here now, I will tell him after the meeting –: I have experienced many things in these years in which I have had the honour of belonging to this house. I look at – if we renegotiate this law, which I really see positive – what will happen here in discussions and contradictions until there is a law. These are the structures that we already have to know, and it only shows how quickly we act as legislators and also the administration react to the constantly changing processes of the world. We have to react! Therefore, there are a lot of novels and adaptations. I don't want to thank all the experts either. The story is not new. We have partly discussed at Question Time for 1 months, at Question No 2, I don't know how long. Keywords: Hearing, professionals, experts. I think in the end it has become a good decision, and I invite you all, in the interests of the matter – let's leave the election day alone! – to give your consent to this law in the interests of our Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23131	The next speaker is Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23150	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Yeah, we're living in a fast-paced time. But that still doesn't help, if you're going to show you how to deal with it. [[Federal Minister Sobotka: Well!]] – Wait, Minister, there are also positive things that I will still address! Unfortunately, it is often the case in the area of asylum and xenophobia that we are very often innovative and can hardly be achieved in the final effect. Korun, Rosary and Scherak agree on this – which is normally a practically unholy alliance in connection with asylum and foreign law. The fact is that de facto is no longer feasible. Secondly, the question of whether new solutions will lead to any objective. Now, in this foreign law amendment law, you also have some things that we can agree with, because it makes sense to take measures, such as when it comes to the arrangement for accommodation, the restrictions on residence and the conditions of residence. If they continue to help a lot, there is another question. In reality, we know from many opinions that it is not the case that many asylum seekers move to another federal country in basic care. Okay, you can arrange it so that it should not be allowed at all in the future, but it's already that nobody usually moves on. The problem here is that we have no legal protection, because it is a requirement that should be without notice – however, it is a part to which you can at least agree. What we have criticized or have always called for is a sensible residence obligation for recognised refugees, where they receive social benefits. This would allow us to address the major issues of integration policy, because the main problem is that, if they are in minimum security, recognised refugees usually move very quickly towards Vienna, because there is a higher degree of minimum security, which means that we have an internal migration, which of course does not make any particular sense. No sense at all – if you read through the opinions – makes the automatic detection procedure in the case of an indictment collection that you want now. It is difficult for two reasons: Firstly, it contradicts the presumption of innocence, which lawyers and the judicial association have also noted. Secondly, of course, it is not particularly useful for the people of the economy, because we are going to give the administrative courts a lot of work, and if there is no final condemnation, there has been a long and costly withdrawal process – which the Court of Auditors also noted – and it is not really helpful to us. As far as the threats of punishment are concerned, it is similar, not only because the settlement is extremely unlikely. I understand the intention to say that someone who gives false information must also be punished accordingly. This intention can be shared. Whether it helps to raise the penalty threats up to €10,000 up to €15 000, and whether people who have fled and have no financial means at their disposal that can really be paid, I dare doubt. [[Federal Minister Sobotka: Penalty of replacement!]] But what is much worse and again leads to a higher financial burden are replacement sentences – thank you, Minister, for giving me the keyword. Then who pays for a replacement penalty? – At the end of the day, this also pays again the taxpayer, the taxpayer. It will most likely cost us more, and if we are served with it, I dare doubt. Coming to the end: It is still not clear what is happening to those who have not been given a suspensive effect resulting from basic care. I also understand that you want to say, in principle, that we need to set a clear sign here. If they leave basic care, the probability of slipping into homelessness is very high. Whether this is to be the goal of the whole and to serve us with it, I dare to doubt too. What we really need – and this has already been mentioned by most of the opposition speakers – is a comprehensive innovation of asylum and foreign law, so that it can finally be implemented again and the people who are busy in it can do it seriously, so that it is also made easier for the authorities. – You don’t do that, you change it every six months! We will agree to parts, as I consider a few things to be useful. In third reading, we cannot agree because there are also sham solutions and the great throw that we finally need to have a meaningful right of asylum and of foreigners has not been addressed again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23200	The next speaker is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23221	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a rule of law, and in such a state we live, law must not only be spoken but also implemented. Asylum status is tested individually for each individual in an expensive, lengthy, multi-stage and therefore also costly procedure. If such an asylum procedure gives a negative indication, then the resulting consequences must also be implemented. If that does not pass, the rule of law loses its credibility. Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Rights Change Act is to be and will be a strong engine to speed up the independent departure of rejected asylum seekers in the future, because in the past unfortunately a opposite trend has been used. This is a fatal development that we certainly cannot accept. I am sure that we will speed up foreign supply by means of the Foreign Rights Change Act. What are the main points of this novelle? – We heard it today: In order to facilitate repatriation and deportations, it is planned to extend the thrust. Those who reside illegally in the country and do not leave Austria must expect administrative penalties of up to €15 000. If a rejected asylum seeker does not take part in his departure, then he loses basic care, and during the asylum procedure a residence restriction may be imposed on the state responsible for basic care. And finally, Those who give false information on entry will also be punished harder. In my opinion, these are all the useful measures that will help to bring back rejected asylum seekers. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, we have to keep in mind. Mrs. Korun, I'm glad you're still here. You only need to look at Italy, Mrs Korun, where 10,000 refugees from Africa have been landed and picked up in the last 48 hours. The Italian authorities are moaning under the burden, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Korun: These are people!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Many died!]] Many died. Since the beginning of the year alone, 80 000 migrants have arrived in Italy. This is almost 15 percent more than in the comparison period 2016. Now to say that the closure of the Mediterranean route is a grandeur, ladies and gentlemen, for this I lack any understanding, but absolutely any understanding! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Please, where are you living? Which country do you live in? [[New call of the abg. Korun.]] We have to take the necessary steps, and Minister of the Interior Sobotka is very grateful for this committed foreign law law. It is high time to close the Mediterranean route, because the high migration pressure will not decrease – on the contrary! [[Abg. Korun: I said that!]] He's not getting any less. With this novel, we are making the law more efficient. After asylum on time, after the limitation of family succession, after the introduction of the capacity-oriented ceiling, this Act on Foreign Rights is another indispensable mosaic to dampen illegal migration to Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23309	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23331	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I think you have to find out a little bit about this. I agree with my previous speakers that the right of foreigners in Austria is now so complicated and complex that it is no longer really readable for experts. Now, if we look at this change in the right of foreigners: These are again 96 pages that are added or changed, so this is already a decent pack and extremely difficult to carry out and to interpret. It certainly belongs reformed, one has to say quite clearly, and there we would of course be from the Stronach team for that. On the subject of foreign law or on these amendments, I would like to start a different approach here: We had on this issue in the Committee on the Interior a week or two ago – the time is passing quickly! – a hearing with Exper-ten. I asked an expert from the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum whether he believed that this law should now be implemented better, i.e. whether he believes that more people who are illegal in Austria could now be postponed as a result of this change of law. He answered something interesting, namely that two bosses of him were there, Mr Mag. Diver, that is the head of the BFA, and the Minister of the Interior, and that he is not speaking for his job now, but the point is that he believes that no one will be postponed anymore, for the following reason – and there you have to sharpen your ears once –: because no one who does not want to be pushed off or not consented to be pushed off. That means that only a voluntary return, using lockers, works, otherwise nothing at all. There are no forced deportations; they do not exist, and one has to say that clearly. That means that everyone who comes to Austria and wants to stay here, no matter what he has broken, remains in Austria. I think there's something very wrong in the law, ladies and gentlemen, and you have to address that. As I am now on this subject: Minister of the Interior, dear ÖVP! You guys got excited earlier because the SPÖ seems to have broken the coalition. [[Abg. Wenninger: It's not true!]] Now we are always talking about the free play of the forces, and then there is your future party observer, Mr. Kurz, who has taken up many things that have been brought by me into various committees – including requests. [[Abg. Wenninger: Now we know how he has all this!]] He also wants to implement the following request, I quote from a press release dated 6. January 2017, in which the following is quite clear – I read to you briefly –: ‘Short: Returns to reception camps in Africa In the meantime, the “Australia” proposal for the return of migrants to reception camps outside the EU made in the previous year tightened. The “Image” newspaper (Sunday edition) he said that these “capture centres” in North Africa and the Middle East should also bring back rejected asylum seekers. It was a ‘development’ of the Minister’s long-known plans, confirmed a spokesman of the APA on demand.” Ladies and gentlemen! I've been making a request for over two years, and I'm going to make it back now. Now the ÖVP has the opportunity, as it were, to break the coalition in order to implement a statement from its future party observer in short, by realizing these reception longerers, whom I have always called for, so that people who have received a negative asylum notice in Austria can be brought to a close with their procedures and who have nothing to look for here in Austria, even outside the country. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So now we're going to make the short test, ladies and gentlemen. If you, the new EIA, are speaking, then you have to read what your future party observer has said in the press release – you can read it again in the motion for a resolution, and there is nothing else in my motion for a resolution – and so accept this request. I think you'll get a majority, because with the FPÖ, with the Stronach team and with the ÖVP, that's going to be done, and then you've really done something that makes sense and is feasible. That's important, I think. To the text of the law or to the law proposed by you: Yes, we will agree because certain measures are inside, which I believe are an improvement, and all improvements in this area – in which the Federal Government has been very, very negligent in recent times, what is falling to the head of the people of Austria – are good, and we will therefore support them. Now I would like to address another point – three agenda items are being discussed – namely the request made by the colleague, Mr Donk, to establish DNA for male asylum seekers. Ladies and gentlemen! Some colleagues in the committee have said that it is a populist request. Now I'll explain something to you! There was a recent rape in Linz, probably by several asylum seekers; there were accordingly looking persons. These people have a girl in an asylum home, dragged into the basement and raped there several times. The asylum seekers have escaped, because none of the perpetrators were in this building, but it is assumed that they used to live in it. We have no data, nothing of them! But if you had a DNA print, you might well find out who these people are. They still run around freely today and can serve themselves again, ladies and gentlemen, and this belongs to a bar provided. That's where you have to deal with all the hardness. You know the newspaper reports, you know the media reports, there are ongoing rape attempts, ongoing rapes, at the Danube Island Festival and, and, and. I have to say quite clearly that we also need to think about minimum penalties in this area, ladies and gentlemen, not only should we think about it, but we should do it. You have to do this, and that is what the courts are responsible for, and I want to deposit it. If people get away with any warnings or with minimal penalties, then the punishment has lost its deterrent effect, and then everyone can make fun of it. Ladies and gentlemen! So I do not imagine a rule of law, and I appeal to those responsible to act quickly to improve the conditions so that we can live again in a free, carefree, beautiful Austria and do not have to fear if we go in front of the door. I think there's a lot to do, and now I'm going to ask you: Voices You have made this request, then you have taken a huge step towards better Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23411	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23491	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23512	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Rights Change Act is for one placebo, for the other, an intensification package. That is why I am concerned that we may be putting out two principles, namely, that all those who flee to Austria from war, civil war, persecution, receive protection and assistance from us as part of our possibilities, and that those who receive protection and assistance from us will take part in the integration measures and actually stick to our democratic, rule of law and world-wide way of life. If we reject these two points, we can raise the discussion to a different level. I now come to the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Hagen. What the Stronach team gives us as a farewell show is not possible. We have discussed this in detail in the Committee. Do you really believe that you can stop with walls, with any barriers to people fleeing because they have no opportunity to exist economically and socially in their countries? On the contrary! We must fight against the causes of escape, we must change the economic and social conditions in these countries in solidarity. There are many tasks, especially for Austrian foreign policy, and then some things that now burden us would not be necessary. Please – I’m giving you the chance from the Stronach team, I told you that in the committee – please withdraw this request! You can't suspect a human group, all male asylum seekers, refugees over 14 years of age, on a flat-rate basis. This contradicts any rule of law, which is contrary to our constitution. We have a legal system in which groups cannot be condemned on a flat-rate basis. Once again, the appeal to the Team Stronach – you don't come to Parliament anymore, you don't need it either –: Withdraw this displeasure! But finally, because Italy is mentioned again and again: I had a few weeks ago opportunity to visit the EU hotspot in Pozzallo. What the municipality, the region of Ragusa, the Italian state is doing with the help of the European institutions, is exemplary. Before all of us copy what we read in any media, how Italy deals with the refugees: Heeding respect for the Italians, who are really facing enormous challenges there and who are happy to accept European support. Austria is also actively represented there. I believe that this refugee care system, registration, as it works in Sicily with EU support, needs to be further developed. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23552	Next speaker: Mr Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23573	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to replicate the comments made by Mr Weninger. We would be glad if he and the SPÖ were to be interested in the needy Austrian population in this way. To what Mr Ertlschweiger said: One is true, some 80 000 migrants have been saved in Italy since the beginning of the year after having been picked up off the African coast. In my view, this is an blatant failure of European foreign and security policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus, it is only a question of the time when the next wave of migration will pass over us. And here I ask myself the question: What's the government doing? – In reality, nothing useful. Why? – For ten years now we have the 20th. Foreign law novels. The law is unclear, unenforceable, and it will not, above all, bring faster procedures or more foreign transfers. I tell you why, Minister: The problem is not the minority of those asylum seekers who have actually been persecuted, because it is in their interest that they comply with the legislation – they will therefore also be accessible and the authority will have access – the problem is, rather, the majority of those who have fled for so long until they have finally arrived in the promised country of Austria and, in the guise of false facts: Asylum!, call for them to fall into the social hammock. That's the problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must be aware that to achieve this objective, they use and make excessive use of any appeal, often with the help of our good people and also of the Green, colleague Korun. They are very well advised what is available to them, even if they are illegal. Now I give you an example of the practice, because you should also see how the police working BFA. Like Mr Pendl, I think: You really have to thank them for doing so under these conditions. What is reality? – The BFA wants to issue a cargo notice; the receiver is not tangible. The letter is coming back. The person concerned is not here. The police'll make an extra attempt again. - He can't be found again. Request from the Central Registration Register: Must be there. The police are personally sent. He's not there, he's submerged. The act goes back. Now let's assume that this one is found after a few months and claims after good advice: Well, there must be a lack of delivery. The Authority starts from the beginning, checks the delivery deficit and is not a step further. What will he do if sometime after years of opposition succeeds, whether in the foreign police procedure or in the asylum procedure, that one really has a notice that is legal and enforceable? – Well, it will be subverted and not tangible to the authority, and the game will start from the beginning again. It is not the case that you will achieve something with a territorial restriction or with the granting of a residence order or even with higher penalties which the person cannot pay anyway. A little tip, Minister: If you would grant benefits to the asylum seekers in kind and make them, for example, only locally recoverable, you would not have the problem at all. We don't have a shortage of extras, we don't need that. You could do that. If you were to extend the thrust grounds for danger of escape according to § 76 Foreign Police Act, for example, if we take someone who is not willing to give information about his identity into custody immediately, then we have him for the procedure. [[Federal Minister Sobotka: This is not according to the law!]] - Yes, then we have to change it. That's what we're here for. And that's why I'm saying, The law is an attempt that is incomplete, and it would have been nice to finally make nails with heads and reorganize aliens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23622	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23643	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the current Law on Foreign Affairs is very successful in finding the necessary compromise and means to effectively enforce existing foreign rights and obligations in the future. After completing a fair asylum procedure, it is a matter of ensuring that implementation is implemented accordingly, and here we define the participation of the foreigners in a better and new way, because there are not only rights in this area, but also obligations that need to be respected. In the sense of domestic case law, it is also a matter of being able to carry out necessary returns quickly; for how should we explain to people in this country that laws must be observed if, on the other hand, perhaps a small group manages to distance itself from them with any unfair means? I believe that the obligation to participate and the sanctions to do so, such as restrictions on residence, are important. These are simple measures, which are also understood beyond the borders of Austria, and this is a very important point in this area. Mr. Christoph Hagen, for this reason we cannot accept the wording of the motion for a resolution because if such camps outside the EU are to be only for those with a negative asylum notice, that is too little. It's crucial that we lay the craftsman down! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is only possible to lay down the craftsmanship if it is possible to actually close the Mediterranean route, so to speak, that people will be supplied to the south accordingly. This will cost us all the money we have to take into our hands. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It also costs us money when they come here!]] That is to say, not in the Mediterranean, but in advance, to provide and accommodate accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am good things: Like many times in the past, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern will be very quick on the right line of Sebastian Kurz in a few weeks or months on the question of closing the Mediterranean route.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23695	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23716	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To Mr Weninger, who has now gone out, I would just have said one more sentence: You know – towards SPÖ – the first to make this proposal in 2004 was German SPD Minister of the Interior Otto Schily, so that we can understand ourselves properly. He's not quite unknown to you. So as inhuman as you do, and as terrible as you do, it's not to say: Outside the EU, there is a need for shelter. That's exactly what it took, and if you took it seriously, we would have. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No matter who sits in the back there as Minister of the Interior – this is nothing against you personally, that also concerns your predecessors –: [[towards Federal Minister Sobotka]] We have been doctors around here for ten years! There are some novels several times a year. Let's fix it a little bit, we'll fix it there a little bit. We awaken the appearance as if we made something more stringent – change does not really do anything at all! You know, Mr Federal Minister, that reminds me of another law we have here, namely the wage and social dumping law. That's exactly the same thing: There is also a bit of a doctrine, one is trying to raise the appearance here as if one were to carry out reforms – with nothing to do! Making your new law You do nothing but now try to push the people through the back door into the work process. They have to be available for the procedure! Not the asylum seekers have to be on the labour market, because we will not be for it. The opening of asylum seekers has already been given in part. That is the completely wrong approach. Mr. Prince, you have spoken in front of me, I do not know where you are now. [[Abg. Prince: Here I am!]] - Okay, yeah. You said it needed a legal-compliant asylum procedure – yes, we are here with you – but on the other hand, you open everything up. They open the year of integration without asylum procedures, this is about asylum seekers – and this is literally in the legislative text – with good prospects for asylum. Well, where's the legal proceedings? – So that's all you're doing here! They proceed according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't wet me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At last there was a need for a rethinking in this right of foreigners! We need a new law, a completely new one, because in reality no one can read it anymore. This law is no longer enforceable for officials. [[Federal Minister Sobotka: No!]] This is already so complicated by the many reforms. That is to say, one should also have the courage to re-establish a proper foreign law. I just have the impression that you both do not want this because you do nothing but client policy. You still want to move, because you need refugees for your NGOs, and you still want the unbridled move, because you need the cheapest workers for the IV. That's the main reason why it's not going on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One more word, Minister of State, on deportations and extraditions: I ask you with a certain regularity every month the question of how many foreign supplies we had. There I read in the section on outland transfers and voluntary leave on voluntary leave – results sorted by nationality –: In the top place are Serbs, then Romanians, then Hungary, Macedonians and so on. Don't be angry with me, but: What does an EU citizen have to do with a voluntary leave? Every month, we have EU citizens who give you statistics so you can say: We have so many voluntary leaves.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23790	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23811	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear colleague! Estimated colleague! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! ==References== In June, we carried out a hearing in the Committee on the Interior, in which we dealt with the first part of the Foreign Rights Amendment Act; but also the overall amendment tabled by my colleague Hammer, part two of the change in the foreign law, we discussed there and discussed it with the experts. There have already been many reports today that it is not readable that it would not be all right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that if you make adaptations, these legal foundations are reviewed by the highest courts. There are therefore high court decisions as to why such decisions have been made by the Authority. We have clearly received in the hearing the information that constitutional conformity is given in the law. At the same time, we have adapted to the highest judicial jurisdiction and Union law requirements accordingly. In certain areas – yes, ladies and gentlemen – we have made it easier for students and start-ups by extending to one year instead of six months. At the same time, however, in the Foreign Employment Act, we have also defined exactly the conditions when this is possible. – That was very important to us. Ladies and gentlemen! But we have also expanded the powers of the police: Entry into force for a plot, for establishments, for workshops and so on. We have also carried out individual intensifications – restriction of basic supply – but also provided the opportunity to carry out non-profit work in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, if you have read through the law – and you have now brought an example from Linz – you also know that this novelle has been used to initiate an asylum detection and to carry out if the person has been caught in a crime on a fresh act or an indictment has been collected. This shows that we are going in the right direction. Much has already been said about flexibility. I would just like to give an example of why we have put in place certain forced measures – territorial restrictions, obligations of participation and so on: At the hearing, the specialist has us, Director Mag. Diver, reports how difficult it is when a person has to be taken out of the country to be animated to make an application to get a travel document. It can already be seen that measures are necessary in order to be able to do so in accordance with the law. I'm looking for broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23856	Next speaker: Mr Lasar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e23878	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a word to my previous speaker: But you know very well that we had invited experts to the hearing in committee. Also your expert and the expert of the Greens, all the experts have unanimously assured us nothing but that the work is no longer tradable. [[Abg. Not everyone!]] - Everyone said that, you can read it. Everyone said it unanimously: This law belongs back to the start, new innovation, because in reality no one knows itself anymore. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You don't know any judges or lawyers and lawyers, and you know that very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Come now It's because everyone knows each other – it just doesn't know anyone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I told you. Maybe I should still like you. Citing Thomas Gruber, the judge at the Federal Administrative Court: He has clearly said that this important law must provide clear and clear statements. – That is, back to the start to complete renegotiations and thus to a recast of the foreign law. Otherwise, no one will ever know. These are the facts. I would like to make another statement to you, including Mr Mag. Thomas Gruber, with regard to the renewal of the visa for particularly considerationable reasons according to § 22a. What did he tell us? – Mr Federal Minister, this is important: Without a reason and with no objective need, another possibility will be created to allow people under the title of humanitarian reasons for entry and asylum. Now tell me: What have you improved? – After all, you have made the law worse, and nothing else. I can only tell you, it's flickwork, it's exactly that. Outside, you always announce – like Mr Kurz's Federal Minister – what you want to do to change everything, but nothing happens, because here you decide exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, now you have the opportunity to support Mr Kurz in this law. If you do not, you are just as Mr Kurz is a minister of announcement, who actually says something outside and is doing the exact opposite here. I think in the sense of that, I can only say: I hope for broad support, including from your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24003	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lasar is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24245	Next word: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24266	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The current discussion shows: Firstly, the catalogue of measures is too little, and the others to a certain extent too much. The fact is: We need consistency and order throughout the refugee theme, but we also need fairness and protection. With this today's foreign rights amendment package, we have gained practical experience from the past weeks and months. New powers are needed, new opportunities are needed to be prepared for the current case on the one hand, and on the other hand, we can face future challenges in this area together. Especially when returning, whether voluntarily or legally rejected persons, more opportunities are needed, and these are available with the new package. The police also need powers in terms of building, property and premises, and also in the search of premises. All in all, the Federal Minister has presented here a law, a novel in order to get the foreign law policy under control to counter illegal migration. We need to be prepared for the serious case. We need a faster and more efficient execution, and this package will make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24297	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24318	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The new law – Mr Gahr has referred to it –: For one, it's too much, for the other it's too little. I do not think it can be strict enough for the security of the population of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weninger mentioned that this DNA fingerprint from the motion for a resolution by, I think, Mr Donk is simply not the right approach. He is necessary, Mr Weninger, because the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population is falling, Mr Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] In particular, rapes leave not only physical impairments but serious psychological injuries that cannot be remedied. You don't like that either! These perpetrators belong to the hardest punished, and there must be no millimeters of room. It is therefore very important and necessary that prevention measures be put in place to combat crime. It is perfectly correct what the motion for a resolution says: Prevention – and prevention includes a DNA fingerprint on the entry of male asylum seekers into Austria. I have a different opinion than you, Mr Wenninger. [[Abg. Wenninger: I'm proud of that!]] This approach would have a dissuasive effect, and we would urgently need this: dissuasive effect! We all know that there are problems with a normal fingerprint. In the event of an injury or a wanted change in the fingertip, Mr. Wenninger, existing data can no longer be compared and used. [[Abg. Wenninger: And the asylum seekers don't have any fingers?]] - I didn't say that. In order to protect the domestic population, Mr Weninger, especially many women and young women, such a procedure would be a real step towards security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24374	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24395	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is undisputed that migration will continue to accompany us in the future. But it's also clear: If everything remains the same as it is now, then more will come across the Mediterranean, then more will die. We don't want that, we don't want it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why this Mediterranean route has to be closed, and our great goal must be to combat the refugee situation on the ground. To combat the refugee situation on the ground, it needed cooperative states, to do so requires development cooperation, possibly also pressure on these countries, which is certainly not easy. [[Abg. Wenninger: Make a suggestion!]] But you have to do that, you have to work on it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But it also says: We also need to solve these problems on the spot and here with us. You have to look at this fact. There is nothing to beautify, but nothing to dramatize. So far, there has been no need in many areas to think and discuss certain issues, including in principle, as in the case of: Do all the laws of the Republic of Austria have to be complied with, and in what way are they enforced? – If the state can no longer enforce its laws, it will be problematic. Is it possible to escape the enforcement of a law with no time? For example, if a person is unable to determine his origin, speaks nothing or does not participate in obtaining a home travel certificate, a passport, if it is not possible to establish his identity, because he makes false information, then of course the question arises: Are there laws in which the state can afford that it does not insist on its enforcement? – Just the question of who is in the state territory, who is allowed to stop and who is not, and above all who is, is a very basic – also and especially in the interest of those who have obtained a right of residence. This Foreign Rights Change Act creates the conditions for enforcement. There are consequences when rejected asylum seekers do not take part in the exit. There are consequences if an asylum seekers simply do not speak in the language register. The aim is to increase the return rate at the end. This law closes the gap, which is why I also seek approval. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24446	No one has made any mention of this any more. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote, which, as always, takes place separately from each of the Committee's requests. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Draft Amending Law 2017 in 1523 of the Supplements. Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a total amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Scherak on the above-mentioned amendment amendment. Therefore, we shall first vote on the parts concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, each as a whole, in the version of the amendment as a whole. We shall be voting separately on this draft law, as amended by the amendments tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Z 82 to 90, Art. 3 C 4 and Art. 5 Z 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Those who support this draft law, title and receipt in 1523, as amended by the remaining parts of the amendments which have not yet been voted on, I would ask for a sign to be given to the amendments tabled by Members Pendl, Amon, colleagues. – In turn, this is the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees with the draft law in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the establishment of EU-Wartecamps in North Africa for persons with negative asylum status. Who agrees to this request? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need to comment on the voting process. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the implementation of the foreign policy of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Who agrees to this request? – This is, in turn, the minority, the request is rejected. Agenda item 19: Draft Federal Act amending the Integration Act in 1682 of the Supplements. Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Members Pendl, Amon, colleagues have an amendment concerning § 27 para. 4 to be introduced. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who agrees? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority, and thus the draft law is adopted at third reading. Agenda item 20 vote Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1685 of the supplements. Who agrees? – In turn, this is the majority and therefore adopted. [[18:43:19]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1612, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on International Police Cooperation (Polizeikooperationsgesetz – PolKG) (1683 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1674, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the EU Police Operations Act (EU-POLKG) and the Federal Office for Corruption Prevention and Corruption (BAK-G) (1684, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24624	We therefore come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda, which are being debated under a debate. There was no oral reporting. I would draw attention to the fact that only three speakers have spoken and a vote will be taken later. First speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24654	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! These two legislative proposals are mainly concerned with two points. The first point brings relief to the police: The criminal police don't have to have 100 person warrants every day. In the foreign register and in the central registration register, we review search evidences that we have in Austria, but in the future the automation support can be consulted. The criminal police officer must act only when there is a hit, and can then carry out his work in concrete terms. This results in an efficiency increase in the Austrian criminal police. The second point we are considering today relates to the fight against terrorism. This is mainly about the Foreign Terrorist Fighters. We are now creating an international information network, including in the field of state protection, in which the public security hazards can be included. This will allow us to avoid terrorist attacks more easily or more in the future, because the data among the state-guards in Europe, speak in all European Union states plus Norway and Switzerland, are now processed and available in support of automation. Thank you very much for this work. Thank you very much for the Austrian police who are putting up this fight against crime and terrorism. Thank you very much to the Minister of the Interior for this work.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24691	Next speaker: Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Advisors and See you here and at home! The fight against terrorism and the fight against the uncertainty and destabilisation of our democracies in Europe is not only a command of the hour now, but it will also be in the coming years. One has shown the attacks in recent years: If the exchange of information between the police authorities and the intelligence services had been a better or easier one, we could have pulled some terrorists out of traffic before. That is what I am sure of, and therefore I am very glad that today we are taking a step in the right direction with this innovation to the Police Cooperation Act and expressly creating a legal basis for the participation of Austrian security authorities in international information networks. So far, there has been only the Schengen information system as an exchange option. With this novel, we're going one step further. In particular, we are concerned with bringing together data and analyses to facilitate the identification of so-called hazards, i.e. persons who may pose a serious risk to public security. The aim of this enhanced cooperation between EU countries and other European countries is to prevent and defend terrorist acts. The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism will be responsible for participating in the database and will also be provided with planning posts. I think that these human resources are being used properly and efficiently for the benefit of our citizens. Another point would be very important in this context: I can speak from my own experience how difficult and time-consuming the exchange of data and information between the police authorities is. The new law allows for automated queries in warrants, in the central reporting register and in the foreign register, to be carried out in the event of the introduction of personal security information from abroad, ............................................................................................................................................................ We know that there are now more than 100 requests per day and that they will not be less in the future. That is why this novelle is more than necessary. As always, when it comes to data exchange, it is necessary to continue to have accurate control of data protection and to ensure that data protection is maintained in the future. I hope that a broad agreement will be reached and I also expect it from this House in the interests of security in our Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24760	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24779	Mr President. Federal Minister! My previous speakers have already mentioned the fact that an essential need in the fight against terrorism is, of course, the exchange of data at European level. We know that most of the terrorists in recent months and years have always been known policely and that the biggest problem was that the exchange of information did not work. Mr Schabhüttl has already mentioned it correctly: Of course, what must never go wrong is the fundamental right to data protection. I see a number of problems in this draft government. We have already discussed this in committee. Mr Federal Minister, I think that as far as data protection is concerned, we are not yet where we should go. Nevertheless, unlike the Committee, we will now vote in favour, because I think that we must pay great attention to this exchange of information so that we can prevent such cruel terrorist attacks in the future. However, I am telling you that we must have a very important focus on the fundamental right to data protection in this context as well. We need to look at this even more intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24812	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 21. Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on International Police Cooperation, together with the title and receipt in 1612 of the Supplements. Who agrees? - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft Federal Act establishing the EU Police Operations Act and the Law on the The Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption, together with the title and entrance to 1674 of the Supplements. Who agrees? - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. This draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[18:51:18]] 23. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1621, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Rules 1975 (Strafgesetznovelle 2017) (1737 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution 1671/A by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 23 December 1989 was adopted. January 1974 on actions threatened with judicial punishment (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974, amended (1738, e.g.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the 1941/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues, on measures to combat radicalisation of prisoners in prison (1739 d.b.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 2048/A(E) by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues on the approximation of the criminal borders for young adults to those in adults (1740, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24934	We come to points 23 to 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e24962	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the televisions! There are several negotiations under one, on the one hand a government proposal to make changes in criminal law. This is very interesting because we only made a major criminal law novel that had a very long lead period. It could actually be assumed that there is nothing to change in criminal law for some time now, but there seems to be a need for change. The government proposes a few points: On the one hand, sexual integrity should be an essential legal asset. This is something that we are taking along, which is entirely correct, and which corresponds to applications that we have already made. The sexual harassment in the group is unfortunately a phenomenon that has increased in recent years as a result of massive immigration from certain areas of the earth. It is therefore also a necessary consequence to respond to it and to threaten it as particularly objectionable with a higher punishment. There should also be an increased risk of punishment for public transport workers. We also support this, because it is unfortunately also a phenomenon that is increasing and with which these people are particularly confronted; most of it is simply and simply violence. Finally, a new paragraph is introduced in which so-called anti-state movements are to be punished. That sounds very good, but I think it's a little bit like what you often understand as populism, so you're reacting to something and saying: Yes, we do something, we make a new criminal record, because if you change something in criminal law, then you are always on the safe side, because then you have, as it were, put the hardest threat a state can put! The fact is, however, that this is a political offence and thus a criminal of the mind, and that is per se very delicate. In my opinion, it is very unclear and does not hit the black – how to say? – in any case, it is very unclear for a group of persons. We have found that there are about 1,000 people who can be referred to as citizens or freemen, or whatever. These persons undoubtedly have very abstract thoughts, hang very abstract things, conspiracy theories and so on, all of which are hardly comprehensible. But the question is: Do I have to sanction this in criminal law? I'm just quoting: The movement must have the purpose of “containing in a way by which the anti-state orientation manifests itself clearly, unlawfully preventing the enforcement of laws, regulations or other sovereign decisions of the authorities or the enforcement of the presumptuous or alleged sovereign rights.” And so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] There, I think, everyone has gone out. That's the criminal record; it's just, as I said, a criminal offense. We thank God enough to take action against these persons: They threaten to commit body injuries, they do anything that is already sanctioned under normal criminal law. Not least, there have been house searches and a number of arrests in recent months, because one can also deal with these people with the normal criminal provisions without going into the criminal law of the family. It is also peculiar that the individual judge should be responsible, although it is clearly established that, if there are already political offences, jury courts are responsible. So this is systematically not all right, we reject it anyway. Very briefly, unfortunately, the time is very short today, on a request relating to the criminal law which I myself have brought in, which unfortunately is also current and necessary: In this last criminal law novel, among other things, it was introduced that there are young adults, those are the people between the ages of 18 and 21 who are to be punished less because they are in an adolescence crisis. They will only grow up because, in part, there is probably still a large hormone stow, so they are overconfidence and should therefore be punished less. There was a long discussion, we were against it, we rejected it, judges and prosecutors voted against it massively. Now we have that, but now it turns out that of course many of the very unpleasant and particularly striking crimes are committed by precisely these persons. For example, the terrorists in Paris were almost all under 21, which would be less punishable under this criminal law, at a maximum of 15 years for most of the crimes they committed. This is not comprehensible in society, as I believe. Or: The rapist who raped a young boy in the bathroom a few years ago was originally punished at the age of eight. His sentence has now been reduced by the Supreme Court to four years, on the grounds that: Well, young adult, so the threat of punishment is lower, so you stay in the lower third. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unheard!]] So there is no need to criticise justice here if the legislator himself creates the conditions for it. Unfortunately, this is understandable under the given legal provisions, and I am therefore convinced that we need to change something here. Or now again: attempted rape on the Danube Island. First of all, there was no arrest because there was little threat of punishment, young adult. Again: young adult, you can't arrest him. Now the prosecutor's office has responded because it realizes that this is not understood in the population, no one understands it anymore. This is the reason for my request that the threat of punishment for young adults should be re-adjusted to those of adults. I know that after a very short period of time we would be reviewing the change in criminal law, but I think that is necessary because of the conditions given. The population has a concern, that is important, and in all this prevention one must always look at what is really anchored in the population, what the population understands what the population wants. That would be a very useful change in this respect, and I therefore hope that in plenary, perhaps the – unfortunately – rejection will be reversed in committee. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to my request. We will call for a separate vote on other criminal law so that we can also agree with the parts we support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25006	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25028	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is one of the central tasks of criminal law to counteract disturbing developments that are undesirable in our society. These worrying developments include the increasing anti-state movements, the phenomenon of the use of public events by groups for sexual assaults on women, as well as increasing acts of aggression towards officials and towards employees of transport companies. All these developments will be responded to with the anti-criminal novice. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The anti-state movements are movements that reject the sovereignty of the Republic of Austria; think of freemen, sovereign citizens, imperial citizens and cetera. These movements, which have already joined more than 1 100 people throughout Austria, are trying to prevent the enforcement of laws, regulations and other decisions of the authorities. and existing state structures. They reject, for example, the payment of taxes, compliance with laws such as road traffic regulations or various civil legislation. On the other hand, they use their rights, such as in relation to social benefits, very vehemently. As a result, the rejection of the State is little surprisingly less pronounced. In order to prevent the further spread of these movements, the new practice of “unlawful movements” is included in the Criminal Code. Mr Stefan has just criticised the fact that this case is too unclear. To this end, it should be noted that the concerns raised in the review procedure have also been taken into account and a separate, precise definition of the anti-state movements has been made. Such a movement is now only available if the sovereign rights are rejected “roundly” and the objective is the continued unlawful prevention of enforcement or enforcement of presumptuous sovereign rights. It is not enough to recognize individual decisions or to deal critically with political issues, but rather it is not necessary to recognise the rights of sovereignty as a whole. As you can see from the law materials, for example, non-violent protests, demonstrations or other actions that have a critical debate on the subject of politics, the state, politicians or individual decisions of the authorities or try to achieve a rethinking of decisions are not covered by these acts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with your consent, you will allow a moderate response to unwanted developments in the field of crime! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25073	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25094	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! This new criminal law contains several points, which have already been said by a number of previous speakers. I would also like to comment separately, because some of them we share, others we do not share. The fact that we are voting against at the end is that if there are some things that we do not share. There are two points that we share: One thing is that attacks on sexual integrity and self-determination become necessary; that is, if someone is sexually harassed, and if, of course, it is proportionate, that is clear, then it is punishment-free. That's right, we share that. We have always been consistent on the subject of sexual harassment and remain consistent, so we will also agree to the regulations on group harassment, because we already believe that the violation of law is higher when a person is harassed and threatened by a group than by just one person. Of course, it is always rejected, and it is always bad, but it is clear that the problem is of course higher once again when faced with a group, and therefore the injustice of law is more severe to punish. On the topic of citizens of the Reich: You know, Mr Minister, that this group is not close to us and we have no sympathy, but we are opposed to this part of the novel. For us, legal culture is a great asset, and you have once in a different context in an interview said something that did not please me at the time, but which I basically share. They said that criminal law could not be specifically applied to a group. –You will do this now by introducing your own national citizen paragraph. This would not be necessary, however, because criminal law already knows a variety of criminal paragraphs that are applied to citizens, and there are also processes. I'm just calling a few acts – what do we have? –: severe fraud, resistance to state violence, extortion, decriminal counterfeiting, dangerous threat, famine, premise, persistent persecution. – All of these are criminal offences that are applied in connection with citizens of the Reich. We do not need any criminal law specific to individual groups. I also agree that you have responded to our criticism. The first draft poses a certain risk of abuse, which you have limited in so far as I am right about Mr Karl, when there is now a need for a continued rejection of state action. Thus civil disobedience is not covered by this paragraph in individual cases; I hope that this is largely enough to prevent abuse. But it remains a point, and it is crucial to me: This is a form of family criminal law, because the attitude becomes punishable. That's what the explanations say relatively clearly: “It is sufficient, for example, for a person to address inputs to authorities based on this anti-state attitude, to use invented identifications or markings, or to refer to the theories of these movements. that... represents.” – That is, an attitude, a sympathy, of course, coupled with a certain act, leads to criminality. In a democracy, the entry into a criminal law is always a delicate point, whether one fits or does not fit this attitude. In my opinion, there is a attitude that is forbidden by the criminal law, and that is re-activating, relativizing Holocaust crimes under the Prohibition Law. This is the Republic of its history guilty of drawing a red line there. All other opinions must be combated with political counter-argument, and if they exceed the framework of the Criminal Code, as criminal offences generally formulate it, then criminal law shall take effect. Opinion alone, even if one rejects it, is not punishable. I think if you start with the family law, then the question is: Where's the end? Once it's the citizens of the empire, then it's another group. I think there is a piece of legal culture, even if I understand that officials are being harassed by these citizens, no question; but then criminal law is in the form of what exists. These procedures and processes are also being conducted, and I would like to know what this red line is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25146	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25167	Mr President. Federal Minister! In fact, it is a tradition that we can almost say that we decide most of the materials, particularly in the field of criminal law, here in plenary almost unanimously. We're going to get rid of it today, and I'm not so happy about it either. I think that there are a number of materials, which are intended in particular to protect the state that supports and more protect officials, as there are events that stand out from the past, because there are also new currents, new ways of conduct; this concerns, for example, the creatives, who are to receive additional support, and of course, this also applies in connection with the discussion on the right of family punishment, the freeman. We've been talking around for a long time, we've changed the law, I think, three times. There is also a recent comment from the house, after which it is not clear whether in the future it will really be without Further enforceable is the fact that, apart from a family criminal law in this case before the existence of acts already in place, we find action; I assume that the Federal Minister will also say a few words in this respect. It's, I'd say, a challenge. We are convinced that we are creating an improvement here – not with all the greatest security; I would have liked us to find a solution that is carried by a wider majority in the house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25203	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25222	Mr President. Federal Minister! The problem with yet very common StGB novels is that we have been getting the feeling – or at least I get the feeling – that criminal law is no longer used for what it is for, namely, Ultima Ratio. Where we are today taking the sexual integrity of this novel into the catalogue of emergency goods, where we are intensifying the rules on group harassment, there, I believe, it is true, and we are doing so in accordance with the Ultima ratio principle. But there are parts in this novel, which are made for obviously other reasons, partly because it may be medially good to sell. Because Mr Jarolim just mentioned earlier the workmen: Mrs Karl in the committee said something very exciting about this, because she said that it has been scientifically proven that a higher criminal threat has not had a major preventive effect or has no preventive effect at all. This is exactly the problem in the intensification of the rules on attacks on workers and police officers: that we actually know – scientifically based – and Mr Jarolim also knows that we will not help the workers and the police officers through a higher criminal threat. Of course, we must ensure that people are better protected, but in science, it is clear that the higher criminal threat does not result in such attacks no longer happening. What we do is: We put the entire system, the weighting of the system completely on the head and sharpen something because it sounds medially good. – I don't think that makes sense. To the truly dangerous part, to the famous Lex Reichscitizen, to the Freemen: We are doing something in the Austrian legal order, which is highly dangerous. We are thus implementing family criminal law into the Austrian criminal law, and that is something that should actually have no place in developed democracies. In the future, someone who sets an action on and for himself will make himself punishable It is not punishable, which is quite legitimate, but in which, because it has joined a movement which, for example, does not recognize the Republic of Austria, manifests this attitude. That means he doesn't do anything illegal for himself, but he's therefore punishable because we say that his mind doesn't fit us. – I think that's very dangerous. Of course, we have to face up to these partly very aggressive political objectors, and there is enough of that which has already been mentioned: This is from the necessity of body injury, from the presumption of authority – there is already enough – to the terrorist association. But what we really should not do is do something that has no place in a developed democracy, namely to punish someone, because he has a mind that does not fit us, which we can certainly reject, and I reject it just as much; to punish someone only because this attitude, which he has as a member of a group, manifests itself in some act of rightfulness in itself. This is family criminal law, and family criminal law has certainly not lost anything in a developed democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25270	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25291	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! In recent times, there have been some worrying developments, which one tries to take into account the revision of criminal law. It is true that the speeches of the previous speakers have something for themselves that you have to weigh very carefully. The arguments they put forward already have something for themselves, but I think that the aggression and vehemence with which these groups occur are worth considering and, so to speak, defending the beginnings and stopping them. With all the legitimate arguments you mention here – and this is, of course, a gratification – it is nevertheless: If one sees how the occurrence is, how strong the underminer is, how aggressive it is being done against police officers and other officials representing the state, then I have to say that I think it is right that steps be taken. It is also intended to punish the establishment of such anti-state movements, the leading participation or the execution of anti-state actions. – So I think it is right and necessary to give this signal. As far as the attacks on creatives or those who serve in public are concerned: It is also about giving these people a signal to say: We, the State, are ready to protect you who are doing daily work for us! Therefore, the level of punishment should be increased. You can argue about whether that's useful, but it's a signal for these people so they don't feel they're hanging in the air. Last point: I think it's right what's done about sexual harassment by groups. It cannot be that young girls, women at events, such as New Year's Eve, are harassed at concerts by men in groups. – That can't be, that can't be. Austria is a safe country, we need to maintain it, and it is therefore right that criminal law be modernised in this regard and enter into this respect so that women can attend such events, events indiscriminately. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25331	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25352	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I'll take it straight ahead. We will also agree to this law, because there are some measures that will improve it. The story has been addressed, we all know the headlines. There we do not need to look at Cologne, there was also in Austria, to New Year's Eve in Innsbruck and in various other cities. We will therefore vote in favour of this law. I would like to address one point, Mr Stefan's request, which, in my view, is absolutely authorised. Now, when we look at what happens because of the slight threats of punishment, the half-punitive threats in young adults or “youth” – under quotation marks – we see: The police keep dealing with 17-year-olds, they tell me. Every Afghan who comes to Austria is 17 years old, whether he already has white hair and a beard, that's meated, he's 17 years old; there you can talk to police officers, that's going on and there. In any doubt, they get right, and sometime later, it comes to them that they are much, much older, but they get away with the minor punishments because they have spent themselves as young people. Mr. Federal Minister or Mr. Vice-Chancellor – I still have to get used to it – in general, the penalties are often measured by two measures when it comes to Austrian or foreign citizens, and I would like to give you an example that is quite provocative to me; an article on “Vorarlberg online”, dated 29. May of this year: ‘By force against deportation’. I'll read this shortly. “A five-fold family father, citizen of the Russian Federation,” Chechene said, “willed in March to prevent his mother from being brought to the Vienna Police Station.” – This took place in Bregenz. It's also saying: “When the police officers wanted to pick up the woman at home, the son appeared wild and injured an official. The fine for attempted resistance’ against the state power “and serious body injury”: €480 and a further €480. Federal Minister! We have just talked to the Minister of the Interior recently about the fact that we don't have many police officers, and we can hardly inspire people for the job. If the state protects the officials in this way, we must not be surprised! Now the best thing is going to come – I forgot to read this – because this was an absence judgment: “The man was condemned in absence. Although he got the cargo", he weakened the negotiating date. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, if we allow our courts to be treated by offenders and protect our police in this way, then something is going wrong in this state! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Mild ground!]] I would like to inform you of this, since I am no longer going to the National Council, but I am still in the police service; I would like to tell my colleagues that they are protected by their employer and by the state as it is, and that the state is behind them. Such judgments show me that the state is not behind its officials. By the way, I wonder that this was only tried resistance – perhaps it has been poorly researched – in my opinion, it is complete resistance to state power if an official is injured. Mr Federal Minister, there's a lot to do! You can do, I think, not what I have heard so much, but pass it on, pass it on in your ministry and in your party so that something happens, otherwise we look poor. [[Inter-remark of Vice Chancellor Brandstetter]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25398	The floor was made next to Mr Dr. Tür. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To strengthen criminal law: The fact is, we are experiencing an increasing willingness to violence in the public, fact is that a train companion is now being attacked almost every second day; these are figures from the Austrian Federal Railways. Violent acts against public transport workers are now becoming their own practice. I think that this is very, very useful, that we put under special protection those who are there for us for public transport. Second point, the so-called antagonisms, antagonisms with harassment: Unfortunately, this is a crime that has become a public issue, a public nuisance. Women, sometimes single women of men, are often surrounded by fear; it does not only cause sexual harassment, it goes to rape. This situation will also make it easier to condemn it in the future. However, criminal law now also regulates offences related to so-called non-governmental organizations: I think that a democratic rule of law can defend itself against people who are “round about” the community in Austria, as it is called in the law. On the practical impact: The target of these groups is in particular representatives of the Austrian state – executioners, judges, prosecutors, judicial officers, police officers. It comes to body injuries, resistance. A special story is the entry of Austrian officials into the international debt register in the U.S. state of Washington. At the Austrian Consulate in San Francisco, an official is already posted, the Austrian official advises on how to counter and get out of this debt register. This is Mobbing on the highest level, and it is really said that the Republic of Austria is coming here. If our laws are to be implemented, those – and these are officials and officials – must be protected here, and we do so with this novel of criminal law. That is to say, it is an aggressive act against officials, it is about the existence-threatening actions of those refusalrs, and it is simply a matter of action. I really don't understand why FPÖ and greens can't come along, I think that's very bad. I would, however, like to congratulate Federal Minister Brandstetter, but also the Justice Committee on Work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25459	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25483	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Berlakovich has said that there is already some questionable developments in the Republic and that criminal law has to be answered. Mrs Karl von der ÖVP has said that there are simply social things that are undesirable and that criminal law must respond to them. And Mr. Tür said there was an increasing crime. And what do we do about freedom? . We say that there are disturbing developments, socially unwanted things and increasing crime, where asylum seekers are at work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every day there are these messages, I've already quoted a few today. The rape story: For the first seven years, this will go down to four years, because the law gives this framework the same way. And what do we do about freedom? . We propose that we go under the abuse of the right of guest – because nothing else is that if an asylum seekers or someone who has been rejected commits a crime – because socially so desired, sees it as a particular source of difficulty. There are many special reasons for difficulty. For example, someone who commits something out of xenophobia is more severely punished. Of course, host rights are not so sacred – for us liberals already – but we are particularly surprised that this point was not even postponed in the committee, but that the ÖVP-Neu has actually attacked this request and has done so scientifically. We are not concerned with science and teaching, but with what the population wants! Thus are laws to make and not different! I am excited how this process will continue in the new ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25519	Mr Mag. Dr. Feichtinger is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25540	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! On the current rules of the 2017 criminal law, a number of measures have already been implemented, in particular on the state-union movements. We can accept this new regulation as a good conscience, it is acceptable to us in its wording and not as a criminal law. But I would like to lose a few words on the other facts. In addition to creating individual new qualifications or increasing threats of crime in the area of body injury, there are new rules in the area of sexual integrity, which are now recognised as an essential asset. We expressly welcome this and also the crime of engaging in sexual harassment as a group offense. I think – and I agree with colleagues Berlakovich – that criminal law is the right instrument to respond to this development. We will therefore also agree to this proposal with good conscience. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25568	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25589	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer to the request made in 1941/A(E) The Committee was rejected. This is not quite understandable to me, because I believe that this request would be important and correct. What is the point of this proposal? – The Federal Government, in particular the competent Federal Minister for Justice, is invited to “make legal frameworks as quickly as possible to ensure that Islamist radicalized prisoners are accommodated in specially designed security departments apart from other prisoners in order to prevent the threat of radicalisation of prisoners”. I think that's nothing bad, that's even something very, very good that looks into the future. This is not a denial of reality, that is reality. From SPÖ-side came the Committee: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a different thing to do. They should not be concentrated, they should be distributed. – That would be the whole execution of the sentence, because we do it in the case of particularly dangerous inmates. They are on security departments, otherwise we could also say that we are immediately disbanding the "West E" in the Stein judicial centre and mixing all over the institution. You don't want to. You have institutions that have a certain purpose in carrying out, and of course there also departments. It would be quite good to do something like that. Mr Federal Minister, you do not even have measures. If there is a suspicion that a person is Islamicly radicalized – you can already see that on the crime – then a standardized risk screening would have to take place at the beginning. You don't do that. You don't. Then, of course, you have to monitor the contact outside and inside specifically, the work, the visit and, and, and. One would have to deal with the matter and warn the authorities and make a so-called closing screening during the release from prison. All of this doesn't happen. They say: We don't have this problem, we don't have it! Although there are 250 prisoners who are very likely to be so-called dangerous. And then you let it go to the people outside. You know very well, Minister of State, that many of these people are young adults and young adults. And you keep it in Austria, because there is no such thing, you don't want such a thing and you don't need it, even in the relaxed execution. That is, they have reduced inclusion times, they have all the possibilities to get in touch with the outside world, and, and, and. As I said, young people and young adults are stopped in the relaxed execution, so you don't look so closely, and that's where the danger threatens. To act here, you startle back, you don't want to. We take note of this. I hope that this will be the case at the National Council elections on 15 November. We see this as absolutely important. This is also protection for the population, and we are elected for it and we are there for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25634	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I may begin with a brief opinion on the last point raised by Mr Lausch. That's where I can keep short: Of course, we see the danger of radicalisation in prison, and of course we have been doing everything we can for a long time, especially with the help of external experts, in constant intensive coordination with the BAT and, of course, using all the possibilities we have. We currently have 63 prisoners who are to be assigned to this terrorist area from the threat or also from the conviction. These 63 persons were, of course, treated from the beginning in such a way that this danger potential was taken into account accordingly – with special implementation plans from the beginning. I just want to make one clear: We have taken this danger very seriously from the very beginning and have done everything we can to attract external experts. So far, it seems that God has also been able to control this risk potential in Austria anyway. - That's just for that. Now to the smaller StGB-Novelle itself: Oh, my God, you know, this has a general and a special component. I'll stay with the general one. Of course, you have to hold on to one thing: It seems to be specifically about the situation against the citizens of the empire, the so-called citizens of the empire, against the declared enemies of the state who are really against the state and its institutions. We didn't make it easy. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to express my real thanks to all the judicial speakers, including the ÖVP's judicial spokesman, for this constructive cooperation also in the judicial committee, which has led us to reach consensus to a large extent – although not a hundred percent, but to a large extent. In one point we agreed: There is something to be done if a larger group of people – the BAT speaks of more than a thousand people who are associated with this group of non-state opponents – are involved in active action to hinder the state and its organs in any form, so to speak, scattering sand into the gears, and really preventing the rule of law from being enforced, because then there is a general problem. The rule of law also lives on its enforceability, it also lives on the fact that it can be taken seriously as such and that everyone knows: If one violates laws, each one will have to bear the corresponding consequences. The right is the same for all, has to be the same for all. That is the general aspect. In this context, I may only mention a sentence which I consider very, very striking. My section head of the relevant department, Dr. Pilnacek, recently formulated this in the “Wiener Zeitung”, and this is very, very striking: "It is above all about how a democratic society deals with the fundamental and complete rejection of its form of society, all the more so than this rejection materialises in the creation of its own executive powers, which are also to be enforced by self-proclaimed sheriffs. Do you have to exercise real restraint here? Must we wait here until there has actually been an attack on executives, executioners, lawyers or judges?’ No, of course not, and that is the crucial point. We simply need to note that there are people who are very targeted – I say once again: through active action, which goes far beyond an attitude – against state organs. Now I come to the individual component: Of course, I have always gone from the perspective of those concerned, from the perspective of those who have actually become victims of such actions and are still going on. We have a lot of effort that we naturally have to make to help officials who are being movated by such non-staters in any form, whether by registering in dubious debt registers abroad or otherwise any activity. It can't be that those who really act lawfully are in some way stupid, because they have to recognize that those who totally negate the state and its legal order and do everything to prevent the enforcement of the laws simply get away with it without sanctions. This is not possible, and that is the crucial point for me, which is more than a criminal sentence. I have, of course, taken these concerns seriously from the very beginning. I understand, Mr Steinhauser, what you have said about concerns. I am, if you want to, from the trade, I know that. But so that you may also understand us and that you can also see that we have not made this easy with this crime, I would like to remind you only of one thing. Under my aegis with the larger StGB novelle, we have abolished a state of action on the basis of an opinion by numerous experts, which may already have been forgotten, namely the fact that the call for disobedience to laws has been made. - That's what it was called. This was a crime against those who publicly call for a general disobedience to law. This is not the last thing we have to do with the operation of the Greens, and I have understood this, with effect from 1 January. January 2016 abolished because we said: No, that's actually family law. It's too far. And I was convinced of that, too. I am still convinced that it was right to abolish this crime. Then the objectors came, and then this new phenomenon, quite with active actions, was targeted against our officials in order to hinder them in order to hinder their democratic-based activity. And that's what I realized. We need something, however, which is more than a criminal law, because there must be an active action in which exactly this generally negative attitude against the state and against the democratically legitimate legal order manifests itself. That was the point. I believe that, not least taking into account the objections that existed, we have found a formulation that ensures exactly that. That's more than family law. We had that earlier, we abolished it, no question. But now you really have to say: Anyone who is acting against our officials in the form of a barrier to them, where they can only be, must already expect a corresponding consequence. This is necessary in the sense of defensive democracy, and ultimately, as I said, the rule of law also lives on its enforceability. I'm still staying on the individual level. I believe that the intensifications in the area of sexual criminal law are beyond dispute. That's not a question for me. I am also pleased that this is actually only for approval. But with regard to enlargements to protect civil servants against attacks, I should like to say, Mr Hagen, that: We now have a higher level of punishment for attacks on officials with this novel, which is also being decided here today. I must also tell you that I see the views of those concerned every day, in particular as regards the staff of mass vehicles – creators, control bodies, regulators. I went to Vienna with my commuting train today, yesterday too. I'm talking to my creatives. On the occasion: Greetings to all my creatives on my Pendler's route! You know – I don't need to say anymore – when you talk to them, you know what to do. And I am guided by what is necessary from the point of view of those concerned, and believe me, that is necessary! I therefore call for this amendment to be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25743	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25764	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you're not the only one who's driving the train, I am also very often commuting to Linz. I also speak with the creatives, and just on the weekend I went back from Graz to Vienna, and there I experienced it closely. You say on the one hand that you are helping them – and yes, you are helping them because the things we are now implementing are exactly those that we have called for in 2015 in the process of the revision of the criminal code, namely the higher penalties. The minimum penalties I have already demanded have not yet come, but I am very brave that they will probably be on the tapet at the latest in two years. I have definitely noticed – you just have to say so honestly, Mr Rosenkranz has already mentioned it – that it is already about a certain group that does exactly these things. It's not about the fact that it's only been a few years and that there's only been this problem for a few years. In 2015, it obviously didn't exist, because that's exactly what we wanted, and then you said we don't need that. It's just so far now that we have exactly these groups that are doing these things, which are threatening the creators in the public, who don't want to pay there, and then when they're told that they have to leave the train – that's how it was in Graz in the case I've been talking about –, become rational and violent. At that time, fired by newspaper articles I found in Germany, I asked exactly these things to prevent attacks on executive officials with minimum penalties. You didn't do that back then, and I'm sorry. And you have to say honestly, too: We have tried to make a request here today to address this problem honestly and also to punish certain groups known to commit these crimes. Unfortunately, you didn't go there. The ÖVP has talked about adverse developments in criminal law and about wanting to counteract these undesired developments. There is an unwanted development that is so blasphemous that the German Bundestag has even passed a law against it. You know what request I am making, because I have made it, and you have also informed us that it is not necessary for us to do so. I think this is sad, because the German Minister of Justice has been able to tell the German Bundestag very quickly that in Germany has more than 1,475 persons who are underage and in a marriage. On the other hand, she and all the ministries in Austria cannot tell us how many minors, perhaps even among 14-year-olds, were married and living in a marriage. That is why I would like to make this request again today, since the SPÖ in the Committee has also decided that it is useful for us to consider whether this adverse development is also taking place in Austria and is taking place: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is our demand so that we can counter unwanted developments in a timely manner! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e25831	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported. It is properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26151	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft criminal law Novelties 2017 in 1621 of the Supplements. Mr Schreak, a request for a separate vote by the honourable Member, was put to a request for a separate vote by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Steinhauser, Members of Parliament, as well as a request for a separate vote by Members Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. First of all, we call for the separate vote of the honourable Members. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, concerning Article 1 Z1 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those members of the House who are voting in favour of this part of the bill to give an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We now come to the request for a separate vote by Mr Scherak on Articles 1 Z 3 and Z 5 as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the request for a separate vote by the honourable Members. Steinhauser, colleagues in relation to Articles 1 Z 11 to 15 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We now come to the request for a separate vote by Dr Scherak and Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, each of whom concerns Article 1 Z 16 as amended by the Government's proposal. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We now come to that part of the request for a separate vote by Mrs Scherak, which includes Article 1 c 17 in the version of the Government template. I ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of these provisions to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. We now come to the request for a separate vote by Dr Scherak and Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, who are concerned with Articles 2 Z 1 to 3 respectively, as amended by the Government's proposal. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the rest of the request for a separate vote by the honourable Members. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, on Article 2 Z4, as amended by the Government's proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this part of the bill to be a sign of confirmation. – This too is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schrangl, colleagues, on the preparation of a statistics on childhood in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1738 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We come to the vote on agenda item 25: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1739 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1740 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[19:45:34]] 27. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1588, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insolvency Regulations, the Law on Court Fees, the Insolvency Reimbursement Law and the Reimbursement Order (Insolvency Change Act 2017 – IRÄG 2017) (1741 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26323	We're coming to 27. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Lettenbichler stands in front of the government bank and has a conversation with Vice-Chancellor Brandstetter.]] One more moment, ladies and gentlemen. We are still waiting for the talks to be concluded at the Intergovernmental Bank. [[Abg. Lettenbichler is removed from the government bank.]] Thank you. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26366	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The change in insolvency law is a difficult story. We have already seen this in the Committee, because it speaks a lot of about it and a lot against it. We have long considered whether we should agree, but the disadvantages have been considered. I will explain to you why I cannot agree to this insolvency law amendment law with good conscience, why I have too great abstinence with it. On the one hand, it is heard by the proponents that women who have guaranteed for the former husband and for a house or whatever, after a failed marriage, should almost be discharged from a situation from which they probably do not come out of their own power. It's all clear to me that you want to help and help these people. You can answer that clearly with Yes. Only, the problem arises when you look at the law a little more closely. I really didn't make this easy and would like to tell you the following: At the first moment, it sounds pretty good to help people get out of their debt situation so they can get back on foot. The Committee has also argued with the self-employed that one actually looks at the fact that many people become independent and that they often fall into the pleite and no longer get out of the spiral. – That’s all intelligible, but you deal with matter exactly, then you come up with a few things that might put the image in a different light. According to the debtor's advice, a driving exercise is conducted in Austria against 700 000 people, against about 800 000 people. Some 92 percent of all debtors have been released due to the previous procedure. 85 percent of the respondents state that the main cause of the debt is non-responsible consumption. Ladies and gentlemen! 85 percent are not very small in the area. You can already talk about a situation that you owe yourself. That's where the picture looks completely different again. In special circumstances, for example, illness, there was a residual debt exemption of less than 10 percent for reasons of approval. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Who are the statistics of?]] After completion of the procedure, no assessment of the increase in assets shall be carried out. That is, if someone has given his house or his car to any relative, has given it to him – under quotation marks – and he then overwhelms it back to him, it will not be checked. – These are some essential points for me. Then it is always argued that there is something like this in Switzerland and Germany. The comparison with the insolvency proceedings in Switzerland and Germany, where, as we always say, similar benefits exist, is a little bit, because there is a comprehensive debt register in these countries, which is not available in Austria. This means, for example, that if someone deliberately hires and makes five or six “debt frauds” – under quotation marks – and cannot pay and the money remains guilty, then he will eventually be excused. And if the person is renting in with me now, I have no way of checking whether something is already going on against him with the current legislative amendment. I think that would be a danger. This also concerns companies, because if I order a company and can't pay and I do it several times and that's being destroyed afterwards, then you can't see into this debt register anymore. You can't check if someone has already done that, and that can drive a small company into ruin. These are measures that are not all right for me. I might want to highlight the whole thing with an example from a slightly different point of view: According to my information, this law will in future even be possible to repay itself by insolvency proceedings if you have not paid Alimente if you have not paid for the maintenance over years. These open demands will be deleted in German. For me, this is a point where I think, okay, that now has nothing to do with what you intend to do, that is to excuse women or the like. And then who's taking the bill? – These negative changes would affect banks, businesses, small businesses – as I said – or even institutions such as social security, financial services, local health funds, municipalities, district headquarters and so on. The honest, diligent taxpayers would then have to pay the bill. I believe that you cannot agree with good conscience; therefore we will reject this proposal from the Stronach team, even if it hurts me for certain people in the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26402	Mrs Mag. Steinacker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26426	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Failure is a detour and not a dead end. US motivation trainers say this to many because there is a culture of failure in the USA. With this law, we want to help a little bit, that this also becomes better possible and more acceptable in us. Failed, but at the same time, for those who are then discharged by the private bankruptcy, it must also mean – that is something we demand of them – that they must also be failed in the sense of careful handling of their daily actions. We therefore want to, and this is crucial, to give the fair debtor an opportunity to re-start the economy. In the past, the most insolvent entrepreneurs have often failed to achieve the corresponding minimum rate due to the debt situation – on average, the € 290 000. The goal, which is why we have actually – I say quite consciously now – been to negotiate this law seriously with our coalition partner and to try to get it going, was that we want to give the fair debtor a chance to give the numerous start-ups in Austria, which failed for the first time, this second fair chance. We have made a so-called committee opinion, and 51 opinions have been received. We have really put forth the effort to scrutinize and evaluate these carefully. Mr Hagen, you have been told: Look at the opinion of the KSV, there are figures, data and facts about who is indebted for which reason, very precisely inside. What you said wasn't quite right. The previously remembered – and that was a crucial point – three years of zero ratio were too short. In these years, statistics and experiences, too little money would flow back to creditors. That is why it was very crucial and important for us – so that we can actually distribute money – to extend the deadline to these five years. Indeed, even if there is no quota, creditors can now get a real chance to get back some of their money. We call for serious efforts from the private debtor, who is at the end of his debt. However, he must also be fair in this respect, and he must fulfil so-called obligations, i.e. also during the procedure, during these five years, he must strive fairly for work when he is unemployed. This is a innovation that we have introduced. We want to prevent abuse with strict rules – both during and before the private bankruptcy procedure. We have also created the new opportunity to consult the Executive Register. This is very important because then the creditors know whether it is still paying off to go into a procedure. The costs of proceedings, of course, burden the debtor, but the creditor can also sit at the expense of the creditor. The 20-year blocking period is important to us, it has remained. We say yes to the second chance, but we say No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We make this law with 1. ==References== This is because we want to give the courts, because we want to give all those who are now involved in private bankruptcy proceedings time to re-establish the necessary processes. order. The new rules, ladies and gentlemen, are fair and reasonable to creditors and private debtors, they are a balance between the creditor's legitimate interest in repayment and the private debtor's interest in getting rid of the debt on a sustainable basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26493	I call Mr Jarolim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26514	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can join the saying in large areas. I do not think it will help anyone if, as always in the past, we have debtors who have gone through life-long insolvency, who have also escaped the entire economy and who have often come into this situation relatively innocent, such as women who have taken over guarantees for liabilities in the context of marriage, which they have not been able to repay. I also believe that it is important – the rules for the banks in the future – that you look at exactly who is a loan to whom you give a loan to take that into account. Of course, it is in nobody's interest that loans are not repaid, that debts are not repaid. Therefore, there are also appropriate possibilities – it has already been mentioned –: to report every six months on how the current working situation looks in order to be able to contribute accordingly to the repayment. What is very positive is – and this is already being applied – that you see whether the person or the person is also trying to reduce the liabilities accordingly. There is the possibility in the future, even if it fails and one does not come to the 10 percent or less, of ending this stage by 0 percent. The EU has presented a proposal that is now being discussed: three more years for economic operators, three more years with zero. You didn't take that into account. I believe that if there is a corresponding innovation for companies, then we will certainly have to look at the whole situation again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26548	Mr Brückl has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26569	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Insolvency Law provides clear reliefs for people who have become over-indebted and thus have become incompetent to deal with their difficult financial situation. That makes sense. However, I should also like to take a brief look at the reliefs: It has already been mentioned the duration of the procedure, which is shortened from seven to five years, and the minimum quota, which has been so to speak, has been deleted. The so-called fairness decision fails, which means – which has made sense in the past – the decision by the judge, whether or not the debtor will be released from his remaining debts, will have it automatically. But what has not been mentioned in this context, and I would also like to stress this, is the payment plan. It is pretended to be easy now by this debt regulation process, everything new, everything else. – No, the tax procedure, and that is what we are talking about now, is only the last collection network for the debtor to pay off. The payment plan, which is shortened and simplified, is – and it remains almost unspoiled – called for voluntaryness. I think that this development will also be like this in the future: Of course, there may be a little more tax procedures, but the payment plan also remains for us, and the creditors will be served accordingly. When I speak of the creditors, however, I have to say – and I see that critically – that, of course, you also have to look at who pays for it, because someone has to pay these debts. These are, of course, the creditors. These you can, if you take all the procedures, actually sum up in groups: You have the banks, you have the shipping houses, you have the mobile providers and so on; these are available in almost any procedure. The creditors will, of course, turn these costs over to those customers who serve their bills and claims properly. That is, a debt payment is made by the creditor. [[Abg. Auer: This is a redistribution!]] – It is a redistribution, so it is, exactly; simplifiedly represented it is a redistribution. On the other hand, we are now sending the debtor to advise the debtor, that should also be said, and this debtor advice is state-funded, from the hands of taxpayers. If he was there, he went into the procedure, the procedure is free, cost nothing, even paying the taxpayers. Finally, and that was also a criticism of us, there is trust. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] That is, the trustee manages the procedure, and it would have been quite reasonable if one had linked the cost of the trust procedure with the remaining debt exemption, that one says, at least I can expect the debtor to bear at least those costs of €12 per month, i.e. €720 to five years – if he does not have to meet a quota and does not have to pay creditors –. That would be an approach, Mr Federal Minister, perhaps to think about the future, but otherwise this law should be accepted, because it really contributes to helping people in their debt, and to ensuring that they can be brought back into a work process, reunited there, and that they will also be brought back into a decent life. We shall therefore also vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26625	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser is the next speaker. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26646	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen! A statistics compiled by someone anonymous is not worth it in the political debate. It's worth as much as you would write yourself a statistics – which I don't want to put to you now – and it doesn't help us any more. [[Abg. Jarolim: Maybe it is!]] - I don't like to speculate about that. I focus on the figures that debtor advice announces – because most debtors land there – and they speak a relatively clear language. Who is the main client of debt advice? – persons who suddenly slid into unemployment. Clearly, the expenditure incurred can no longer be paid if debts have been made. The second is failure in independence. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already said that it is not possible to encourage people to become self-employed and then, if they fail, make them pay for it for a lifetime. The third point is divorce: Divorce is not only inconvenient to those concerned but, of course, expensive, and debt is often left behind. I would also like to remind you of the economic crisis. You must remember the many, many Austrians who have financed their own homes with foreign currency credits when the expropriators no longer kept what was promised when foreign currency credits no longer held what they promised? There people sat on debt mountains. We saved banks back then, but we abandoned the private debtors. That's what we're gonna do now. Mr Brückl of the FPÖ, who is in principle responsible for this – and I would like to acknowledge this – said that the debts would be redistributed to the creditors. This is only due to the fact that debts have often not been brought in in the old system because they could not be paid. The persons concerned were left behind with the debt mountain and could not dare to restart. Even there, the creditors have often seen nothing. In this respect, it is only limited a redistribution. I think it will also lead creditors to more care that they will consider when consumer loans are given when consumers complete business with whom they complete business. This new care is very useful because it does not help to lure people into debt that they cannot pay later on. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now we have a legislative proposal which is very, very useful because it allows the people concerned to start an economic start after five years, and this is important because this new economic start-up is a motivation to get back into work, not to withdraw, but to return to economic life. I also always remember that in these families, children often live, which thus regain a perspective, because the parents get back on their feet economically. All these are necessary and important steps. We just had two problems in the old system: A group that could never repay their debts, but could pay. This group was, of course, a bomb business for every creditor, because if someone can pay interest, but can't repay the capital, then it's a sensational business. It is unfair to those concerned because they never find out from the debt trap. There is now a clear offer. And then there is the second group that just made too little money to reach the minimum rate. It has never had a chance to get out of debt, and I believe that the five years you are paying now make sense, and if you do not reach the minimum rate, you can still be excused. The main beneficiaries of the old system were the collection offices, and I don't think it makes sense to create laws that are especially available to collection offices. No, I want citizens, when they fall into debt, to also find a way out and then share in economic life again. I am glad that SPÖ and ÖVP have combined this important reform. We will agree and are positive things that will have a good effect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26691	Mr Mag. Loacker is the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26712	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, this is a difficult legal matter because there are many interests intertwined: the economic interests of people participating in economic life, the interests of debtors, the interests of creditors, and the interests of creditors to get their money that they have given up. We will only agree to this novel because we believe that this simultaneous reduction of the deadline and the elimination of the minimum quota is a little bit of good. Everything will be shaved over a comb, the consumer will be treated equally with the trader whose entrepreneurial risk has realized, and we do not think that is correct. We need a culture of failure for entrepreneurs who risk something, but we do not need the same rules for consumers. If we know today – Mr Jarolim has mentioned it – that the EU is preparing a directive that will provide for more favourable rules for entrepreneurs, then we must ask ourselves why not. Mr Steinhauser has just said that the creditors will now show a new care. Well, that's in the end, you get a loan harder. That's the result. Whether you want this result, that you get a loan harder, if you want to finance something, you can look at it from two sides. I have the feeling that very often only one side has been seen in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26743	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One thing is very important in this new regulation of private insolvency – it has already been said, but I would like to stress it in one point: This is about the consideration of reasonable failure. As far as the unfair failure is concerned, there are still obstacles to the initiation of the proceedings, which are, for example, the fact that someone was legally condemned for a crime and his condemnation was not removed. These are obstacles to the procedure itself, I would like to stress, and this also underlines what the chairman of the judicial committee, Mr Steinacker, has already said: It's about real failure, but it's also about offering a debtor the opportunity to get a new start. In the end, however, it can also be kept from temptations to slip back into painting in many cases. We all know from practice that then suddenly everything he uses doesn't belong to him, and more like that. No, this is a real, fair opportunity that the debtors get through it, and I think the contributions so far have already shown that there were very many, also different views, and all the more so – and I really want to stress this here – the performance of the judicial spokesman of the SPÖ’s ÖVP and the judicial spokesman, who have worked out a compromise with these diverse and divergent interests, which is in full agreement. I'm really happy about it. To be honest, I would not have thought a few weeks ago that this project could actually be implemented from the extended government programme, as positive as it is now; I am glad. I also know, of course, that especially the ÖVP – but possibly others too – really had to solve something from many of the ideas that have always been represented so far. I might say it even more clearly: The smell or the quietest suspicion of client policy was left far behind. The result is a truly genuine compromise, with many interests that were to be taken into account – of course difficult to put under a hat. It's all the more beautiful that it's done. I am glad that we have been able to implement this plan of the government programme, and thank all those who have made it possible for their support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26803	The next speaker is Mrs Lueger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26825	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! What does it look like at the moment? – The current state of affairs is that one has a ten-percent ratio and has needed seven years to be discharged. We Socialists had the idea and the proposal to completely abandon the minimum quota and to reduce the time to three years. Okay, it's become a compromise. The compromise is better than what has been done up to now, because half of those who have so far failed to make it into private bankruptcy because they have not been able to meet this ten-percent ratio are those people who are getting into debt with interest rates and interest rates. These are actually the ones we're trying to take care of because they didn't get into the private bankruptcy at the time and never had a chance to get out again. There were quite simply very, very many women with low income. The dark figures of 325,000 households, which have not even reported themselves in the consultation of debtors, are now those who are supposed to have a second chance, which should have a chance to take a foothold and get a job done. Lucking a job is very difficult in the debtor's situation. What does it look like if the employer has to hold out as a third-party debtor? – The person concerned does not get a job at all. That's how it usually starts. Now we have simply created the opportunity, and the employment obstacle has now simply been removed. I think that hopeless execution procedures from which people never come out cannot be the future. One thing's important to me: It is always so strong between the variants that someone who has founded a company has failed and comes back to the legs, and someone who is a consumer. Yes, I am also opposed that many shipping houses for a T-shirt that costs € 10 offer a payment in five instalments or payment breaks over half a year. At some point you will lose the full overview of how to repay it. That's going to take care of it. I believe that it is a positive aspect that also these people are given a second chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26864	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26885	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join you there: There are many good reasons to give over-indebted people a second chance by law, which they can also take advantage of. As a building speaker, I am particularly concerned about straining a safety network for people due to recent developments. Austria is a land of tenants, and it is repeatedly propagated by politics, by parts of politics, by many media, but also by business-oriented investors, that it is to be invested in real estate. Mr Steinhauser has already done it. This development – if you create property – does not bring ever more security, that has shown the last world economic crisis. This was a real estate credit crisis, and prices on the Austrian real estate market rose by 7.3 percent last year – this shows the OeNB real estate market monitor. In November of the previous year, the European Committee on Systemic Risks issued a warning against overheating of housing real estate markets for eight European countries, including Austria. So this suggests that people have acquired their home property at too high a cost. An example of this: If you take a loan for €350, up to 1.2 percent interest on 39 years, with five years fixed interest rate, that would mean €930 a month, interest increases to 2 percent, it is €1500, they rise to 4 percent, it is €2,000. At the beginning of the last week, we heard the news report that the EU has approved Italy to save and collect two banks with €17 billion. I think it is only right and cheap to help the economically only moderately decorated people as a state with a private bankruptcy among the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26923	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1741 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:16:07]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2226/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Josef Muchitsch, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Stock Act, the GmbH Act, the SE Act, the cooperative law and the Employment Constitution Act to achieve equal representation of women and men on the Supervisory Board (Law of Women and Men on the Supervisory Board – GFMA-G) (1742 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e26983	We're now on the 28th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Stefan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27010	Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, it is about the equality law of women and men in the Supervisory Board of stock companies. The name alone is completely misunderstandingd, for men and women have so far been the same in supervisory councils. I've never heard men in a Supervisory Board have rights other than women who have one more than the other or more votes or anything else. They're equal. The fog grenade “Law of Women and Men in the Supervisory Board” begins by itself. So you know, there's something to be tended there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's this about? – At least 30 percent of men and at least 30 percent of women are to be established on the Supervisory Board by certain large stock companies. We liberals have always spoken against such compulsory quotas. We think that this is actually wrong, because we are convinced that it does not help anyone, but does the maximum damage on the other side. First of all, we always have the issue that a woman who is actually qualified and who is deliberately appointed to the Supervisory Board can be referred to as a quota woman – that is negative for the woman and also for the company. It is also true that companies must exist on the market. These are not public companies, but they are companies that need to think in terms of market economy. We now have quite a sense of entrepreneurial freedom, and we also have a shareholder democracy in the stock companies. It is agreed there, there is some negotiation and there is freedom of contract. These three points are not guaranteed in this respect. I therefore believe that this is almost impossible. I cannot imagine how it should work to represent it in such a stock company, because shareholders want to send a certain representative to the Supervisory Board. If a shareholder group has sent a man, the other must send a woman even though she wanted to send a man. We come into a game that is really not feasible. This is a pure placebo and, in fact, apparently ideologically controlled; a topic that goes completely beyond what the economy is doing. really needs and what's really good. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic ……]] On the verge: One also sees in the explanations that one cannot go through gender-righteous language. It is once spoken of by workers' representatives, but it is really necessary, if we are to formulate genderly, to say female workers' representatives or to execute them four times, workers' representatives, workers' representatives, workers' representatives, workers' representatives. – Thus, the law and the explanations would be properly formulated. So you see, you don't get along with that. In our view, therefore, it is a completely false tendency, since entrepreneurs are narrowing down, to make a law that is in reality impracticable and therefore in reality does not help women at all, but often even causes the opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27068	Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27089	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! I would like to start again with a quote, this time with a very strong woman, whom I very much appreciated, with a quote from Maria Schaumayer. She was the first female president of a national bank worldwide. She said: "Women's rights are human rights. It must be taken for granted that appropriate women take appropriate positions.” This is far from a matter of course, and I am glad that this consistent women's policy is now being briefly implemented and implemented in our new People's Party with Sebastian. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an initiative proposal, and I was able to negotiate it with a Mr der SPÖ – perhaps just because of the laugh. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] It was a very interesting and, in part, difficult negotiation. To Harald Stefan I would like to say the following: I think you can make fun of everything, but this law also has a title in the form of a long-term version, and in the long-term title it is precisely regulated, and there it says: “to achieve equal representation of women and men on the Supervisory Board”. – So there is not only this summary in the name of the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I personally would have given your speech, dear Harald Stefan, a few years ago probably similar. I have never been a fan of quotas, I just think that the situation in Austria and also in other countries in the world is right, because in Austrian supervisory councils there are still only 18 percent women, and there is a clear need for pressure that the skilled women who exist in the economy actually have real opportunities to get participation in large companies. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... ÖVP New!]] 30 percent men, 30 percent women, employees' side, employers' side identically regulated. – It was a very important goal for me that not only the capital representatives look at women coming to the supervisory councils, but also the employee side. Then there was the desire to do this, of course, only in companies where the employee's side actually has at least 20 percent women in the workforce, so that appropriate women can also be elected. They were constructive conversations with Beppo Muchich, he was well represented by the women. We send a signal – and, as I believe, an important signal – for relevant and constructive women's policy. Policy here has an opportunity to reach a framework for economic life with a practical regulation, as I believe, and I am pleased when, in the future, skilled women are sent or elected to supervisory councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27147	Mrs Gamon has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27165	Mr President. We, ÖVP and SPÖ, will probably decide on the quota in Supervisory Boards with some support, and the structural inequality of women in the labour market will be history from tomorrow. That's what I'm going to do now, because why else would we do it? For years, we talked about the reasons why it did not create women in supervisory councils and management sets, and the solution was apparently always right in front of our nose: We just have to prescribe it by law, then the problem will be removed! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Höbart.]] As you can see, this is not subtly sarcastic, but consciously sarcastic, because it just doesn't work. The state now takes on the hands of women in private companies, puts them in supervisory councils, where – obviously convinced by the Austrian state – they could not come alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] This is ridiculous, because for decades we have had structural inequality in the labour market, which also cultivates, among other things, the ÖVP, which the SPÖ cultivates through different measures. The quota does not change the age poverty of women, it does not change the vicious circle of long phases in which women work part-time and long breaks in work. Even if more women are forced to sit in supervisory councils because we have prescribed it by law, you will be offering a fundamental principle of entrepreneurial freedom, dear ÖVP. Yes, the quota works because we prescribe it by law, but that does not answer the question whether it is correct because it is still not correct. – And, of course, we women also say that we do not believe that they can achieve their career goals by their own means. Simone de Beauvoir once said that as a woman you are not born, you are made a woman – and that is exactly what is still happening in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Red and Black Conservative Voormundung policy in a very strange meeting, which still tells us exactly how our lives, in their opinion, have gone well: One should live in a heteronormative family composition, the man should go to work, the woman should stay at home – and that is exactly the policy you still do, for decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator:... poor Simone de Beauvoir!]] That's your wife's image, that's your family image. The state rules over us, thus robbing us of our freedom. He determines what we can do, what we can't do, what he thinks we can do and where he needs to help us. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Tell us your family picture!]] Let us talk about real women's policy. Let us talk about the right of opportunity that we need to come by our own strength and through our own possibilities where we want to go! We are still not answering this because we are not talking about these issues. We are not talking about tax policy, which prevents women from working full-time, we are not talking about new karenz models that allow women to also make a career, we are not talking about other cases that in family policy lead to us continuing to cement this conservative old role model – and the SPÖ has been doing so willingly for years. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We already!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Karenzmodelle!]] I am not willing to continue to accept that you are presenting symptoms such as a women's ratio in supervisory councils. This is just not honest, because you don't really put the problem at the root! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is the problem?]] We'll beautify and cut the tree so that it looks like women and men in Austria are treated the same way, but they won't. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would lead to women coming to supervisory councils on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27310	The application which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27397	Now comes Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are 18 percent women in supervisory councils, 7 percent of all top positions are women's. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Claudia Gamon, Mr Stefan, I have no desire at all to wait another 100 years until we finally pick this up. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Aslan.]] The legally related Harald Stefan knows that in the Constitution we have the article 7 para. 2 with which it is very possible to conduct positive discrimination wherever there is still massive inequality – and this is exactly what we are applying here. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What for?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] The quota, ladies and gentlemen, works, we know it from the Federal Republic of Germany, we know it from Norway, we know it from France, we know it from Italy, we know it from Spain, we know it from Finland, we know it from the Netherlands. The quota has been introduced everywhere, Mr Stefan, and it works wonderfully. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How?]] The companies make bigger profits, it flourishes life, it flourishes the company, and the climate in the companies is even better. Is that a success story? – This is a success story. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] And if I had something very, very happy in the Committee on Justice, it was the statement of the colleague Fekter, who said, at the beginning of her political life, she was also of the opinion that it might happen by itself, but now, after 27 years in Parliament, she does not know, without a quota. Mr Schittenhelm has drawn the same picture, and we have known it for a long time: We need this crutch, something else doesn't work yet! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... yes the quota, and that doesn't work!]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we are now introducing this instrument. It is a good day for women and it will change a lot in Austria. In this sense: A great story, a great day, and I'm sure it works!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27501	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27522	Mr President. Minister! High house! If you think the quota logically to the end, there is no logical, factual and legal argument. The quota cannot be justified if one argues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] After all, if you go to the bottom of the quota, where do you come from? – To a purely sexist argument: The gender shall determine what one is and where one comes in. Just what you have accused the men of decades in the women's movement of occupying posts because of their men's situation and not allowing women to do so, now you want to turn around by a state-based forced action and push women into the so-called male domains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: All posts!]] They themselves ad absurdum with this argument and with this whole process! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: But this is a good argument! All posts, that's the problem!]] Harald Stefan has already said it: What you do with it is you hurt the women. – There is nothing worse than a quota woman! I would never like to be referred to as a quota man, and if I were a woman, I would not want to be called a quota woman, because that is automatically, a priority and from the outset a bad position for the woman. [[Abg. Steinhauser: I think we need the colleague Fekter to explain this!]] [[Abg. Höbart: History writes...!]] If you're honest and think it through, then you're going to get worse with the quota, because this woman who's being pushed into a company has to work up and up, because she's automatically a quota woman. Think of it logically and honestly! All women's policy in honor, all ideologically in honor, but at some point you have to come to an argument and get a logic, and that is not logical and not Foundable in itself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] And you can't do wrong with injustice! [[Oh-run of the Abg. Höbart.]] If you call the fact that in the last centuries the men were dominant, because of their masculinity they have acquired certain positions, now call them wrong and now come and say that the same must do the women by ordering it stately, then you see this one as wrong, the other suddenly explain you to the right. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It's not about a 100 percent quota! It's a 30 percent quota!]] How do you ever want to make this clear to a logical person? This is in itself inconsistent, unarguable and an in-the-Nase global leadership of the entire population! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Höbart.]] I mean, one really has to point out here again and again that we are harming women with such ideological arguments. We harm women, and all those who agree today harm women. I think that's what many people in the ÖVP see in the same way as I do. [[Abg. Oillings: You as quotas...!]] There is therefore, overall, no valid argument for this scheme. I have looked into literature, I have heard speakers, I have looked at the reports from Germany, what they say about the quota, and I have to say: It is indeed so! – Yes, everything good and beautiful is publicly claimed, but there is basically no argument for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The only argument to be able to gain a position should be the qualification, nothing else. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Exactly!]] That is appropriate – and not to scream sexist for women's quotas! The final effect will be that we will then also scream at the men at midwives. Are we making a men's quota for the midwives? [[Abg. Aslan: Yes, let's do it! We're on it!]] – How do you want to enforce this? There's a male midwife or a midwife in Austria, I don't know how we want to describe it. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Those who do not come to the Supervisory Board will be midwives!]] How do you want to enforce such a thing, such crazy, gender-related quotas? - I want men in the midwifery: How do you want to make this clear to the midwives? How do you want to make this clear to the woman who is giving birth? – Explain You're such a thing to me! The same “logic” – under quotation marks – that you have would be the midwife logic: I want 50 percent male ratio for midwives. Let me argue that I believe it, then I also believe the meaning of the women's quota. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27715	Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27736	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Marcus Franz, not we... – Yes, I understand that the FPÖ is a lawyer of Mr. Marcus Franz. [[Abg. Höbart: But go into the arguments, gal? Agree with the arguments!]] [[Abg. Hoebart: No, not lawyer, that was logic!]] Mr Marcus Franz, we do not harm women, but if there is someone in this room who harms women, that is with great probability. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] This year I have probably heard as much anti-feminine as much misunderstanding about women's policy as you do. Again on the subject... – [[Abg. Franz: I miss the argument!]] I'll explain this to you! Because you have just talked about logical people and logical thought, I am now also bringing you the argument for what a quota needs. Now I'm doing a first-class teaching literature, so that you can take that up. The quota is a question of power relations; it is also a question of hierarchy. The gender ratio is because a well-qualified woman who is in competition with an average qualified man who has any ropes also gets the job. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's against man: Averageity!]] That's what it's all about. It's about it! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I must tell you that I happened to telephone my Scandinavian relationship yesterday, and I was ashamed that in 2017, in the Austrian Parliament, we decided to have a 30 percent female ratio, because the Scandinavian countries are much more ahead, and there have been successes. Today you want to explain to us that with the gender ratio much doesn't work, so to speak?- Oh, my God! – All those who make the quota worse today are those who don’t care how the social situation develops at all, which doesn’t matter how just structures work at all – and on the basis of voluntaryness, we have seen, just nothing happens because there are men like you who just aren’t willing to allow these just structures. [[Call at the FPÖ:... average!]] That is why we will not stop poking at these instruments to achieve justice, and you will have us again and again with criticism as their opponents. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27839	Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e27869	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Franz, I have been convinced today that you no longer have room in our family community. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Don't rain him up!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: I also understand that you want to get rid of him!]] I personally came into politics at the end of the 1980s – the colleague Worm mentioned it: 27 years ago – and at that time I also thought: We don't need a quota! – I sat in a government with Johanna Dohnal, I as Secretary of State, she as Minister of Women, and I was absolutely contrary to Johanna Dohnal’s opinion – then! That is why I forgive Mr Gamon and her youth that she also believes that women and women are doing everything, they are all alone and they are not supported. [[Abg. Gamon: Not again!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is very discriminatory!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is the ÖVP...!]] So far, we have managed to complete more women's studies than men, so far we have managed to have equality in almost all areas – and this and reality are strikingly dissociating. [[Abg. Stefan: Few young people in custody councils!]] I just had to take note of politics in 27 years: It doesn't work without a quota, even if personally the quota is unsympathetic to me. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] There are still men who believe: Yes, but then there are no ladies!, and: Where are we taking them? – And it’s such a stupid argument, that’s a disqualification, dear colleague! Let's be honest: The women who are involved in the mentoring process for supervisory councils working in supervisory councils are good, mostly better than some men who are in the chairs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Stand by your experiences in the ÖVP!]] Personally, I was lucky that at the end of the eighties it became popular to bring women into politics, and I am such a quota woman. Because of the fact that we also needed a woman, I came to the councillor of Attnang, and this quota did not make me stupid, did not make me worse and did not motivate me to work in politics any less. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... in reverse? Watch out!]] And I can tell you one thing: I have, in all the functions I have had, made sure that a woman comes back to the train afterwards – except for the post of the Minister of Finance, I have not succeeded. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] – Yes, the boss believed at the time, he could do better, but that was a different story. Ladies and gentlemen! You can also do excellent work as a quota woman. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Women are supposed to take the train that's moving, and that's a train that's moving for the women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That, of course, some are a bit irritated now because they are afraid of their armchairs, I see that already, especially in the trade unions, works councils and employee representatives, because there are also too few women who fulfil this quota. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I therefore think it is good that both the capital representatives and the employee representatives must comply with this quota in this law. [[Abg. Wooger:... Muchch!]] This will make a lot of changes to the positive side of the works councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28088	Mr Brandstetter has now come to speak. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28109	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. I could just do it now and say: Yeah, actually, this is just a social change. It is about a quota for women in supervisory councils of listed or large companies with more than 1,000 employees, and that is already an important aspect. These are companies of which one can say that they also have a certain overall social importance beyond the purely market economy, in order not to say responsibility. So much to do with and to inappropriate comparisons with any trades, whatever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] It doesn't make any sense. It's about something that has a social significance. As head of a department in which there is a very high proportion of women, I would like to say that I do not have the impression – and I have learned to do so in recent years, I agree – and I do not believe that the high proportion of women in justice, which is quite good for us, would have become possible without appropriate legal provisions within the meaning of equal treatment law. You have to say that quite openly, that's just the way it is. As far as this regulation is concerned, the discussion – and in so far as I have just enjoyed it – shows that it is not just a comparatively small social regulation, no, it is more about it. That shows all the speeches. This is a matter of social importance. We must see that there is a need for sensitivity, and I really want to say that I was very impressed by what the chairman of the Committee on Justice, Mrs Steinacker, said. She too said: Yes, there have been some moves in recent years!, and I think that the agreement of the two government parties on this project, which we have set out in the government programme, shows that it is possible to deal with each other and to distance ourselves from an absolutation of previous positions and to develop a conscious search for the compromise. This has been possible in this case and I am delighted about it. This will continue to be possible, and it will not change the fact that it was unfortunately not possible to find consensus in a very important point today. That is the right way, that is, if you want to do so, also a new way that I like very well, and so I am glad that this agreement has been reached here. If that's what you want: I'm convinced, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28163	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28191	Mr President. Minister! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Of course, I have to say a few sentences: If, from the point of view of the ÖVP, you are proud that you have left certain positions, I have to say: Yes, sir! After all, you have gradually dismantled your bourgeois-conservative position and are drifting more and more to the left of the middle. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's too far!]] I think this is bad for a conservative movement, and therefore I see the future a little different from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If we say today that the women's quota is a good thing, we should also talk to women who have grown up because of the women's quota. There is, for example, an initiative in Germany that calls itself women against the quota. This consists of noisy high-level entrepreneurs who expressly oppose the women's rate and do not think it good. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, but is that logical?]] If I ask in my private area, for example my wife, who is a professional, independent, entrepreneur, veterinarian with five employees: What do you think of the quota? Such a fool! We women also want to do something, and we do not need a quota to get anywhere, but we need the achievement and the qualification! – Take this away from the women through the quota – take away the women! [[Abg. Aslan: Then she wouldn't have married you!]] [[Abg. Fekter:... own value!]] They create a judgment, a castel of women by this quota. Just think about that quota nonsense. He hurts and he'll hurt in every way, and if I want to have other quotas, I could say just as well, I only need people with shoe size 45 in supervisory councils, because they have a good appearance. This is just as logical or as stupid as this female ratio. Forget about your ideological millstones that you have around your neck, and think things over! Then you will come to other results than the view of the world always octroys you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28302	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28324	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I am expressly grateful for every qualified speech, and every unqualified person was one too much from my point of view. And it's called birth helpers, Mr. Col., and not midwives – birth helpers that's what it's called! [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] So, but now to the quota: I am pleased – and Mr Vice-Chancellor has mentioned it – that we have had a 50 percent quota in public service for many years now and a lot of great women in leadership positions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, in the SPÖ!]] You know exactly when we dealt with the financial crisis together, the public service was really important and an important pillar of stability in this Republic. We also have a quota of 45 percent in the ORF, we have a quota at the universities, and that is why we now have eight rectors – a few years ago we had zero rectors – who are highly qualified women who run and manage universities well. I am pleased that, in the near-state area, we were able to introduce the self-obligation – is equal to a quota – into supervisory councils, which is on average 40 percent, some of which are still a bit sparse. Today's decision of the quota in supervisory councils for companies with more than 1,000 employees or listed companies will take another important step so that women can develop their talents so that women can show what they have on it, and that if this fails, the chair chair chair chair chair chair will simply remain empty. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How many women does this really help?]] This will certainly be very important and motivating to ensure that these quotas are respected, because, I repeat what some have said, quotas bring better results, quotas also increase the motivation of employees and quotas ultimately create a more even and even-weighted picture in society than we now have in many areas. I am expressly grateful to the coalition partner that we have been able to implement this now – and it has accompanied me for nine years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28379	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer's word. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28401	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to take the opportunity now and tell you a little bit from practice. As some of you know, I have only been here for two or three months, and I am from such a large group that has over 1,000 employees, 140 000 worldwide, and we are doing well without the quota. I'll tell you why. The only thing that needs to change so that women can be successful, these are the men, and there you have to be. Men need to change. Men need to understand how a company is successful. International studies show that you can read all of this. Women on board, women in the economy: Companies that have many women are more successful, more sustainable, there are longer ones. That is why, if you want to help women, there are other issues for me. Women can be helped by paying them the same salary by providing them with farm kindergartens, helping them over this time, and not demoting them as they call it so beautiful when they go into Karenz. These are the things you can help women with, then you don't need a quota. And men must all take their noses first and work together, and then we will all be successful and all will have such good companies and so sustainable companies, with many women in leadership positions, without the famous glass ceiling, and then we simply don't need a quota. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28438	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1742 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on the package of measures on equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:51:09]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2243/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Extraordinary Law, the Law on Jurisdiction, the Law on Court Fees, the Security Police Act and the 2014 Act on Foreign Maintenance, as well as the Federal Law of 9. of 25 June 1988 on the implementation of the Convention of 25 June 1988. October 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (Kids-RückungsG 2017 – KindRückG 2017) (1743 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28513	We're coming to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I should like to point out that only three speakers have spoken. We shall therefore come to the vote very quickly, therefore, I would ask you not to leave the room when it is somehow possible. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Aslan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28544	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We recognize the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to allow a rapid procedure in this delicate matter, because the EGMR has also proposed this. It is also good that one has tabled another amendment in this respect – with this the draft has been taken the top of the list – but one has to say that well-known civil rights experts have also pointed out in the opinion procedure that the draft cannot still be considered to be fundamental sensitive because 75 percent of the requests of fathers are filed. This means that it is also likely to have an impact on women, because if we use the word child abduction, then we are talking about mothers returning to their home after a failed relationship with their child or with their children. Many anti-violence centres and also intervention agencies point out that women with their child or children have to take part in the run because they want to escape a violent partner because they have financial support. I would like to ask the Commission if it is prepared to do so. For these reasons, they take refuge with their children. That is why we cannot go along with this request: because the legal situation should be considered differently from one case to another, and that is not the case. In this respect, we can say that it is of great importance that there should be a particularly high level of fundamental rights sensitivity. For example, this draft should continue to allow all necessary measures to be taken for the purpose of verifying the stay and not to be limited to certain search methods or target persons. The OGH has already said in its opinion that this is not to be represented and that it is necessary to pay more attention to fundamental rights sensitivity. That is why we cannot support the request, but of course it is another step. For the acceleration of the procedure it would be important to move in this direction, but one would have to do this more politically and to the benefit of the child again look closely at the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28583	Mr Mag. Avenauer is the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28604	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The so-called Children's Repatriation Act is a very sensitive issue because it is highly personal and mostly emotional and problematic relations. It deals with the problem of international child abductions. In principle, in case of abduction, the child should return to the State from which it was abducted until the competent State decided on the right of custody. This is intended to reverse the decision of the kidnapper. Such situations and circumstances are very stressful for all concerned. That is why decisions are to be taken quickly, and this law will also provide opportunities to speed up these decisions. On the one hand, the arrangement of the return can be linked to the forceful enforcement, so that the whole is done in one operation instead of two decisions in order to also save time accordingly. Nevertheless, a friendly agreement between parents should also point out the urgency of the decision so that it can be taken quickly. As well as requests from the Central Reporting Register and the Main Association of Social Insurance Carriers, the participation of the security authorities in the verification of the stay will be made clear in the explanations that the address of the child and the abducting parent must not be passed on to the other parent. This amendment will address child welfare even more. For example, if it turns out that child welfare would be at risk in accordance with the specific circumstances of the individual case, the enforceability should be excluded, or objections should be taken into account if circumstances that endanger child welfare have subsequently occurred. And there should be a children's assistance to support the child. With increasing internationalization of marriages and communities of life, it will certainly also be necessary to regulate such matters, and this law will focus on child welfare in particular. That is why I am seeking the appropriate approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28650	Mrs Mag. Grossmann is the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28671	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Cases of child abduction are quite dramatic events that are very close emotionally and cause a lot of emotional pain in children and, of course, also in parents. Abductions by strangers are thanks to God a rarity, but kidnappings in the family are not so rare at all. I was actually shocked when I read the number that at least 30 cases are reported per year in which return applications are submitted to Austria from abroad. Often no surveys or warrants could be carried out in Austria – if both parents were entrusted with the care when the legal situation in the respective country of origin was similar. This should now be changed gradually if there is a kidnapping situation. According to the European Court of Human Rights of 2015, Austrian procedural law in the case of return situations shows shortcomings to be resolved with this novel. My previous speaker has already explained it in the main lines – it is an essential step in the right direction. It is very important that the negotiations and this innovation have succeeded in anchoring the child's well-being, of course, as well as keeping a real presence through this novel, because this is really the highest good that needs to be considered: the child's well-being.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28708	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1743 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who will also give the present draft at third reading their approval in order to give a positive signal. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:00:01]] 30. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1630, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the passenger car consumer information law (1708 d.b.) 31. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1666, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the fluorinated greenhouse gas law in 2009 (1709 d.b.) 32. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2256/A by Mr Johann Höfinger, Mr Mag. Dr. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, Members of the Federal Law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 (1710 d.b.) 33. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of the final report of the expert workshop on the seismic risk of the Krško nuclear power station to the National Council (1711d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28800	We now come to points 30 to 33 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Brunner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28827	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! A number of highly different agenda items from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are discussed here. I would like to address a few more specific points. One is the implementation of the so-called Kigali Agreement – once again an example where international environmental policy is extremely successful. I would like to tell you once again how dynamic international environmental policy is and how much goes on. I would really like us to take along in this House a little bit of this dynamic and carry on this dynamic also in Austria. The Kigali Agreement would save a fifth of the fluorinated gases by 2030, which is really neat and would also contribute to the achievement of climate targets. So a great achievement in international environmental policy! We will be very happy to agree to this. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second point is a request together with an amendment from the government's environmental impact assessment groups. In the original application, the equality between non-official experts and the authorities was already necessary. This is the case in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Ireland The background is that procedures should also be accelerated. From a green point of view, I consider this to be highly counterproductive for the acceleration of procedures. If you want to speed up the procedures more efficiently, you need the opposite, namely good equipment of the authorities with official experts. It will also confirm to every project promoter that the main reason for delay is that we simply do not have enough expertise in the authorities. By the way, it would also increase the confidence of citizens' initiatives and citizens in the decision of public authorities if this were to be decided by an official expert and not by someone who is bought on the free market without wanting to put something under someone's hands now. I think that the procedure would be simplified. The amendment now also provides that, in cross-border projects, the authority's competence should be directed towards the place. We believe that the solution taken is not sufficient either. I think that such projects should be the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. We would like to move this to your ministry, Mr. Environment Minister. That is why there will be no agreement from us. What is still important in this context: You may notice that there is no request from my group on these agenda items. This has one reason: because our proposals have not been accepted or rejected in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but have simply been postponed. The legislative period is now over. I wonder, Where are they to be postponed? We have a request for the implementation of the Aarhus Convention. This is not just an application, but a final law, which states that if people are affected by environmental impacts such as air pollution, then the citizen who has the right to sue measures against this air pollution and health risk. I don't know what to do You are afraid why you do not want laws that we have here in order to protect citizens can actually work for citizens. No one can explain that. However, I would like to say to the citizens: We have requested it for them, we have prepared it for them. ÖVP and SPÖ are not involved. – You can then explain why. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second proposal by our Greens was the Climate Change Act. We have experienced it: Almost all the political groups have been outraged by the President of the United States because he is out of the climate agreement. – The Federal Government does not implement the climate agreement either! I don't know what's better or worse now. They can also be photographed with Arnold Schwarzenegger, Laurent Fabius and Co – and on the same day an application is made in the Environment Committee that we also implement, reject or postpone the climate agreement in Austria. You can't explain that to anyone. Those who are outraged by Trump must implement the climate agreement – everything else is unbelievable. I regard this as a total failure in climate policy: The Federal Government has not succeeded in even introducing a single measure to implement the climate agreement. There is still a chance – that is why I will now apologise in the debate: because we are negotiating the Eco electricity Act. This is the last chance. Otherwise, I would like to see the next legislative period, however this Parliament may be composed, more courage, more dynamic, more close cooperation. Parliament in the field of environmental policy. We will urgently need this, because the greatest economic opportunities are also in climate, energy and environmental policy. That is why I am absolutely convinced: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate, Energy and Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28902	Mr Höfinger is next speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28924	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is four agenda items that we are now negotiating under one. One of them concerns the passenger car consumer information law. The content is as follows: We are implementing an EU regulation on further information. Nowadays, there are many ways to operate a vehicle with energy. This should again be evident to everyone: in the case of petrol stations in the form of signs or also in the operating instructions – that is, an effort which is not so large financially, but which is of immense importance to the consumer, which is why we like to decide on this law. The second is also a common proposal for which we have found a majority, namely the limitation of fluorinated greenhouse gases. I believe that this is not only a measure to bring about technical changes, but also to ensure that climate change is truly sustainable. All of this will also be flown in order not to create too high a cost for the individual plant operator, but to give everyone the opportunity to convert the plants in the medium term in order to reduce the emissions of such greenhouse gases accordingly. The third issue, which we would like to make in common, concerns a subject on which we very often agree in this House, namely the question of nuclear power, which we reject overall in this country. Now, however, we have not only the situation that various nuclear power plants around Austria are positioned and that they are always a source of danger – which is why we have often approached these neighbouring states both from the countries and from the Federal Republic in order to ensure that the safety standards are fully respected in the future – but in this case we are also dealing with a potential nuclear waste storage facility in the Czech Republic, which may also be set up border-by-border. Czech Republic is currently locating locations. In this respect, we have also come to a joint request, which strictly rejects this – in support of or hand in hand with the country of Lower Austria, where a signature action is currently under way, to which I can only invite you all. The Head of State Dr. Pernkopf is the head of this initiative, and I think it is also important here to send a common signal. It was also important to us the fourth point, the amendment to the 2000 EIA Act, where there is now an extended possibility of using the said non-official experts, namely not only in the preliminary proceedings, but also in the various implementing procedures at all levels until the conclusion of the procedures, accompanied by non-official experts. On one of the points mentioned by Mr Brunner, namely the Aarhus Convention: Yes, we are called upon to implement these, hand in hand with the countries, but we decided on the last Environment Council, including the Social partners on this issue. And these are now also those institutions that represent the people. One thing we do not want: that companies are no longer present in this country, and then we look forward to the fact that we no longer have exhaust gases, no more emissions, because we no longer have companies. No, we need to transport environmental protection with an eye and in the sense of a balance and accompany companies so that we have locations so that we have jobs and we can also live up to the idea of environmental protection. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28972	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e28993	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From Agenda items 30 to 33 I take a position on item 30, the passenger car consumer information law. Vehicle owners should be given very clear information about which vehicles can and may be refuelled with which fuels are available. This requires a change of law. Due to the increasing mobility of citizens and, above all, the diversity of fuels for motor vehicles, it is necessary to provide easy-to-understand information on the fuels offered at the fuel stations for motor vehicles and, above all, on the suitability of their own vehicles for different fuels. The background to this change in legislation, as mentioned by my previous speaker, is an EU directive on the construction of alternative fuel infrastructure. This EU Directive is to be transposed into national law. The great throw is not that. Of course, I'm afraid of one thing: We say again and again that we should not put too much burden on companies, businesses, traders – and here they have to implement regulations and regulations again, or the information in question, so that the consumer, the driver, the driver sees them. But let's take note of it as it is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29031	Next, Mr Fichtinger, speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29052	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! In addition to several amendments to legislation that will lead to improvements in consumer information and greenhouse gas emissions, two other issues are also discussed today in the debate on the environment: On the one hand, a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister of State to take action against nuclear waste at border level. This request was already approved by the Committee, and I assume that this unanimity will also be given here in plenary. Furthermore, we debate amendments to the 2000 Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where the correction of a cross-reference corrects a legal error and the issue of officials is also remedied. In addition, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Very briefly for the reason: The 2000 EIA Act does not contain any rules on the local competence of the authorities, which is why the AVG is applied. Due to the withdrawal of the species. 11 para. However, 8 B-VG by the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012 has been the command of mutual action by the spatially involved EIA authorities since 1.1.2014. Once again, according to § 3 Z 1 of the AVG, the competence has proved itself in practice, i.e., the competent authorities of the EIA have agreed on the section of the project located in their federal state. However, in order to avoid legal uncertainty, legislation should now be laid down to ensure that local competence is based on the situation of the project. We ask for broad support for this sensible legal clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29132	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29215	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29236	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Brunner has already mentioned how this is done in our committees today. Despite all this, I must say, Minister of State, dear government, that I have managed to find a majority with two requests. One concerns the report on the Krško frontier nuclear power plant, which is located 70 kilometres from Austria. This report, which you have gratefully sent to us, contains a request to the Federal Government or in the sense to you as a federal government. Minister. The report explicitly shows that Krško's earthquake safety is of the utmost importance because this nuclear power plant is on an earthquake line and that further measures are necessary here, including international geologists. Another point: A new and generally recognised assessment of earthquake hazards by independent experts should be completed as soon as possible. This means that there is a need for action here for the population in Austria, but also throughout Europe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point, which is essential to this report, is that the assessment of the threat of earthquakes should be based on reliable seismological data and that these data should be monitored in the future. This is the essential content that we have highlighted in this report. That's one. But what is worrying is that it took so long until we were aware of this report at all, so that we could have this issue here in Parliament too. That is the essential factor. A point has already been raised by Mr Höfinger, namely the border-near nuclear waste storage site, which is to be built in the vicinity of Lower Austria at a distance of only 25 kilometres. Apart from the fact that essential factors are against it, there is no scientific evidence as to how these waste dumps will ultimately affect in the coming years, decades and centuries. One of the potential dangers exists in the field of geology, i.e. the types of rocks. We know that there is mainly granite rock in this area, and we know with a hundred percent certainty that this type of rock is not suitable for a nuclear waste dump. We must, and this is also addressed to you, Mr Federal Minister, with all due diligence at EU level and of course also at national level, whether by legal means or by bilateral means, in order to have a vote in the EU Parliament on this issue. In conclusion: In the interests of the secure future of Austria and the health of our people, a border-near nuclear waste disposal and the operation of border nuclear power plants need to be prevented from exploiting all political, diplomatic and legal possibilities. I would ask you to become active in this respect and to use the time you still have as your minister constructively and meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29309	The next speaker is Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29331	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mrs Brunner has already mentioned the work in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I would like to say in advance that we will also actively support Agenda Points 30 to 33. We will also support the amendment. But the issue is already a deeper one for me, namely the question of why we have done so little environmental policy in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection over the last three and a half years. I would like to address two issues, because they are in fact a symbol of the standstill that we have experienced in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, blocked by the two government parties, and where, with all due regard, one must still ask: Is it cowardice? Is it lazy? Is it ignorance? – The result at the end of the day is that nothing has been done. The Aarhus Convention has already been discussed, which would be an important topic in the field of projects and, above all, in the sense of citizens' initiatives. I do not want to continue to deepen this, we NEOS have already worked intensively on it for the last two and a half years. On two other topics you can imagine very well: The first one I would like to mention is the 2014 climate change report, which is very comprehensive. 240 Austrian climate researchers have worked together on this report and have also drawn a common picture for Austria, which was at least worrying and worrying for every environmental politician and every environmental politician. I would like to quote key findings from this: "The climate change sufferers can be found in virtually all areas, especially agriculture, forestry, ecosystems, biodiversity, but also tourism and the health system. The economic effects of extreme weather events are already considerable in Austria and have increased over the last three decades. Climate-related reinforcement of such damage events would have a significant impact on the Austrian economy." Now you think of yourself as a citizen or citizen of this country: Oha, there's a lot about us! Tourism, agriculture, forestry and health are affected. This means, for example, a higher number of respiratory diseases, there are more walls, more avalanches, a damage to the economy and a higher level of damage to the insurance industry, and you think that someone will do something in the country now. – Puste cake, nothing happened! There were a number of applications, and I do not take any opposition party out here, all of them have submitted applications, and the government has come up with what has been set out by the European Union. Since there was no regulation where there was no directive, there was no measure in Austria. On things that had already been promised in 2014, for example, a climate and energy strategy, I could now repeat: Puste cake. We have offered that we will in fact also contribute to content. Nothing has happened; no motivation, neither for people nor for the economy in this country, nor respect for Parliament. On the question of motivation – I mentioned this at the outset – perhaps cowardice, possibly laziness, possibly ignorance. A second and last point, which I would also like to address here: There was a very serious incident in the Görtzitz valley in Carinthia, where the wrong processing of blue lime first contaminated the soil and then the agriculture, and then was poisoned by hexachlorobenzene, in short HCB, also part of the population, particularly affected to infants and children. There was a citizens' initiative that turned to Parliament, there were very concrete demands in the sense of legislative proposals, there was a state government in Carinthia, which was relatively incompetent in this matter, there were people poisoned, and it was not certain that this would not happen again in the future. What was the government's reaction? – There were a few small measures, a little bit on the website, a change to the Environmental Information Act, but the major topics were not addressed. I stay with the previous wording: Puste cake! Ignorance, laziness or cowardice, I cannot say it, I can only judge the result, and that is dissatisfying.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29388	Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter has made a statement next time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29409	Madam President. High house! I would just like to take a very brief position on the government template concerning the novels of the fluorinated greenhouse gas law, because it is also a very important law in implementation in climate protection policy, and that is not to be explained. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== October is obviously a good date – last year decided in Kigali, when it is implemented in this way – and we decide today to implement this amendment of the Kigali Agreement in Austria – in our climate target of 0.5 degrees. That is to say, this is already a very important contribution to our 2 degree goal, which should not really be small here. Austria has already ratified the amendment, and we are now fully in implementation with this decision-making process. Mr Bernhard, by the way, I would also like to focus on what you have just said. We have just held a very constructive debate in the last Committee on the Environment. I am also very grateful to Mr Rauch for stressing our unanimous decision on two motions for resolutions on anti-atomic policy, on Krško and also on the question of a border location of a nuclear waste storage site, such as in the Czech Republic. That was a very constructive debate. I would also like to stress this in the light of the fact that Mrs Brunner, currently chairman of the Environment Committee, is negotiating with us the eco-electric novels. I hope that it will be possible to achieve a compromise here, which is also important and necessary, especially in the direction of strengthening renewable energy sources. I would like to stress – and I would also like to thank you for this – that, in principle, we have always had a common goal in the debate in all differing views: to maintain this quality of life and to make some progress on the environmental situation in this country. I would like to express my express thanks to the opposition parties too, of course we have always had this basic assessment in the government groups. I would also like to point out a contribution to e-mobility together with the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, amounting to € 72 million, the strongest boost package for e-mobility for this and next year. That's not nothing! In the same way, the municipal investment package has succeeded in providing communities with about one third of these € 175 million, i.e. € 60 million, for climate protection-related measures in this year and next year. financing to provide support. This will strengthen and promote investment in the thermal renovation of public buildings, in energy efficiency measures in the communities outside. This too will make a massive contribution to achieving our climate objectives. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29455	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29476	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly report on some of the proposals and initiatives. First, Walter Rauch's requestAccompaniment of the final report of the expert workshop on the seismic risk of the KR Krško nuclear power station. The message: We're refusing atomic current! The following is a motion for a resolution: Action against border-by-border nuclear waste dumps; introduced and adopted unanimously. Our message: We're refusing atomic current! Under the direction of my dear colleague Stephan Pernkopf, 63 680 signatures are collected in Lower Austria within three weeks against the expansion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant. The message: We're refusing atomic current! Finally, quite up-to-date: In Lower Austria, a signature action is being launched by Mrs Mikl- Leitner and Mr Pernkopf, with the aim of not building nuclear waste dumps in the border area in the Czech Republic. And then, and now it comes, I'm allowed to be a guest at a big demo last week for the conclusion of the Ecostrom Act. What's the connection now? There is a picture of the activists at Heroes Square, and on the transparency stands: “Whoever turns off green electricity turns up nuclear power!” Now, if you're going to turn this around, Eco electricity replaces nuclear power and coal flow. This also has economic aspects, because the nuclear current and also the coal stream, when purchased as a peak current and electricity in winter, are very, very expensive. For this reason, I do not understand the hesitant attitude when it comes to the negotiations on the eco-stromnovel. It is a need for us to decide on this novel so that less purchasing power flows abroad and regional economic cycles are strengthened with us and we provide another building block towards climate protection and environmental protection in this country. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you for your commitment in this direction. We are on a good path, and I hope there will be an agreement in these minutes. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29525	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29547	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer briefly to the government template for reducing the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. Es This is a novel of the 2009 law, and this implementation of an EU regulation takes a deeper step than the current legal standard. What's the goal? – The aim is to reduce the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases to a fifth by 2030. Where are these greenhouse gases actually used? – They are mainly used in fixed air conditioning and cooling systems, fire protection systems, high-voltage switching systems and as fuel gas in sprays. And even if it is in the discussion, when it says that emissions have to be reduced, there is often the argument that this is damaging the economic location and also the employment location, the opposite is the case! Why? – In the course of the gradual reduction of total emissions by 2019, alternative products are used: Gases that are less harmful but already on the market; I am talking about refrigerants like Butan and Propan. Cooling and freezing equipment manufacturers in Europe, especially in Europe, have partially switched to these new substances, some of them completely, and I am thinking above all of control plants in Styria, which are market leaders. Another aspect: At present, there is a trend to install air conditioning and cooling systems in private homes. This is about raising awareness, perhaps not choosing this variant, but rather putting it on alternative building materials, or also on alternative energies. That's exactly the reason I wanted to address earlier. This means innovation potential, and we know that Austria is in public investment for innovation, research in a remarkable European excellence, and this innovation potential needs to be used. This has a positive impact on location, economic location and employment. Ladies and gentlemen! With today's decision, we are taking a very important step against further climate warming. I'm looking for broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29592	The next item is the speech by Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29613	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) When the Chernobyl accident occurred in April 1986, our country was very shaken. I can still remember very well the great uncertainty of the population, which at that time was brought along and, of course, even more uncertain by the sparse information. Even years later, an increased radioactivity was demonstrated both in mushrooms and at my former workplace at the glacier, and not too long ago, namely in 2011, the Fukushima reactor accident drew the attention of the world and further insecured the people. We assume that today's nuclear power plants are safe to a certain degree – if everything works. But reality shows us that accidents happen again and again. Just as important as the question of nuclear safety is also the question: What's going on with the nuclear waste? Where's the radioactive waste? In Austria, due to the strong voices of Austrians who once opposed the Zwentendorf nuclear power plant, we gave a discharge to the nuclear power plant. However, radioactivity does not stop at borders, and for Austria can therefore become a major problem for nuclear power plants and any nuclear waste disposal sites along our border. That is why we must be very careful about what is happening in our neighbouring countries. The discussion about a nuclear waste disposal camp in the region north of the forest district is a constant source of uncertainty. Here, the Minister for the Environment is strongly urged to oppose the establishment of nuclear waste disposal sites close to the border. I myself come from a region in which hydropower is a symbol of clean energy and economic recovery. I am very glad that this is the case and therefore I am very glad that Mr Feichtinger, Mr Hoefinger and Mr Rauch have tabled this motion for a resolution. Of course, I hope that everyone will agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29659	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Draft federal law amending the passenger car consumer information law, including the title and receipt in 1630 of the supplements. Whoever speaks out for this bill, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Draft federal law amending the Fluorinated GHG Act 2009, together with the title and receipt in 1666 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Draft Federal Act amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 in 1710 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Höfinger, Dr Feichtinger, colleagues. I will therefore first vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. MEPs Höfinger, Dr. Feichtinger, colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment which provides for a new paragraph 4 in § 39 and changes the numbering of the amendments accordingly. Who gives his consent to this? - That's the majority. It's accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law the approval in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 33: First of all, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1711 concerning the introduction of the final report of the expert workshop on the seismic threat of the Krško nuclear power station to the National Council. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 213.) We shall also vote on the resolution on intervention against border-related nuclear waste dumps annexed to the Committee's report in 1711. Who gives this the consent? – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 214.) [[21:37:55]] 34. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on compliance in the field of public procurement and human resources in the field of social security – Series Bund 2017/7 (III-358/1745 D.B.) 35. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on ‘Come Back’ inclusion aid from the AMS; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/25 series (III-391/1749 d.b.) 36. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on asset management of selected health and accident insurance providers; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/26 series (III-392/1750 d.b.) 37. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on workers' protection; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/17 series (III-371/1751 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29842	We now come to points 34 to 37 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I very much welcome the President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Kraker. First of all, Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29872	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! A report of the Court of Auditors, which we are discussing today, deals with compliance, i.e. compliance with rules, with social security schemes, with AUVA, PVA and BVA in particular. In this report, the lack of an automatic compliance system is criticized. To this end: Social security schemes have a number of internal control systems and control mechanisms: Four-eye principle, clear division of functions on the basis of a Rules of Procedure and due to legal provisions, internal revision, control assembly. This is to be equated with an audit body in the municipalities, i.e. an audit committee. This Control Assembly shall be responsible for the conduct review. In addition, various legislations are binding, for example, accounting rules. I'm allowed to hold: Social security schemes have very good administrative structures. Of course, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, it is also an important task to review these structures. This is necessary, but as you see, these work, and the insurance companies work with the existing mechanisms very well. The Court of Auditors has also criticised procurement and human resources, and it must be said that the social security institutions have already adopted further measures. I would like to comment briefly on a point of criticism: It is criticized that the PVA has rejected more curative applications than the BVA. Well, the number of approved spa stays correlates directly with the financial resources available for this purpose. If we want to change this, in the sense of equality in the right to benefit, then the discussion about it is more than welcome. If you really want to have this equality of service, you need a change of law. Only: Until now, we have not found a majority in this House. As I said, we would very much welcome the discussion on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29910	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29931	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! The compliance directives in the field of procurement and human resources in the three social security bodies have been reviewed, as my previous speaker has already said. It was about compliance management, medical reha and all the personnel. The aim of this audit was to see whether legality, effectiveness and efficiency are respected in selected processes in the three social security institutions. In addition, the Court of Auditors has involved the main association, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Inges- There have been 120 recommendations, i.e. a very complex Court of Auditors report. Of course, the social security sector also includes a large government apparatus, and I believe we should assume that there will be more common ground here in the future, and that there can be common ground in terms of compliance management, as far as internal revision is concerned, but also in terms of the entire area of spa and reha, where there should be a more precise implementation. In this context, my predecessor has already said that there are differences in the approval of curs by the PVA and in the field of civil service insurance. The report clearly shows that there are opportunities to increase efficiency. The data bases should be better used among themselves. Reha rates and rehab procedures should also be adapted to current and transparent tariff calculations. In my view, this Court of Auditors report is a clear task to establish a certain equality and reliability, but also comparability and justice in the area of spas and rehab. The Court of Auditors' report shows the shortcomings described, and in the sense of fairness to people who need spa and rehab, we should proceed in accordance with the principle of sparing, expediency, as well as the certainty of meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29973	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e29995	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Now again very briefly for performance harmonisation, because here it is clear that, for example, the Vienna regional health insurance fund has not approved any spa applications at all. Performance harmonisation is an archival requirement of our liberals. Mrs Greiner! I say something to you now because you say there is no parliamentary majority here: I don't know who failed, but I can remember that already in 2008 – and at that time the ÖVP still called for the Minister of Health or the Minister of Health – a performance harmonisation and the Minister of Health has set this prospect in view. She hasn't come to this day – neither among ÖVP health ministers nor among SPÖ health ministers. I'm actually wondering why. And now this is being pushed and pushed on again. Performance harmonisation is the most just thing there can be at all. There is still a second Court of Auditors report here on the debate, which deals with health insurance and the expenditure situation and the financial situation of health insurance. There is also a clear indication of inactivity, especially in the years 2011 to 2014. At that time, today's Minister of Health Stöger was the Minister of Health, who took the view in the Committee on the Court of Auditors: Yes, you're asking me? That's what the Minister of Health is about! - No, it's been in his term of office. As early as 2013, I asked him a question because there was a call from the Supervisory Board of the Vienna Regional Health Fund for the policy that the Vienna Regional Health Fund does not produce any surpluses at all from the normal conduct. Minister of Health Stöger stood up at the time and said: Everything's great, and all the checkouts are owen! – And the Supervisory Board itself, the highest body of the Vienna County Hospital, has said: That is not right, it is simply a surplus due to the subsidies of the fresh money from the cash fund and the debt of the Federal Finance Agency and the proceeds of the compensation fund! We have continued to do so, and now we have a report on the Court of Auditors, which confirms precisely this criticism. In reality, this shows that there is a massive failure in the area of social security, in the area of financing, but also in the field of performance harmonisation. And this is the account of the inactive Minister of Health in the years 2011 to 2014, namely today's Minister of Social Affairs Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30037	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30058	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to expressly thank you for this comprehensive, very informative report, which contains as many recommendations as hardly one or rarely one of the Court of Auditors, i.e. 120 recommendations on, as I believe, more than 13 or 18 pages. I now regard this as a large to-do list and as a contract of action, not only to us but also to the social insurance companies that have been examined, namely the PVA, the BVA and also the AUVA. It is a task to the main association, to the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and in so far as it is mildly expressing it, it is disappointing that Minister Stöger, who is not here today – perhaps the government parties, but above all the people from his own group – is able to do this to him, which takes a bit of a picture by saying: Well, compliance, that's a fashion word, that's nothing but the control structures we've had before, and there you have to look at a little, but in the end, everything's okay! The report tells us that there are very many inconsistencies that have to be dealt with very much. Much is not understandable for people, especially for the spas and rehabilitation measures mentioned above. You can break down all that sounds very abstract in the report to practice and life by asking yourself: Under what conditions is a reha approved, for which reasons is one sent to cure, according to which criteria will the decisions be taken? I know of cases where people for which outpatient spas would be better, which would be even cheaper, are sent to a long spa stay and everything else is excluded. So, it's a lot of trouble and it's a lot to do. I would really like to see this inefficiency and transparency finally end, that this report will be taken out at the latest in the next period of government and that the social insurance companies are really instructions and mandates – and also all of us here. There are also recommendations to the legislator, which means so much that we should take it and look at what we can make easier and more transparent in the sense of the insured, because it cannot be that self-management and internal control are incompatible with each other. It must be in the sense of all of us doing this. It is also to be hoped that we will also: to achieve a uniformity of social security institutions as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30098	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30119	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This report is incredible. Citizens who have a good nervous costume should read it through once so that they can get a sense of what is happening in the Austrian social security scheme. The Committee was even more incredible. Such things should be public, and the actions of the Minister should be made public. That was really scandalous. On the content of the report. – It has already been ruptured: Kuren appears to be given arbitrarily. The Wiener und der Tiroler Landeskrankenkasse does not grant any cures at all, in Carinthia each 90 000th insured person receives a cure, in the Upper Austria of every 177th, in the official insurance of every sixth insured person in the year and in the railways of each fourth. So between every 90 000th and every fourth we have the span. This is the Austrian system; there can be no question of justice. And then the question could not even be answered in this committee: Is the health insurance part paying the cure to the mixed carriers – railway insurance for example and the SVA – or is the pension insurance part paying the cure? This makes a difference, because in the case of a deficient pension insurance institution, the taxpayer has to pay the default; in the case of health insurance, it looks different. This could not be answered despite multiple requests. The Minister calls compliance a fashion word, you don't take it so seriously. As awards are made freely after nasal peaks, carefully said, and the Court of Auditors complains that the members of the control assembly in the insurance companies do not have the competence to assess what is going on and have no professional competence to exercise control. That's clear, too, because you don't have to be able to get in there, but you only have to be with the right party, because then the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce send you in there, and you have its seat and you can take a little extra income off. That's what it's all about! It is not a question of competence, it is not a question of control, it is about the red and black economy which has been extended there, and unfortunately this had to be dealt with in this non-public committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30162	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30184	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Keywords: Non-public committee. There is already a difference in the Court of Auditors' committees. Madam President, you may confirm that there is already a difference in all different positions, in all the criticisms, namely that the debates are very constructive, that very open debate is being held and that, even if you do not always agree, you really try to go to the bottom, and at least you are willing to accept the criticisms of the other. The debate in the Court of Auditors was at least very professional in contrast to the debates we are having here today, and it was a very open debate. These cuts, which are taking place here in plenary, do nothing good. We have heard it today, there are 120 recommendations, there is nothing to say Polish: All this is crazy, it doesn't work! Then: There are areas that work excellently, there are many areas where we need to get better. Performance harmonisation is also a topic. There are cash registers that are so good that they can accumulate large deposits. There are cash registers that are more financially difficult, in which the benefits are then not available to the extent that they are available as with the others. This is also a question of justice. Yes, we need to get better, but I ask that we really try to discuss this subject a little more differentiated at a later stage. This issue will accompany us even further. A large study on the efficiency of the Austrian social security funds is being prepared by the LSE. We will therefore continue to discuss this issue. I would simply ask that, despite later hours and all the emotions in this area, we try to move the Committee's debate culture to the High House.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30216	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30237	Estimated women presidents! High house! I should also like to comment briefly on the subject of compliance with social security schemes. PVA, official insurance and AUVA have been examined and I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very much for this very interesting report. It always shakes up, an effect that the Court of Auditors always has, and thereby improves. I very much appreciate that, and I therefore thank you for this interesting report. There are three issues which I have taken out of the report and which I now want to highlight a little closer. This is once the PVA's rejection rate of 20 to 30 percent, where it was about spa and rehabs. The Court of Auditors criticises the fact that this has not been done properly and points out that it is necessary to look more closely and use the entire health record to be fairer. On the other hand, the PVA has taken over 58 000 cases of rehab and spa stays worth € 318 million, where in the future the Ministry has to act even more effectively on social security that this competence is out of place. Some inconsistencies occurred during the organization: It is too little compared that the tariffs are too low, that farms are not necessarily used for cost reasons. I believe that there is a need for action. You have to do everything you can to make social security more cost-effective. Overall, however, the spa and rehab facilities are a very important part of our health system. I would like to conclude by thanking the Court of Auditors, but also all the social insurance companies for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30275	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30298	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Court of Auditors reports are always a good basis for work for us; I have said this more often from this place. Therefore: Thank you very much for this comprehensive report. The Court of Auditors carried out in 2015 an examination of the general accident insurance institution, AUVA, the public servant's insurance institution, the BVA, and the pension insurance institution, the PVA. The focus was on compliance management – we have already heard: a noble word – more specifically, on the performance rate in the spa and rehab, as well as on the procurement and personnel industries. The report contains 120 recommendations to the three insurance companies as well as to the main association and to the relevant ministries. Points of criticism concern Areas such as the organisation and the legal basis, the approval practice of cur and reha stays – we have already heard – and a lack of procurement overview with a breakdown of 73 organisational units and a lack of uniform IT support and strategic requirements, as well as no binding service plans and rules on job registrations and job vacancies. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is interesting, even though different insurances take over mutual benefits: There are always people who are sent on spa, although they don't want to, and other people who need an urgent rehab stay don't get it. So, there are already abuses that are urgently eliminated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30325	Now the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors is speaking on behalf of the Commission. - Mrs. Dr. Kraker, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30347	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address this report briefly and explain what the objective or objectives of this report were, because this is an essential report, a very comprehensive report. I would also like to thank the audit team of the Court of Auditors, which has really systematically dealt with compliance in social security. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] The aim was to assess essential and selected processes at the Pension Insurance Institute, the BVA and the AUVA in terms of legality, effectiveness and efficiency. Why have these three social security schemes been selected? – Because compliance problems have occurred with all three insurance companies, and that was actually the trigger for the examination, so one has looked at what it takes to implement systematic compliance management in the field of social security. The evaluation was carried out in the field of procurement, personnel and the provision of services in the health and rehabilitation sector. As you have already said and also said, there are 120 recommendations. These recommendations are addressed to the institutions concerned, to the main association and to the two ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. visual authorities. The recommendations are to be understood as an appeal for professionalization. At the same time, however, I would like to stress - and we have also noted this in the report - that: Of course, we do not want to intervene in self-management, but we make an objective contribution to further development. It was discussed in depth last week about compliance and the question of compliance management in general. What is compliance? – The aim is to lay down principles and measures aimed at ensuring a consistent practice of a body itself and its staff. I'd like to hold on: Compliance is not a mere vocabulary, a functioning compliance system is becoming increasingly important. I believe that in all areas: It is a very positive factor – also for a location, also for Austria as a whole – if there is a functioning compliance system in the public institutions. Compliance requires the definition of objectives, assessment of risks, the taking of measures and a regular evaluation. A systematic compliance approach should not be confused with individual controls, it is about professionalization and compliance with standards. If a compliance system works, then you can rely that processes and processes also work. I want to mention a few more numbers: A total of more than 12 700 employees were employed by the audited social insurance companies, and the total cost of AUVA was € 1.4 billion and the PVA, the pension insurance institution, € 32 billion, so there is a right to look at it. We have found that the division of tasks between the Board of Directors and staff was not adequate in view of the high complexity, and due to the inadequate division of tasks, control gaps were possible, in particular in carrying out strategic tasks and a continuous control of operational decisions. Criticism: All three institutions did not have an explicit compliance management system, and the auditing depth of the control meetings and also the responsibilities of the internal revisions was not considered sufficient by the Court of Auditors. As far as the financing structure is concerned, there are, of course, also poor incentives. In the field of pension insurance, it is so that in the end the federal government has to bear any additional expenses, and both the PVA and AUVA had a high purity. It then responded to a reduction in contributions, and thus efficiency gains also led to a reduction in revenue. In our view, it would be more appropriate to set real incentives and to ensure that, for example, a economical personnel management is paid out. Rehabilitation was a voluntary service of the pension insurance institution, and we have found that in this area there was above all an unclear legal basis and unclear terms for demarcation between curing and rehabilitation. This is not a sufficient basis for proper execution. There is also a need for improvement. We have missed a cross-border presentation of the effort for medical rehabilitation and cures. According to the Court of Auditors calculations, it is about an amount of more than EUR 1 billion. There is a lack of reliable statistics on the approval practice of each institution, and we have missed a firm business classification. The number of stays has increased considerably in recent years. By about 70 percent, the largest increase in rehabilitation and thus in pension insurance was due. In addition to spas and rehabilitations, there were further procurement operations in other areas, which had a delivery volume of around €14 billion, also missing corresponding specifications. It is always about respecting procurement principles, non-discrimination and transparency. In the field of other procurement, there is a procurement volume of around €424 million in 2014. There was a total of 73 organizational units, as there was a lack of uniform IT support. In this area too, strategic objectives with operational requirements are necessary, and the internal requirements for obtaining comparative offers were not sufficient. This is now a small extract from the really comprehensive report. I appeal to you, and above all to the audited bodies, to accept these potential for improvement and to work it out consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30435	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 34: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-358 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the adoption of this report to give an appropriate signal. . The report has been adopted unanimously. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 35: Request by the Court of Auditors to take account of the report III-391 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the adoption of this report to give an appropriate signal. . The report has been adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on agenda item 36: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of the III-392 report of the Supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? . The report has been adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take account of the report III-371 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? . The report has been adopted unanimously. [[22:06:17]] 38. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2016/3 (III-247/1746 d.b.) 39. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors Series Bund 2016/1 (III-229/1747 d.b.) 40. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2015/15 (III-213/1748, d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30554	We now come to points 38 to 40 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30582	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps on the previous point: Mr Kucher has explained the different perceptions that one has of discussing problems in the Committee quite objectively and then hearing the same thing here in the House. From my point of view, we have been doing what the word compliance means – control and accompanying measures – for some time, just not under that term. This was also expressed in this way, so it cannot be explained otherwise, it has been pointed out earlier what the Ministry of Health is responsible for as the supervisory authority. However, in the field of social security – without the measures that are mostly positive – the positive proposals for improvement that need to be taken into account – one should also make the international comparison. Do this, do the comparison, look at how it is in Germany, how it is in the famous Switzerland, where not even all are subject to compulsory insurance, but which is much more expensive, offers much less performance, and where there is much higher administrative burden! I do not want to speak this and also the criticism right now, but if you want to have a proven, good system sickened, sickened or sickened, or even to abolish what many want, I think, then you should first also say what is better, which comparison there is. The second area: Since we only have a very short speaking time and no longer have any remaining speaking time, I have to do it very briefly. As I have seen in the Presidential Protocol, there is no longer a Committee on the Court of Auditors, as three committees have been mentioned, which have, as I have been told, also asked no one to discuss, so there is no longer a new Committee on the Court of Auditors' report. Since I am no longer going to run for the Court of Auditors, I would like to thank you, Madam President, and your colleagues in the House very much for their work. You know, we very much appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors, it is the prerequisite we need to take measures here in the House with sound arguments. In this case, it should be noted that there is a We do this very strongly within our own government group, namely all the employees. I would also like to say that you have managed well – your competence was never in question, but your proximity to the ÖVP has made us worry – to keep this distance. I hope that it will continue to be so in the future, then, I believe, this is an important argument. I would like to ask all Members to make use of the Court of Auditors as much as possible. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30630	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30675	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to look at the Court of Auditors' report on the right of retirement of social security staff – this was a follow-up review – and of course the right of occupational pension was also examined accordingly. The Court of Auditors criticises that the main association has only partially implemented the recommendation from the 2012 preliminary report. The main association carried out a reform of the Service Regulations in 2014. The Service Regulations are the rules governing the right to serve, including pension rights, for social security staff. However, according to the Court of Auditors, scope and impact of this reform were not the same as it proposed, or did not bring about the savings that would have been possible with the implementation of all proposed measures. On the basis of a model calculation, it was found that there would have been a savings potential of €1.15 billion. However, the evolution of this service brought only € 144 million. This is, of course, a very big delta. However, it is also fair to say that social security schemes have, in addition to the Court's proposals, put in place saving measures. For example, in 2015, the old law entered into force that in the years 2016 to 2020 the annual adjustments of supplementary pensions to the statutory pension were made by the reduced factor. This corresponds to a savings potential of around €200 million. In addition, the increase in the actual retirement age between 2011 and 2016 was made by 1.86 years in men and by 2.07 years in women. There is also a savings potential of around € 215 million. Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, it is crucial that such approximation measures be adopted; and, of course, all the benefits that the individual groups put into the system are taken into account in these approximation measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30708	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30730	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In my speech, I refer to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, The audit report by the rail infrastructure service company and would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for this informative report. This report gives deep insights into the political black- or red-box – depending on how you want to call it – the SCHIG. In particular, it raises a question of whether this outsourcing has met the demands put in them at the time. Although this saved staff costs in BMVIT, it continued to spend resources. BMVIT therefore finances 80 percent of the budget of SCHIG. That's €5.28 million, and they're still coming from the ministry. The question, of course, is: What's going to do with these money? – I would subsume it like this: It is simply a highly paid awarding agency with political background, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have been talking about quotas before, and I really can say, after this Court of Auditors report, that: A quota was observed in the SCHIG, which is the rate of red workers, which must be clearly erased. One really celebrates the joyous origins. Thus, despite the reduction in staff, the staff costs have been increased, from €6.7 million to €6.9 million. The question is, of course, as follows: What's the reason? Now you can say: Good thing that the speakers there in SCHIG earn 0.5 percent more than in the ministry, there you can still see about it, but that the experts, and especially those are very much also politically connected, there earn 21 percent more than the average official with the same qualification in the ministry, which is already very interesting. Why can you do that in SCHIG? – Quite simply, because, of course, Parliament’s right to interact with one another by means of the outsourcings. So we can't check what's going on in this red box. One simply broke the basic consensus that there are the same conditions for the employees as in the ministry, namely the same wage. This has been completely overstepped. So what are the experts doing there? - They're out of stock. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is really the great scandal that can be drawn from this report: They're out of core areas. For example, I would like to refer to the project Unterinntal. A technical infrastructure check was carried out there. It has been largely outsourced. The Court of Auditors is right to say: Why is that out? This is a core area that is constantly needed. It's out of stock and it's not going to be able to build up know-how, ladies and gentlemen. And that's exactly the point. So what is our conclusion from this Court of Auditors report? – This outsourcing was perhaps meant well at some point, but it was made worse. One has deprived the SCHIG of parliamentary control. They have been made a political feed biotope of the SPÖ. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need to think of a return, of a return to the ministry. That's where you should make some sort of order. And I can only tell you one thing: ==References== On October you can continue to do this, then we will take care of the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30778	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30801	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to thank the report which was discussed at the previous item on the agenda and also to point out that it is essential that Members use the resources of the Court of Auditors so that control can be exercised and malaise is shown. We Greens, in particular, have tried to bring light into this large building of social security, and these headlights of the Court of Auditors have revealed and raised misunderstandings in a number of ways. Fortunately, there are also numerous recommendations. Only: Now it is necessary for these recommendations to be implemented; and there you, Madam President, have the instrument of follow-up tests. Now we have a agenda item with relatively many follow-up tests, which show that despite the Court of Auditors reports, there are many things in the arsenal that some do not change either. And this is again the task of parliamentarians, since they have to re-trace and put their hands on these shortcomings again, so that they can really change something and use tax money, which is ultimately being discussed at all these points again and again, correctly and responsibly, for it is the task of the Court of Auditors to pay attention to it. We are talking relatively constructively in the Committee, and ministers too are quite ready to speak in advance – except for some exceptions. I would now like to refer to two or three of these 15 reports, which are dealt with on their own in this one item on the agenda. We are already talking about the Court of Auditors' effort and the short time that we in Parliament are using to do so. This is, for example, a follow-up review on the ÖPUL agricultural environment programme. The Court of Auditors is strongly criticised at the Ministry of the Environment, at the Ministry of Agriculture. The need for improvement is serious: define regionally differentiated premiums. The Court of Auditors also criticises that there are no impact indicators there and that no differentiation of state improvement and state preservation was established in the 2015 targets. Yes, when is the Minister of Agriculture finally doing something in this direction? That's money, money, money. The money flows somewhere, and it is not or too little target-oriented. The Court of Auditors always points out this, but that – how to say? – Agricultural grenades do not care much about it comparatively. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Schimanek and Mr Aslan.]] Another follow-up report concerns the Urban Development Fund, one of my body and life themes. It's a historical subject. You know, this Parliament, too, is standing on the ground and ground of the Glacis, the former defence glacis around the city center of Vienna, which was more or less imperial. Now this land and land has been sold so that you can afford yourself magnificent buildings, including this magnificent Parliament. Interestingly, there was the proposal from the Court of Auditors – and I have read it again – to disband this urban extension fund in 1961, because it has actually become obsolete, and it would have been impossible to allow its assets to flow to the budget or invest in other useful areas. - But no. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] What prompted the emperor, namely the city extension fund into the sovereignty of police management – which is perhaps a more modern expression – the Imperial Ministry of Police remained upright. This urban expansion fund has been in the hands of the Ministry of the Interior for a long, long time, for decades. And in this Ministry of the Interior, around two funds have developed an insatiably friendly economy. These were the Urban Development Fund and the Integration Fund, intertwined by the same persons who were there and there managing directors. And these managing directors brought it to light, as the Court of Auditors noted, that out of this former imperial property, interesting foundations were created out of this now public-public assets and that donations flowed, for example, that the managing directors of this fund would then receive magnificent papal orders. So also the former imperial assets and later republic assets were good. However, this fund has still managed properties and real estates, such as – also important for defenses – the Mölker Bastei. Now there have been – the Court of Auditors has already criticized it in 2013 – operations in the sale of property, which are still pending in court. In some cases one has not signed out or sold under the price, has actually gone beyond any tendering or awarding directives and has simply thrown up assets. Another example is still the area around the hay market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Also the hay market was once part of the Glacis, even the hay market was then sold as a fund property. How did you sell the hay market? – This is also very interesting. I love the Court of Auditors' report passionately, which replaces me with every criminal novel. I tell you, really, read him, he's a bit bulky in the formulation, there's no James Bond, but there seems to be always refined jugglers with real estate. And in this hay market, the Court of Auditors has already found in 2013 that not even half of the price actually worth the land has been sold. [[Abg. Schimanek: Mrs Colleague, the Greens voted in favour of this!]] I mean, 9 million € would have been worth the terrain on which the Vienna Eislaufverein unfolds its leisure activities, but no, no, you can sell this to a non-profit housing company, which only retains public utility, because it still wanders into Eisenstadt, and then loses its common utility. [[Abg. Schimanek: You voted in favour!]] Then, this former non-profit housing company, which has acquired it, which is nicely called “fine living”, is born into a project company, Lothringerstraße 22. Then there are three private foundations involved, and all of this goes to another institution, with 25 percent, Bernhard Steindl still has shares. And then it's all sold to Tojner in 2012. Then, at once, the construction plan changes. Previously, there was a building block, so it was so cheap. Madam President, you know that €9 million has been an occasion. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Speculation! Classic speculation!]] In fact, if the Vienna Spatial Planning, the Wiener Baubauplan had been different, you would have got 40 million € at the time. In the hay market – worth € 40 million, estimated at € 9 million at the time – you have won € 4 million. And this tojner, this Mr. Ddr. Tojner, the whole thing has acquired at a price that we don't know about. Now there is not only a new intercontinental, there is a new residential tower. And what once was the property of a non-profit housing company becomes a kind of luxury establishment, and the Republic looked through its fingers. [[Abg. Schimanek: Gabi, why did you vote in favour?]] The city expansion fund has also looked through its fingers. The Urban Development Fund should have been dissolved for a long time. The resolution story is an extra story. There are three runs until it succeeds. And I still owe the last real estate question to Mr Sobotka: He has promised to be in the committee – you are my witness, Madam President – and he tells me who bought the reasons in Eberau, where it was planned to set up an asylum and reception centre. Mrs Fekter could tell us more about this. The project has not been realized, the reasons were then sold. But I'm really interested now, I know the history of this city expansion fund from other real estate sales, that was always a business among friends. And with this Eberau property, the Minister has still not explained to us who bought it at what price. Madam President, we need a follow-up report from the follow-up report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30898	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30919	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the High house! In this series of reports, I would like to focus on a report which has taken the financial forecasts of the health insurance companies to the fore and found: The forecasts are often worse than the actual result. It is not logical, however, to explain how this comes about. The Court of Auditors shall formulate the proposed presumption as follows: It should not be the goal to write the forecasts so badly that they are always surpassed afterwards. It is known that the health insurance companies always say at the beginning of the year: It's a giant disaster, we'll have a huge hole. The more negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry, negotiations with the Ministry of Finance take place, the better the figures will be. And suddenly we have a plus at the end of the year. The figures are so poorly forecast that the Ministry of Finance for the Development of the Cash Office makes its own prognosis because one cannot rely on what comes from social security. We have to ask ourselves if the efficiency is the way we imagine it in Austria, if we make the same prognosis in two places twice, because we cannot rely on what is going to happen at one end. This is the way in which social security policies are made with wrong figures. The Court also discussed the implementation of an earlier report on supplementary pensions. The estimated voters would like to see 320 million € spent on supplementary pensions for their own employees each year in social insurance. They are told that the pensions are safe, but the staff at the pension insurance institution, in the local health insurance fund you pay extra pensions, € 320 million a year. As a result, the Court of Auditors has raised a savings potential of €1.15 billion. Of this, only € 114 million was realized, because of course you have to protect your own red and black artists. That's their priority.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30953	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e30976	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President of the Court of Auditors! In my statement, I refer to the partial report of the Court of Auditors on the field of agriculture-environmental programme ÖPUL 2007. The Ministry of Agriculture only partially complied with the Court of Auditors' recommendations in this respect, even reducing the measures of the 2007 OPUL programme from 29 to 22. The Court of Auditors sees the need for improvement here, including in the definition of regionally differentiated premiums. Similarly, there was no differentiation of state improvement and maintenance in the target definition of ÖPUL 2015. The Court of Auditors sees positive – and I would like to point out, in part, that the calculation of premiums is based on up-to-date data and yield-enhancing effects are taken into account in the payment of premiums. In the current funding period from 2015 to 2020, €3.23 billion are planned for public service 2015 and €1.59 billion of national co-financing is integrated into this amount. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that the talks for the new CAP period, the common agricultural policy, have already begun at EU level from 2020 onwards. I see the emphasis on the fact that, in the overall rural development programme, Social services in rural regions need to be provided with more financial resources. The main focus is on the further intensive development of childcare, care and broadband in rural regions. I therefore call on the responsible representative of Austria, who is Minister for Agriculture Rupprechter – unfortunately he is no longer here – to work in the negotiations with the EU for these priorities in the field of rural development, namely for more resources for social services, for people in the rural regions. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31013	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31035	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In this report of March 2016, the Court of Auditors devoted itself to financial management of health insurance. In this context, he also carried out an examination of the conduct, which focused on the years 2009 to 2013. The purpose of the review was to assess the quality of the birth plans, the suitability of the financial objectives of the 2009 to 2013 cash recovery package, the upper limits of the health reform 2012 to 2016, and the sustainability of the financial development of the Steiermärkische Gebietskrankenkasse, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and the BVA, while further examinations were carried out with the said institutions and the main association of the Austrian social security funds and the Federal Ministry of Health. Maybe we remember, at least I do this: Due to financial problems of some health insurance companies, a cash recovery package was launched in 2009 with federal funds of around €1.3 billion, which should result in expenditure reductions of around €1.7 billion. That was the case, too. All the institutions achieved a reduction in expenditure. the reorganisation of the operating result, particularly because there have been favourable developments in the medicinal products sector. During this period, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse benefited significantly from the federal funds and thereby increased and improved the clean assets. However, the Court of Auditors criticises that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse could not achieve sustainable rehabilitation, while the Styrian Landeskrankenkasse was able to do so. This was partly due to the fact that the Steiermärkische Landeskrankenkasse set itself medium-term strategic objectives and also set further measures outside the financial objectives, which did not take place in Vienna. In general, according to the Court of Auditors' report, the problem was that the financial targets and the expenditure ceilings were no longer suitable by 2016 due to actual development and were nevertheless incorporated into the target management system of the main association and health insurance companies. In general, it is to be said that none of the three audited institutions had clearly formulated internal financial objectives to achieve a revenue-oriented expenditure policy. This led, according to the Court of Auditors' report, to the fact that economic, economical and appropriate financial management of health insurance companies could not be ensured. It can only be hoped that the many recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, which are very detailed and clearly documented in the report, will actually also be implemented in the interests of all parties involved, and especially in the interests of patients and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31077	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31098	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the report and the extensive criticism of the Court of Auditors at the Urban Development Fund and other public funds. The Vienna Urban Development Fund was founded more than 150 years ago for the financing of Monumental Buildings on Ringstraße. Mr Moser has already brought us closer to the imperial intention. This fund has been in existence for a long time, although the original task has long been fulfilled. The Court of Auditors therefore recommended that the Fund be dissolved as early as 1961 and 2013. However, it took until 2017 until the fund was really dissolved, and some of the proceedings determine the judicial system. The fund's real estate deals were specifically examined. The Urban Development Fund has sold its last three properties between 2005 and 2008. He sold the property on the hay market – as the colleague has already mentioned – for € 4.2 million instead of € 9 million. It's not clear why this happened. It is noteworthy that 1 million of them were donated to the Integration Fund. This is precisely the property of the hay market, which a clever investor can profitably slaughter, with the consequence that Vienna will lose its world heritage status. Apparently, those with legal responsibility do not find themselves to this day. The taxpayer has both the financial and the Idea loss and, last but not least, the loss of prestige that the recognition of the world heritage status for Vienna brings. It is really striking that the city of Vienna has its hands in play in the face of many abuses in the public sector. It also affects federal funds and foundations. One example is the Jubilee Fund, which has existed for 100 years. In addition to the transparency of the Fund's performance, the Court of Auditors has also noted that the original purpose of the fund, the combination of employment and housing, has long lost its importance and, as a result of the income situation, there are doubts about the mutual benefit of the Fund. For this reason, the resolution of the Fund was recommended by the Court of Auditors. However, since he still exists and the Austrian taxpayer has the right to know what happens to state resources, I have put a parliamentary question concerning the Jubilee Fund, to which I have received the answer this morning. The answer to the question is that the Court of Auditors' recommendations will not be on the agenda until the next meeting of the General Curia and will then be discussed – perhaps even the possible resolution of the Fund. This is a really irresponsible delay of time, but obviously all of this has no hurry. In any case, I will stick to the subject and put further questions to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31144	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hanger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31165	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my speech, I deal with the Court of Auditors’ report on “Selected areas for health insurance”, review period November 2014 to April 2015. The Vienna regional health fund, the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse ( Steiermärkischeskrankenkasse), the insurance institution of public servants and the main association were examined. The purpose of the examination was to review control measures in the areas of medical assistance, cures, sickness benefits and administrative and settlement expenses. This report has many aspects, sometimes very theoretical in nature, when it comes to achieving objectives. I would like to deal with a subject that is like a red thread through the report, because we have very different systems in the areas of medical assistance, cures, sickness benefits, administrative and settlement expenses, collective bargaining, expenditure per subject area in each health insurance institution. This may be an internal problem if these areas are organised in an efficient manner, perhaps not the major problem, from the point of view of the policyholder, this is very likely to be a problem. I am personally convinced federalist. I am very much in favour of political decisions being taken in the regions because they are better identified because they are closer to the citizens. But I am also very much in favour of the fact that federalism in social security law simply has its limits. It is not clear to a resident of the federal state of A, why, for example, cures are replaced with him and not in another federal country. That is to say, the Court of Auditors' report, which I have referred to, is also an appeal for performance harmonisation in Austria, and this appeal can only be followed in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31204	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31226	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to briefly refer to the Court of Auditors' report on "Commonness in Tax Law". The examination period has been down for some time, it was in 2014 and has, among other things, pursued the following objectives: Collection of non-profit institutions taxed, assessment of the fulfilment of the objectives of the tax beneficiaries, collection of organisational units dealing with the subject, collection and assessment of interfaces between the BMF, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of the Interior concerning association registers and also of interfaces between the BMF and the state governments. There was criticism, among other things, of the clarity of the legal bases, the lack of exchange of experience and knowledge between financial administration and national administrations, and the non-existent uniform procedure for resumption of associations. However, it can be said that these criticism points have been largely processed and implemented to date, for example, direct cooperation with the authorities of the state governments has been forced or with the new basic electronic data management for the first time established a uniform approach to the registration of the association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31253	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31274	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 38 to 40, Court of Auditors reports – TOP 38: There is rightly criticism of the lack of financial planning by the Court of Auditors. The health insurance funds were checked, and the forecasts and provisional accounts of the Steiermärkische and the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and the Versicherungsanstalt were specifically examined. The Court of Auditors also discussed the suitability of the objectives of the cash recovery package from 2009 to 2013 and the expenditure for the Health Fund from 2012 to 2016. At the same time, the Court of Auditors carried out an audit on selected areas of health insurance, as far as I am aware. The criticism of the Court of Auditors was extensive in this matter, and, ladies and gentlemen, a particularly bad witness was given to the Vienna County Hospital. It urgently had to develop a sustainable approach to rehabilitation. My question, Madam President-in-Office of the Council: Is there such a rehabilitation concept already? And above all: What does it look like? So that the cash register will write healthy numbers again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31296	President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Kraker has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31317	Madam President. High house! Mr Mayer spoke about the fact that we have been working together for a year now. I would also like to thank you say that there has been such good cooperation in the Court of Auditors this year. We have had ten dates of the Committee on Budgets, and I have also attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgets. A total of 36 reports were dealt with in the Court of Auditors, Mrs Moser, plus income report and activity report. We also presented the 2016 federal accounts yesterday. Today, only 19 reports are on the agenda, and it is not possible for me to address all these reports in detail. What I would like to say for the future: It would be very important for us in the Court of Auditors to be able to talk more about our recommendations. This would be very important, I believe, because, as we have discussed, it is important for the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors to be supported here and that the recommendations are actually implemented. I am now referring only to two reports from the Court of Auditors which we discussed last week, namely the instruments for the financial management of health insurance and selected areas of control in the health insurance sector. There are two reports that belong together thematically. The main criticisms have already been mentioned. The Federal Government has supported statutory health insurance between 2009 and 2014 with around €1.3 billion, although at the same time – I say so – the clean funds of the health insurance sector have increased significantly. Already in 2013, the overall health insurance sector would have had sufficient own resources without federal funds. However, the situation was very different, individual health insurance companies had a very high purity, for example the BVA, but there were also carriers who continued to have a negative EGT, such as the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. So €1.3 billion has been shot, and yet no general renovation has succeeded. In this we see a significant control problem. What are the causes of the problems in the area of control? – There are methodological shortcomings in the performance plan, the question of a risk and structural balance between the institutions and the will to set ambitious targets. The issue is the collection and use of data and the operational management of medical assistance and remedies through job planning, contract design and consistent use of the cure economy. I am already on the second of the reports, the one on the selected areas of control. I would like to point out that the volume in the field of medical assistance was €3.8 billion and in the field of cures €3 billion. As a result, the Court of Auditors did not consider the operation to be sufficient to ensure sustainable financing. What did the exam show? – The impact of efficiency-enhancing innovations, for example in the laboratory sector, was limited due to the contract structures for health insurance providers. There was no measurement of the quality of the results, and there was no concept of controlling the patient flows. There were significant, well-financial differences between health insurance institutions as regards the density of the specialist, the degression schemes or in the case of cost participations. The Court of Auditors has also seen that all possibilities for improving efficiency in the medicinal products sector would have been exhausted and that in the case of cash-rehabilitation. KET 2009 measures were largely not implemented because there was additional funding. In principle, there is therefore a need for significant improvements in the area of statutory health insurance companies in the light of financial and operational management. Health insurance companies also have cross-border management of administrative costs, because in absolute terms they account for €1.6 billion in 2013. This area also has a significant role to play in public perception. As far as the pension sector is concerned, we have calculated that an additional savings potential of around € 786 million would have existed for the years 2015 to 2016 when implementing the Court of Auditors' recommendations. However, this concerns only staff who entered service before 1996, for the others there was a reformed pension. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31386	Thank you, Madam President. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs or the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 38: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of the III-247 report of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to the notice, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 39: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-229 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 40: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-213 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:50:10]] 41. Point First reading: Request by Mr Michael Bernhard, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (2249/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31470	We shall now proceed to item 41 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. Mr Bernhard, you are the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31497	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! [[In the direction of the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker:]] Goodbye, Madam President! What is it about in my request? - We have the first reading today. In the Committee on Petitions over the last three and a half years, we have worked very intensively on the issue of how we can bring the Committee up to date. I want to say that at the beginning a little more conflict-rich than now at the end. At any rate, I was able to convince my colleagues from the Greens, the ÖVP, SPÖ and also the FPÖ and the Stronach team that we are networking with petition committees in other countries. In particular, I have done or did so with the German Bundestag, the German Landtags, the Austrian Landtags by the way, with Luxembourg, Switzerland, Belgium and some more. Over the last three and a half years, we have considered how the issue of petition works, how the possibility for citizens in other European states to get involved in parliamentary events. We have gained many good ideas, and it will not surprise many in space now that this has remained at the stage of the discussion. So we couldn't convince SPÖ and ÖVP that we really are going to a joint decision. The liberals have said that they will still think about it in peace. What is the content of this proposal, and what would be the great advantage for the future? – Again: The idea is to bring people into Parliament, establish a dialogue, and thus bring Parliament closer to people – no more and no less! The first idea for 2017 is quite banal, namely to set up an internet platform on which it is possible to collect support signatures for parliamentary citizens' initiatives in the future not only on the street or at least physically on a list, but also that people can actually support a concern in a digital way in order to be discussed in Parliament. A second point, which is very important: The Committee on Petitions is the only committee in Austria where the ministries are not obliged to respond. Each other committee usually has an opinion similar to that of a Member who makes a parliamentary request, eight weeks' time limit for reply. At the Committee on Petitions, it is a grace of the Ministry; it is not securitised that we have to get an answer. Another important aspect that already works in many countries is that there are clear rules of play. From a certain number of signatures, the initiator or initiator shall have the right to have a discussion in Parliament, in front of the MEPs in the Committee on Petitions. There are countries like Luxembourg, which continue to: From a certain number of signatures there is a live broadcast of television. We just want people to talk to Members. That too, I think, is a matter of course. The necessary number we have proposed, Mr Pirklhuber and I, would be 5 000 signatures. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I come to the closing point, Madam President: We have many other good ideas that Mr Pirklhuber will address. First of all, however, it is important to me that we send a signal during this period, and that is why we will work together to gain the agreement of the other political groups on this project during this period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31556	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31578	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated preliminary speakers! Once in principle, the following note: It is a legitimate concern, that is no question at all. I am directly glad that the Committee on Petitions has made these points. That makes my position known. But there seems to be something like selective perception in our home. We would have been much further from the Committee on Inquiry than what is now being called for. We know who blocked this, don't we? – Save me to say it was the Greens, otherwise we would have more modern and better solutions than those now required! A Rules of Procedure must always be adapted and will. I have been in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for a very long time, and we are always negotiating the entire period. Rules of Procedure are always laborious, but in one we should already have a consensus: that in today's time we bring our activities as close as possible to the citizens. There should be nothing against it, let us say it once more, if we have more public, more modern means of transmission, all the things that bring Parliament's life closer to our citizens. The story is always easy to talk about; if you negotiate it, it always becomes laborious. But I still believe that this is a way to go. I do not trust to tell myself how fast this is and how it is going in an exodus period. In principle, then, this is an area worthy of support, and I hope that in future those responsible will agree in these areas rather than perhaps in the past, because I believe that this is in the interest of the House, in the interest of the Members and ultimately also in the interest of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31611	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31632	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, this proposal is something that is open to all political groups. Being at the height of time in terms of technical resources is a very essential thing. However, we must ensure that we do not develop a digital divide, and therefore we must also ensure that all Austrian citizens are technically able to vote in the form of a petition, a citizens' initiative and so on on an internet platform. That is what it is to be examined. We will then discuss this in the following committees in the coming months. It is essential to bring about this participation and participation. What I would like to remember: The commitment of the ministries to answer is a passus that is essential. We must already point out, however, that the Ministries have already given a very comprehensive response. So it's not that this wouldn't happen. I'd like to hold on to that. The second is that we are already dealing with the way in which we conduct politics in Austria – with a people's representation, such as here in the National Council – in the end, quite, very intensively with cooperation, communication with the citizen. We should keep that up. We must not always pretend that this is an abandoned caste, which is away from all possible interests of citizens. working and acting, but we must make it clear that we are here very closely interconnected with the various representatives of citizens' interests. It is quite, very important that we do not oppose each other, but ultimately develop it together. In this context, I would also like to ask that many of the initiatives and the importance of democracy policy, which we have to fulfil, in which the individual political groups are under obligation, be fulfilled as well. For example, in the forthcoming elections or in all elections, whether this is at municipal, national or federal level, when it comes to, for example, ordering voters in election commissions, it is also important to ensure that every political group nominated for voluntary, voluntary personalities, that is an essential task of our representation here in Parliament, too. Finally, there is the participation of citizens. If individual political groups are strongly supported, they must not always be reduced to those who are represented here. - No! Behind all the Members of this House is really a large number of citizens who are interested in representing their interests, whether regionally, from the point of view of interest. That we fulfil this task as best as possible is absolutely essential – and also that we combine it with citizens' initiatives, with petitions. This must be a channel that is open to everyone in the same way and to whom everyone has access. I'm looking forward to the discussions. I believe that we must continue to develop this in the Rules of Procedure in the sense of technical development.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31678	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31699	Madam President. High house! In principle, I would like to thank Mr Bernhard for his initiative. The basic intention of the request is simply to bring the Committee on Petitions closer to the citizens. We can support many points contained in the request. We talked about this in advance. The reason why we were not finally on it were two smaller points that I will then address, especially this approach to e-voting, where we are very skeptical and where we might have to make fine adjustments. I would like to refer to point 5. The intention of this threshold of 5,000 signatures, from which there will then be a hearing, is that we do not happen to what has accompanied us in the Committee on Petitions over the last four years. I have to say quite honestly, it was nice what the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues have just said, but precisely their behaviour in the Committee on Petitions is the reason why we need to discuss such things because it is x times that petitions and citizens' initiatives are buried first-class and not taken seriously. So I understand the intention of this threshold. This is a point we have discussed and where we say: We may have to reschedule a little bit, and the threshold of 5,000 signatures seems to us to be too low. For example, if you have a larger community, perhaps a city, these signatures are collected very quickly, and then it can certainly happen to us that we are here in the Parla- I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. We might have to turn a little bit on the screw, but you can at least discuss that. The second point on item 5, which we have still discussed within the Group, is that this consultation must, as it were, take place. I think you should just stand in here. The right to a hearing arises. That means that it does not result in any obligation. This too can easily be adjusted. What, though, is at the heart of the matter? Of course, one can change the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Petitions, and that is certainly a correct step in the right direction in a large part. But what is the end of the matter? . On what is made out of this Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, we must, and above all, be clear to the government parties, starting from this unsituation of notices and reluctances. Only if we do so and show the citizens that we take the concerns that are raised to us seriously will we also comply with the right to the Committee on Petitions. I come to the conclusion: Unfortunately, since I do not think that we will be discussing the Committee on Petitions again in the summer in a special session – Mr Bernhard says, perhaps – I would like to thank you very much for the work in the Committee on Petitions in the last four years, also for the impulses that have been set for the further development of the Committee, and to wish you a nice summer in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31747	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31769	Madam President. At the end of a long plenary session, perhaps another minute of political reflection. It is simply a desire to develop a concern for the population and, in fact, for all parties, as far as I remember, to improve direct democracy in Austria. Mr Pendl has said that after the Committee on Inquiry on Direct Democracy, we have almost reached a conclusion. Mr Pendl, that's it! Now I'm saying, That was 2015. We've got 2017 now. In the sense of efficiency, Mr Bernhard and I have considered that we are at least bringing forward an initiative proposal for the first stage of direct democracy, namely the citizens' initiative and petitions. It is more difficult for us to go on to the popular and national level immediately, because it affects and needs to be discussed a lot of fundamental rights issues and we no longer have the time to do so. Mr Pendl! You have said it correctly, it is not against anything at all – including Mr. Schmuckenschlager, who has supported it – that on-line input from citizens' initiatives is made possible. I would also like to thank Mr Lipitsch and Mr Gahr, who have been actively and closely involved in the Committee. It is true that this proposal is in line with Parliament's direction. What we have proposed here can be implemented immediately and costs almost no more cents. Almost, I say, because the review of the online inputs, whether they are in the electoral register – that is, a very simple procedure – must, of course, be carried out by the Parliamentary Directorate. And we also want the petitioners to get a letter in the future. If you bring in a petition, a citizens' initiative, at least you have, I also think the right to get a proper answer, how the procedure was, how it was done and what the results were. That's the core of concern. On the comments of Mr Hafenecker: Of course you can make some improvement. Whether you take 3 000 or 5 000 support signatures as thresholds, so that a first signatory is required to be invited, you can discuss that. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl! Col. Jewellery hits! If we are so unanimous in our view that there are no reasons at this level to avoid making nails with heads so to speak, I would suggest – and I will be happy to bring in tomorrow – a deadline proposal until 19. ==References== We can also make a small committee before the next plenary session in September or before one of the next plenary sessions in September, and at least this is a small change, which is an improvement that can be implemented, which is civil-friendly, also once, together, not against each other, but actually all the parties in this House together. That would be a signal to the population that, despite election struggles, we want to think of them and strengthen their interests in this House in the sense of democratic development. That is why I am asking You really want to support this proposal for a deadline tomorrow and to take this path together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31814	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 2249/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:07:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00188_d8e31847	I announce that self-employed applications 2262/A(E) to 2268/A(E) have been submitted at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23.07 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
