ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9956	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I apologize for the slight delay and open the 179. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 175 and 176. Meeting of 26. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: On 4 April 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Stefan and Dr. Hable. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there has just been a communication on the intention of the Federal Chancellor to make a statement to the National Council. This will be done as TOP 1 of today's agenda, in accordance with the agreement I have just reached in advance with the members of the presidential conference. We will announce the details before entering the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:09:59]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10001	In this way we arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Protective zones, border control, integration: Electoral campaign or implementation?’ Mr Klubobmann Lugar is the first to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10028	Madam President. High house! Dear Mr. Non-Vizekanzler! [[Call the ÖVP: Who do you think?]] Today it's about what we've had to experience in the last few weeks, months and years. The situation we have experienced and experienced is a refugee crisis that costs us an incredible amount of money. We only recently discussed in the Committee on Budgets a report by Mr Felder, head of the Fiscal Council, which has calculated that every refugee will cost us €277,000 per capita by 2060 – only that we get a sense of how long the money will cost us! When I was the Minister of Finance – from your party! – he said, yes, that’s a lot of money, and we most likely have to set ourselves up to about 30,000 refugees a year, for an unlimited period of time. That is to say, the ÖVP wants to bring 30 000 into the country every year, without jobs, without housing and without integration. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] We are already here with you, Mr Integration Minister, because you have done something that is really very interesting: You are Foreign Ministers and Integration Ministers in this government – we are still talking about your achievements in this government – and you have torpeded and ultimately destroyed your own government from the cover, and now you stand here and say, so it cannot continue with this government. - I'll give you that. But the question is, what do you mean? How can't it go on? Can't it be that the ÖVP doesn't make the chancellor? That is precisely the background to this whole action. You are not – and I am going to work out – about concrete content, it is not about concrete laws, nor about work for Austria, nor is it about you that you want to recover the chancellor post for the ÖVP. The question, of course, arises: Then what does that bring? What does it do if you now blow this government with all possible angled trains? There is, of course, also the angular movement that you don't want to become vice-cancers, a very important one so that people don't see that it's really a chimary that you're building here, that you really don't want to work, but just want to become chancellors. Then we have the problem: What about the election? Let us assume that the ÖVP will become the strongest party. What happens after the election? Is there another coalition with the SPÖ, only with the difference that you are then chancellors and possibly Doskozil vice chancellors? Then the question arises, what will be better in this country, where you claim, so it cannot continue because you cannot work with this SPÖ. That was your theory. The theory was, you can't work with the SPÖ, and you have to jump this government to create new conditions. - Well, then we'll make the nail sample: We can see here and today whether what you say is true. Do you know how we do this? That's easy. You claim you can't use the SPÖ, you have good ideas, but the SPÖ has blocked them. If only you could, as you wanted, everything would be better. – You have claimed that is your claim, and now we will prove here and today whether that is true. Do you know how this goes? – There is a majority in Parliament with which you can immediately implement everything on the subject of refugees and migration. There is a majority of ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach, and we are not far from each other in content. So we could do something in this House right away, but you do not want to do that, just as you have done nothing as a minister – except talk a lot, that is true. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] If you tell us – I'll hear it again! – he closed the Balkan route, the Foreign Minister: Do you know who closed the Balkan Route? – That was the neighbouring states! [[Abg. Street: The Orbán was it!]] And do you know why they did that? – Because the Germans have said they don't pick up everyone who comes. That's why you couldn't just get through, just like Austria and many other countries did, and that's why this route was at least included; it wasn't closed anyway. What you have done – you have to acknowledge –: They were one of the few who stood on the right side from the very beginning, namely, criticised us for letting everything in here. But you have done nothing but find beautiful words. The same is true of integration: What have you done in the years? Where are the concrete measures you have put into integration? - Nothing happened! Let us also look at your adlatus, who, together with you, has ruptured this government: Mr Sobotka. What did Mr Sobotka do? Do you remember anything useful? Has he brought the more than 90 000 illegals out of the country who live here in Austria as submarines, of which one knows they are illegal here? - No, he didn't! Or have you perhaps concluded any bilateral agreements that we can bring back refugees, migrants who have not lost anything here? - You didn't! What have you done in concrete terms, except for this fairy tale of the Balkan route closure? What exactly did you do? That is why, Mr I-will-non-Vizekanzler-become, this is quite interesting [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ]] Now explain where the meaning is! You now have all the drums in your hand. You have castrated the ÖVP, I don't say, but at least a little bit to the kandare. You have the opportunity to dictate everything. You have the opportunity to implement everything here in Parliament with changing majority. They are always telling us that you want to do this, namely finally to cope with the refugee crisis. You can do anything! And what are you doing? – You withdraw, you don’t want to become Vice Chancellor because you don’t want to be responsible. [[Abg. Kickl: A phantom!]] That's exactly the problem: The problem with you is that you don't even know what you want to do. What you knew so far is that you want to become chancellors – you knew that, and you still know that – but you don't know what you want to implement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Nothing at all!]] - That's right! “Oh, nothing!” the Greens say, and they’re right. That's the problem. Now you want the Austrians to buy the cat in the bag, and that's why you move back to your snail house and don't want to do anything, you don't want to do anything in Parliament, you don't want to make any laws, because we'd rather wait a whole year, let the refugees come in, pay another € 2 billion in extra costs, which are still on the rise, the budget will also wake up, but that doesn't matter to you. You sit in your snail house, look out: Are all still excited about me? Am I still going to be a good choice? – And then, after the election, the citizens come to it: Well, that's really just about the chancellor post and nothing else. This is the problem, Mr Vice-Chancellor or Mr But-non-Vicekanzler, or I do not know. Maybe you'll still think about it. Maybe you'll take the issue in your hands. Don't you think that's what you're expecting if you're already acting so powerfully within the ÖVP and force the Grands into your knees? By the way, I also look at how this will work, but if that's true, then it's good, then use this power you have, and put something into practice! Step into this government, stop shooting out of the cover, and stop doing any election campaign events instead of visiting the Council of Ministers. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] We have experienced that, I think, 17 or 18 times that you simply boycott and blackmail the government work. Do you think the Austrians expect this from you? We want concrete implementations, which is why: Prove us that you can bring this to Parliament today or tomorrow, and you will find a majority, I guarantee you! And then the Austrians see: Hoppala, there's someone who really wants to move something for this country! But I already know that you will not do that – I will nevertheless remind you at every meeting to do so – because you do not want to, because the Austrians will see in the second in which you have to do concrete political work: Hoppala, the ÖVP wants these refugees to come! Schelling says it in the committee: 30 000 each year, the EIA wants this because it believes that it can do something good for the labour market or in another area. The ÖVP wants to do this – and therefore you will not do anything about it – and also all the other items on the agenda. Actually, you don't want to rule. What you want is to be the Radiant outside; I have to say that has also worked well – hat off! They've been the beam man so far, but now we want to see actions. What is the difference between opposition and government? – I don’t know if you know that, but the difference is: The opposition has different ideas and may not be able to implement them until decades; You as a government may have other ideas, but They have to put it on the table, because it is expected by a government: that it puts concrete things on the table! Then you can evaluate this, then people can make a picture of you, and then it will turn out to be a blender or are you really a suitable chancellor for Austria? [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] That is what we want to know, and we will remind you of that at every meeting that will come.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10146	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10174	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But, of course, above all: Dear Mr. Klubobmann Lugar! Perhaps, as you have done, before I come to the issue of migration and integration, I should like to deal with the most up-to-date issue, namely: How is it going in the Republic and also in the Government?, and perhaps give a reason why I have made the decisions I have made as I have done.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10240	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10255	I won't exceed 10 minutes – I promise! – but maybe you'll give me a few minutes to answer. After the resignation of Reinhold Mitterlehner, I felt that it would be useful for two reasons to allow us to hold popular national elections in Austria: On the one hand, I have personally experienced that in the last months the permanent election campaign has constantly increased, and I do not think it makes sense for our country if it continues for a year and a half. On the other hand, I believe that in a democracy, the population should also have the opportunity to decide who is the political leader in the government of this country. The last to be elected in Austria were Deputy Chancellor Michael Spindelegger and Chancellor Werner Faymann. [[Abg. Lugar: You were also chosen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Krainer: All who sit here were elected!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Call the Stronach team.]] Since then, there have been many party decisions, but no electoral decisions. Therefore, my proposal is that there should be preferential elections. I am glad that the opposition parties agreed relatively quickly on an appointment proposal, i.e. 8th and 15th respectively. October. I immediately supported this proposal. I believe that, if there is still the SPÖ's agreement on this, we will be on the 8th. ==References== ==References====External links== I also think it makes sense for us to make this decision quickly so that everyone involved and, above all, the people know when the elections will take place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Then we choose stop!]] The second point, of course, concerns the question: How's the election campaign going? – In my opinion, this should be short, intense, but fair, and I can now make the offer to all that we all do so together. The third point, and this is probably the most important question in the next few months, is: How do we deal with this in the government until then? – The offer from my side is quite clear: I'm for orderly conditions. [[Abg. Lugar: Become Vice Chancellor!]] I feel attached to the government programme, but also to the Government Convention. This means that I do not want to exceed the SPÖ in the National Council and break the Coalition Agreement, but rather try to do everything possible to achieve proper work by then, and actually implement the points already agreed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: I believed...!]] I had a conversation with the Chancellor yesterday, and in this conversation we actually came very quickly to the point where we found ourselves in the ten points he proposed, and also in some points that I have put on the table. From my point of view, it should be possible to work together within the next few weeks many of these points in peace. [[Abg. Lugar: Now it goes at once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] If there is also an agreement of the opposition, then I personally am very pleased. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am interested in the fact that the dispute that has taken place in the government will not continue, and therefore I have deliberately made a very constructive personal proposal. I have proposed Wolfgang Brandstetter as Vice Chancellor, who, in my view, has always noticed as a tradesman, who has never been involved in a dispute in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] His first reaction was that he said he wanted to do that, but he would only want to do so if there is above all the willingness to do something more. On the one hand, there is this willingness – we will prove it in the next few days and weeks – and I hope the SPÖ accepts this offer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And why not yourself?]] I believe that it is useful to rely on continuity in the remaining functions in the last few months before the election. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I therefore proposed that Harald Mahrer take over the role of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Science. [[Abg. Street: ÖVP Alt!]] We would like to save the State Secretariat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Strache New!]] My last point concerns the answers to the questions that should actually be raised at this current hour, namely the questions of migration and also integration. Mr Klubobmann Lugar, you said before – if I have correctly noted this – that: You admit to me that I have stood on the right side of the refugee question from the very beginning. [[Abg. Lugar: You don't have anything! Bla, blah!]] I see this as well as you; and I can only tell you that it was a really challenging struggle in the first months, almost years in the refugee question, because there were very many who saw it differently. There have been many who have taken a firm stand for the policy of open borders, which has been used for the unlimited inclusion in Central Europe and, above all, in Austria. [[Interlocutors Belakovich-Jenewein and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] There were many who thought it was right that everyone who comes to us should stay with us. I have represented a different attitude from the beginning, have always expressed myself clearly against the further swing, and I am still grateful to our partners at the Western Balkans for being able to conclude this Western Balkans route together and to end the further swing. Now there are some who rightly say: But there are still people who are going through illegally! - That's right. That will always be the case. That's why you have to fight tugs, do everything you can, that it's as few as possible that get through illegally. But the following must be clear: It is a big difference whether this is a few thousand within a few months or the 15 000 people a day, ladies and gentlemen! That's a big difference for our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Then change something!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I am therefore glad to be able to tell you that over the past few months, as many as in 2015 have come in one day. It is still too many for me, but it is a quality difference for our country, whether 15 000 people make their way every day to move over the Western Balkans route to us, or whether it is a few thousand within a few months. [[Abg. Lugar: Now they come across the Mediterranean!]] What is now necessary is to implement the same policy on the Mediterranean route. This means that the rescue in the Mediterranean must not be linked to the ticket to Central Europe. I have been strongly criticized for this attitude, but I remain in it. [[Abg. Korun: Right!]] As long as we bring people to the mainland after salvation and let them continue to travel to Central Europe, more and more people get on the way, more and more people come to us and – even worse – more and more people drown. The wrong policy on this route has not led to fewer people dying, but it has led to the opposite: In 2015, 3 000 people died, more than 5 000 in 2016, and for this year the forecasts are even higher. I reject this policy, and I will do my best to end this policy. Mr Klubobmann Lugar, I guarantee you that Europe will follow us on this issue and end this policy because it is wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Then you will become active!]] Finally, I would like to address the question of integration: Integration is and remains a difficult challenge. If within a few years 150,000 people from very different cultures, many of whom are very poorly trained, are admitted to Austria, then this is a huge challenge. [[Abg. Korun: Have you ever...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] This is no surprise either, and I would sometimes like those who have always stood for the unlimited reception in Austria to say clearly that this is now the consequence. I personally wonder that it has always been said that it is not a problem to take up these people – and now the surprise is great that there are challenges to integration. We're doing our best. [[Abg. Korun: You should do something!]] I am glad that today the Integration Act can hopefully be adopted with your consent in Parliament. From my point of view, the most important points are the increase in numbers in German courses and value training – that is very important for integration – and, secondly, we make it possible, in particular, by means of the Integration Year Act, for people who do not have jobs to do non-profit work. In my opinion, this too is an important step: that people who are unemployed do not simply hang around in the park or at home and live on taxpayers' money, but make a contribution. The third point – he too is fiercely controversial, but I hope that he will get your agreement – is a ban on symbols of the counter-company. The full veiling, but for example also the Qur'an distribution actions by Salafists are to be prohibited. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is not forbidden! That's not true!]] I think it makes sense for us here to put a clear sign of what is in place in our country and what has no place. You can already prove whether you're carrying our law or not. I would like to thank you many times for the opportunity to express my views here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10610	That is what we are going to enter into the debate. I would draw your attention to the fact that there is a speaking time of 5 minutes for the following speakers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10674	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Minister! [[Abg. Lopatka: There are two!]] – That’s why I said “Lords”. In particular, I would like to warmly welcome colleagues, because in many European debates in the House, we have missed him lately, for example, when we discussed the consequences of Brexit here a few weeks ago. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as of Green MEPs.]] It has fallen the term "permanent" campaign; and yes, it is true! It has also become clear why in recent weeks and months there has been such a blockade vote in the government, why individual colleagues from the ÖVP have not reached negotiation dates, even though they have previously sworn that they want to get it done. The blockades have also got names [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Sobotka!]] It is Mr Sobotka, but it is also other people on the banks of Members. Of course, Mr Kurz has also pressed for the government to move a little further. That's why it's right that this acting now has an end. I think a lot of people have said: Before this blockade show continues, new elections are preferable to us, and feel redeemed. As a responsible politician, however, we must not forget the following: It would be even more important for the people in our country to decide what things people have in concrete terms something positive. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This appeal, this confession, of course, is the more credible, the more responsibility you take over, but, as I said, you can't force a partner to do what you want, but only hope for the insight into the need. [[Abg. Wheeler: Integration!]] We urgently need solutions on the subject that we are now discussing, namely that we need a Europe that we get and that finds the answers to the question of the migration crisis. However, I would also like to make another European policy aspect clear: Today, the coalition partner has said that he no longer wants to continue the reform. If this is not implemented, we are threatened by an EU stratification procedure, which costs €160 000 per day. This is not in the sense of the taxpayer – nor, by the way, in the sense of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would rather be important to finally decide on the employment action for 20 000 long-term unemployed, because these are people who are excluded from society, who have little hope and whom we wanted to give hope with this programme. The signal that is now being sent is: We don't want to work on solving your problem! – I am sorry that these people have not deserved it, nor is Austria worthy of dealing with these people in this way. It is also about expanding primary care to cover health centres. It is about education reform, the implementation of school autonomy. Only today have I read in the newspaper that the ÖVP teacher union has already let the sect corks blow, because it is now finally able to block the educational reform again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Is this the new ÖVP? – That sounds a little bit like it has always been in the last decades. The payment of compensation for individual entrepreneurs, so that they finally receive a right to sick leave, the women's rate in supervisory councils of large companies that we have agreed to, the second mandatory kindergarten year, which is waiting for implementation, the prevention of tax evasion and profit-shift – in respect of letterbox companies, Panama Leaks and as the topics are all called – or the urgently necessary increase of study grants, all these are topics that are now not only shot and missed in the Orcus, but also bear the signature of all ministers, i.e. also those of Minister Kurz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] [[Abg. Wheelers: Integration is not a topic?- Oh, my God!]] Therefore, my appeal at the end – I am not a negative and not a black-seer – is: Let us really make a serious effort to ensure that in the next few months we continue to implement the things that we have already negotiated together and that you all signed! Then we will see what your signature is worth at the end of the day here in the High House. We would like these reforms to be implemented for Austria, because we are very concerned about the people of the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10792	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10813	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all Members of this House are very concerned about people in the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't agree, Mr. Arbitrator. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I am very grateful to the Stronach team and to Klubobmann Lugar for this theme of the current hour. He asked a specific question here: ‘Walking or implementation?’ – I would like to give a concrete answer: We want to implement a short election campaign in autumn and much until then. There is no contradiction between me and my colleague Schieder – absolutely not! – and I tell you because the opposition parties may not be so well informed. There are ten points on the part of the Federal Chancellor and seven points on our part that we want to negotiate with the SPÖ in concrete terms. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lugar, Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] – If you are interested, I will briefly tell you the points, but I believe that the Greens should also be interested in research, Mr Pirklhuber. The first point is the state reform and a harmonisation in economic law. The second point concerns employment action 20 000. The third point is the increase in the research premium – this is very important for our economic location. The fourth point concerns the expansion of primary supply – we are already very far from the negotiations. The fifth point concerns the reform of education; just before, I was asked by Mr Brosz whether we would like to continue to negotiate seriously. I am speaking publicly of what I have said before, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Lugar: We are talking about implementation!]] –College Lugar, yes, we want to do this! – Mr Lugar, we want to implement this, but we are used to negotiating before implementation – first negotiating, then deciding. [[Abg. Lugar: When? Date!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Mr Mahrer has already been for this!]] The next point is the women's ratio in supervisory councils – it has already been addressed. Point eight is childcare. Point 9 concerns the prevention of profit-shifting and point 10 of the study aid reform. Mr Schieder, you were there, and we have discussed this in detail several times in the context of coordination. Yes, there are still differences of opinion, but with good will we can do so. Our seven points: First: Security – this is the subject today. The security police law is very important to us. Secondly, the cold progression – a big point in which Minister of Finance Schelling has very concrete ideas. Another point that is important to us is family allowances abroad – there has not been an agreement with social democracy so far. [[Abg. Krainer: There is the signature of Schelling!]] You know our clear position on this. Fourth point: mobility in the labour market – we need flexibility here. Fifth point: the abolition of the cumulation principle – for many traders, it is a very important point for us to come up with rules that are practical. Sixth point: The Foreign Rights Change Act – the second part. 7th point: funding for study places. So we need to discuss a wide field. Our new managing party officer has commissioned Finance Minister Schelling and Harald Mahrer, who knows all points because he was the government coordinator, to negotiate these points. The second point is therefore: We want to do as much as we can, Mr Lugar, not only negotiate but also implement it. [[Abg. Lugar: Say an appointment! Where's the date? No appointment except for the election!]] Mr Lugar, how do you know what dates there are within the government? You're not in government yet, Mr. Lugar! [[Abg. Donate: The emphasis is on “yet”!]] So: This is the government's business now. And a third important point – because Mr Pilz has just entered the plenary room – is the investigative committee. It is also ensured that the Committee of Inquiry can work very intensively in May and June. It is very important to us that this work is not hindered, and it was therefore also the wish of the Green Group – you ask the question: [[Abg. Lugar: (in the direction of the seat of Abg. Schellhorn wise) Ask the Minister for Economic Affairs, perhaps he knows an appointment!]] Electoral campaign? . to take the decision on new elections only at the end of June. So there is more agreement than some believe. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] Now it is about working intensively, and the election campaign in autumn: from our side as short and fair as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10967	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10989	Madam President. Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! How's it going? – I would like to go into it very briefly. There was a lot of the right thing to talk about today, but if the ÖVP now thinks it's not going anymore, I have to say: We have found exactly the same situation in recent years. What was different in recent years than now? – Permanent dispute! Permanent standstill! Permanent chaos! You would have had a constant right to say: That's not how it goes! But you have always been there, and in recent years and months, you have ultimately lost the electorate, because the citizens have seen that you cannot rely on this ÖVP at all. On the contrary, they are everywhere, if it is to the detriment of this country, and therefore bear responsibility for chaos, dispute and downtime. It is both government parties, SPÖ and ÖVP, who bear this responsibility! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I've got to hold on. I am glad that I invited the opposition parties to a summit yesterday – with Peter Pilz I also had wonderful coffee talks – and all the opposition observers also responded to this invitation because it showed: [[Abg. Lopatka: The obsess is glamorous!]] If this government cannot work, then the opposition is ready to assume political responsibility. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach, as well as the MP Pilz and Scherak.]] It has also managed to ensure, in common responsibility, a roadmap for rapid, orderly new elections in October. In the discussions, we also ensured that the Committee of Inquiry can work and that we do not make the mistake of paralysing all the work in this House because of your dispute. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] No, we are working, we are going to ensure that the Committee of Inquiry is included in it in July, while at the same time re-elections are being made. That was our proposal, and after the government's dispute, SPÖ and ÖVP had to accept the opposition's proposal, and there was no other possibility at all. This shows, however, who lives here state-political responsibility and that nothing goes with red and black. I say that SPÖ and ÖVP have massively damaged our country in many areas, and of course today also must: That's where you, Mr Kurz, have been everywhere in the last six years. At that time, you were first State Secretary and then Minister, because you have been responsible for all things as Minister of Integration, and you have to account for dramatic misdevelopments at that time. On a few points in depth: the new ÖVP, I have now heard – that reminds me of the posters of 1995 with Wolfgang Schüssel, also then it was called: the new ÖVP. That's an old hat, just without a mesh! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] You're not going to believe you can bring anyone behind the oven with this label gap, are you? – I know, these are your mentors, these old system representatives from Schüsel to Erwin Pröll, but sympathizers are not, and for renewal they are not at all, you have to hold that even before. [[Call:College Strache, you've been in the system for a long time]] But it is also about the responsibility you have as an integration minister. Let us take a concrete look at the responsibility of where you were everywhere to the detriment of our country: The Islamic law, which you have finally put into us; an Islam law that is for the sausages, which, I say, is even common dangerous, in the truest sense of the word. At the time, you were happy to say, Mr. Kurz, that Islam is part of Austria. – No, Islam is not part of Austria, I tell you here! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] It is your political responsibility, the responsibility of SPÖ and ÖVP, that the number of Muslim citizens here in Austria has increased from 30 000 to more than 700 000 within a few decades, because you have a disastrous immigration policy and have always supported it. They have passed an Islam law, but it has not even been handled as other beliefs in Austria do, namely, that the principles of faith must be presented in German. The Islamic community has two A4 pages – ridiculous two A4 pages! – presented. That's inconceivable! The principles of faith must be presented in German so that we can see whether these teachings, which are being spread there, are also in line with our Austrian constitution. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] And there are concrete doubts about this when it comes to political Islam. External financing for associations: To this day, this is going and going, and parallel and counterparts ultimately have all the possibilities. I understand this because the ÖVP and also you are in fact working closely with ATIB and these club structures. The upper limit of 37 500 on the asylum issue is a disaster – the family merger is not included at all. I remember the situation at the borders in 2015: Mr. Kurz, you forgot that you spoke of more welcome culture at the time, asked for more welcome culture – at that time entirely on Merkel courses. They have said that the average immigrant is more educated than the Austrian. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They have given many, many comments to the best of what can only be wondered about. And you were not at all courageous and loud at the time when I asked to secure and control the Austrian borders after the EU's external borders could not be secured. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time you fell over us, you said: What do the liberals think of trying to secure the Austrian borders?! – Yes, that would have been our responsibility, but SPÖ and ÖVP were not ready to do so, but actually supported the tractor organizations by the uncontrolled opening of the borders, up to Mr. Kern, who at the time, as the head of the ÖBB, almost immediately extended and expanded the tow service – and the chaos was perfect! There are billions of costs that have been caused. There are security deficits, problems that will continue to concern us in the next few years, but you are still not ready to make a real political change, which can be found in the implementation. In many areas of integration, we see complete failure. 73 percent of the Turks in Austria voted yes at the Constitutional referendum in Turkey. We've got thousands of statesmen! What has been done in concrete terms, up to the return measures or withdrawal agreements? That too is your responsibility. – Nothing has happened!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11077	Mr Klubobmann, you must come to the conclusion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11093	I come to the conclusion: They can certainly try to deceive people, but they can't be fooled, they want to implement, they want honesty and credibility – and that's not to be found at the ÖVP, but also at the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11120	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11141	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Sebastian Kurz, you are now managing partyobmann, the coalition has ended, and we are faced with the fact that for months obviously fruitification policy and explosive mastery in a coalition have also been tolerated by your side that has been watched as colleague Lopatka and interior minister Sobotka have really worked successively to sprung the coalition. This has not happened for the first time since 1995, since 1995 it has been the fourth time that the ÖVP has always done according to the same pattern, and then we must listen here in Parliament to the fact that it is said faithfully that this permanent election campaign is no longer to be endured, even though everything has previously been committed to pursuing fruitification policy. The resignation of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner is the best proof of this, it is desperate and ultimately failed to do so. That is unreasonable for the people – unreasonable! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's just absurd, it was 1995 so, it was 2002, it was 2008 and it's now the fourth time in 2017, every second coalition is split in time, and gradually due to fruitification policy. We are at least relieved in one point, namely concerning the Committee of Inquiry. We have been proposing this with all vehemence since Friday – it is unfortunate that the government parties have not been so concerned about saving the investigation committee and thus indeed billions of money for the Republic. This is not only about information and control, but also about not missing certain deadlines and perhaps getting back money for the Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a bad tradition in this House that investigation committees are always turned off in advance. Now we have one that has been used by a minority, and without our massive pressure and our massive convictions, it would not have been possible to create additional meetings now, to make use of every remaining day, and to set a way for the re-election of the new electoral decision, which I hope will now be taken by all. This is a heart concern, it is about the largest lubrication network in the Second Republic, and it has earned a different handling than in these shadow struggles, simply going down in this fruitification policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are we supposed to think is now being conjured by all sides: We want to work together!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Maximum skepticism for these four weeks, I think, is appropriate. When I look at the projects, I have to say that I am really hard on the word state reform alone. How should it be possible to get over a project that has failed between black and red over the years within four weeks? So much humor you have to put on to propose this now as a point. We make other proposals. There are decisive proposals in this House that have enormous impact on the population as well. Let me give you an example, the eco electricity law, which has been negotiated in a fixed and final manner. It is about an investment volume of over one billion euros, it is about companies, it is about plants that could be built. This would, by the way, be the only contribution of Austria under the Paris Convention on Climate Change, in which something happens. This does not mean the destruction of thousands of jobs. I can therefore only ask you to take up these negotiating results and not sacrifice them again to this infinite campaign of election and thus also to write concrete jobs in smoking. We just don't want to. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Sebastian Kurz, if you only think that is somehow serious to want to get out of this fruitification policy, which was certainly blessed by you, then today you have the opportunity to do so. Minister of the Interior Sobotka – I think it was recognizable to everyone with a free eye, every week, every month – has not left out an opportunity to provoke, break out of the fence, interfere in topics that were not really his concern or within the scope of his competence. [[Federal Minister Kurz talks to Abg. Amon]] [[Abg. Honey: Listen, Minister!]] We, too, now you have a way to change that. This afternoon, we will logically make a motion for distrust, because such personalities who are not interested in working and in material solutions, but who simply want to play their political game, who simply want to create a playing field, so to speak, to enforce certain interests of power, have no place in a federal government, even if it is only for a few months, simply!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11217	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11238	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Clubobfrau Glavischnig has spoken of a certain portion of skepticism when it comes to implementing a state reform within four weeks. - That's a little nice. The essential question you have to ask yourself when you listen to this is: Sebastian Kurz explains that it will now be all new with the list Kurz – new ÖVP, however that means, the list Kurz, the fan club of Sebastian Kurz is already enthusiastically applauding itself. You have to ask yourself: Does anyone believe that? Does anyone believe that? Sebastian, you are 30 years old, just as I am, and for 30 years the ÖVP has been in the Federal Government. For 30 years the same game has always been the same – by the way, it is no different at SPÖ in many areas – and that is because both major parties have a single goal: to defend their grains, to defend this corrupt system. And no man believes anything will change! [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Personally, it doesn't matter what ÖVP means in the future, how its system works, who creates the lists within the ÖVP, because the problem will be exactly the same: The same people will be there, the same interests will be in the foreground, namely: I want to defend my own grain, I want to continue to defend the chamber structure in Austria!, and so on and so on. It will not change, and now we're going to get here and say, we're now implementing what we've done together is of course just as credible as you said a few months ago, you're making a new government program, writing a few things together, signing and saying that you're now implementing what you've done together. So if anyone in the population believes seriously, then you can't help this person because what you're doing is not serious. For 30 years exactly the same game from the ÖVP – always new. Clubobfrau Glavischnig has added up the individual points, saying how often the ÖVP has done that. I remember: Wilhelm Molterer: It's enough! - When is it really enough? Is it all the time? And the big question is: What do we do after the next elections? Then ÖVP, so list short, excuse, and SPÖ will put themselves together and say: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, “ÖVP” fits eh!]] Well, maybe we should get back together. And then everyone will sit here again and ask themselves: Yeah, how is that supposed to go together? The big question is how, at all, common policy for people should work here, if in the foreground there is nothing else but fruitification, a certain stage of intrigue, if a foreign minister obviously seeks an economic minister and calls to NEOS – which, of course, honors us, because that means that the ÖVP of economic competence has not had anything for a long time! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Economic competence is with NEOS, so you have to call us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This is embarrassing for Parliament and for the way in which we try to make politics in Austria, and leads people to have zero more interest in it, because they only see this every day: They make something up, they're supposed to sign something, and at the end of the day, nothing will be implemented! Even if now the new list Kurz – ÖVP believes that with this right of entry of the party owner everything will be new: It is only a matter of time until a new clubman Lopatka comes and continues to play these power games and this trickery – or he remains here anyway. It's always the same, and it's been 30 years! On the theme that the Stronach team selected for the current hour, to protect the boundaries: Yes, we NEOS have long made proposals in this regard, we have said that if we want to protect the common European external borders – Mr Worm, you only have to look at the corresponding broadcasts and listen to them in the plenary session – then we need to send active, pro-European 20,000 people to these common external borders. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] I think it is wrong to see the proposal that has been put forward by Foreign Minister in relation to the renationalisation of border controls. It would happen exactly what I predicted from the beginning when we discussed it: There would be 27 Member States – each and every one – making their national slums, 27 border fences would be created, and the European Union would be at the end. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, not in Austria, there are only a few stands!]] That would happen if we renationalized border controls: It would be at risk to the Austrian site and Europe would be at risk in the long term. I do not know how you are, but I have no interest in standing at the border in Kleinhaugsdorf, in Nickelsdorf, in Spielfeld for hours again, and I know that the Austrians also have no interest in it and that in particular the location of Austria would suffer. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're so young anyway, you're never standing!]] We owe the prosperity in Austria to the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, namely the free movement of persons, the free movement of services – to stand on the border for hours – will not help. Whatever we need are effective return agreements. It may not be that States do not take back their nationals, although they do not have a residence permit here. The Foreign Minister, like the Minister of the Interior for the Interior, has been called upon to carry on in this regard for months. The fact is, with this European policy, the short list – new EIAs will not go much further, the only thing it will achieve is to destroy Europe in the long term, and I think that is very dangerous. This is the most dangerous statement we have ever heard from the Foreign Minister: the renationalisation of border controls. That is exactly what we recognize that there has long been nothing left in relation to Europe and the economy in the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11343	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11364	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “Walking or implementation?”, this question can be found in the title of our current hour. I think we can say here in summary that it will be the election campaign. This question can be answered in this way. Election campaign – unfortunately standstill, unfortunately announcement policy; unfortunately, only words will be accepted by us only, keyword: Protection zones – including from the FPÖ, as regards immigration, as regards the stop of immigration. In this regard, Mr Minister, you have welcome these demands, but: You have not implemented it, although you are in the government. Criticizing anyone, criticizing all, but making proposals, the opposition parties do. Of course, the government parties can do the same. But: Why are you in the government? – That you implement something, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You do not have much to show, but some previous speakers have already mentioned this today. Mr Minister, I would also like to address your current OSCE Presidency, which has also been criticized because you have broken new elections from the fence. This has also led to uncertainty, and there has also been criticism in this regard. Your goals, your plans for the OSCE Presidency – de-escalation in existing conflicts, strengthening confidence, fighting radicalization – are all beautiful words, but: How does it look in Austria? How does it look in the government? – For months you have been preparing your predecessors, getting rid of them, whatever, have not played with open cards and have simply not been honest. Even in January of this year, under the revised government agreement, you signed under the new government agreement. Now, many people are wondering: What is this, worth your signature? – You will not only be asked this question here today, but you will have to listen to this question often. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also very interesting to look at the reactions around the events of last Sunday and before. A movement was founded. The ÖVP is now a great movement. Movement is perhaps a bit negative in history, if you go back. I would like to remind you in 1995, when Jörg Haider decided on the Alliance-Bürger-98 movement at a party meeting at that time – well, there was a big call! Well, what kind of comments has there been! Everything was bad. You've always blamed him: The principle of leadership, not internal democracy. What's going on in the ÖVP? – Mr. Kurz gets all the powers, has a right of access until I do not know where to go. Nobody seems to disturb it! Then you sit down in the ORF studio for the show “In the center” and everything is eintel Wonne. Mr Koller probably already knows a new bold press promotion in the next government period. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is transparent, that's not honest! And I don't think that's going to be blamed by voters either. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As with the governance of the ÖVP, this also shows the past. The ÖVP calls new elections each time it appears opportunous. That was 1995 so, that was 2002, that was 2008 and – ha, surprise! – it’s the same in 2017. And here you say once again that you are there for the people that you want to work for the people that you are concerned about the problems of the people?- Oh, my God! – No, the exact opposite is the case! It's about: You now have good survey values. You have to use it, you have to break elections from the fence now, and you now have to try to move into the Chancellor's Office to get power, to demonstrate power with your new young force. This is not honest, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] We will, of course, be able – yes, the election campaign is open – to deal with those who deal with your mistakes for a long time, even in the election campaign. I would just like to conclude – and this has already been mentioned today – here also a few quotes. When you see how you think how you walk, how You turn – I think you will be enchanted sooner or later. In this case I think: sooner than later. I can only say the following: If you think we have too little welcome culture, that's what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11449	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11471	We must be aware of the background to these debates. In Europe, a reform of the EU, a reform of the eurozone is being debated. Further: How to deal with migration flows? How can employment be achieved? How can you even take steps to get better? – From now on, the Austrian representative, in the case of Foreign Ministers, will not have a major political weight, among other things. Everything's in motion. We've just got a campaign. Then there's a choice. No one knows how she's going to go out. No one knows what will happen afterwards. You just have to say that once so that you know what background all this takes place. In his farewell speech, which was very impressive, Mitterlehner had two important messages. One was: The ÖVP is not manageable. The second was: The ÖVP is risking government capacity. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The production was...!]] - That's the truth. After decades of membership in the government, she is putting all this at risk. [[Abg. New builder: Prawda!]] And why? – We sat down in the January, laborious, for days an adaptation and an extension of the government programme, but three months later, all of this is suddenly nothing?- Oh, my God! Well, what do the citizen and the citizen think? What are they for? What are they doing? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: staging!]] Then the clubman Lopatka comes and says: We are honest, and we have seven points in it. That's inconceivable! He could've done that before. That's just no one's thinking. [[Calls: Unbelievable]] And Sebastian Kurz refuses to make the vice chancellor. I say: Those who can't make the vice chancellor can't make the Federal Chancellor either. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] But even better I find: Even my predecessor goes this thesis... – To you I am still coming, you will be pale back there, you interlocutor, you! – I find the thesis best, there is a total conversion of the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] All fall in on it. No one reads the statutes of the ÖVP. All the points that Sebastian Kurz has made are already in the statute. The first one to come in was Viktor Orbán. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] It is likely that the statutes are not in Hungarian. He just saw, right of action, said: Great, this is our man in Austria!, sends a congratulations and in reality: Do you know what the right of access signals, among other things? – That there are a few sittings that should not sit there at all! [[pointing to the ÖVP’s seat series]] That's the message. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] You know what? - Now you have to be careful! Maybe the next time you don't sit in here again. I have to tell you honestly, that is at least an aspect that, as I think... – prefer voice, that is my favorite topic, yes. [[Abg. Wheelers: There are no preferred voices in the SPÖ?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's called Vormundung. First, the chairman selects who is on the list, and then the citizen is allowed to decide who he is giving a preference vote or who is not. This is a model of foresight, not a model of democracy, Mr Interlocutor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But my favorite is Hanni Mikl's leader. Yes, my darling is Hanni Mikl's leader. . Now the Lower Austrian Members will soon be caught up in awe. - Why? – In fact, on television, during the “time in the picture” she said: All right, total conversion, anyway. Sebastian Kurzsoll at federal level can do what we do at national level. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] What does that mean? What does that mean? – Sebastian Kurz can appoint the poor Secretary-General – or the Secretary-General. He can appoint the couple on the federal list and the few in the government group. [[Abg. Wheelers: You have also been replaced!]] And that's it! That's it! The rest, as before, do the heads of state. He can still stage himself like this: Friday, press conference, Sebastian Kurz sends the message to the heads of state in Alpbach. It was the self-coronation that took place there. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I know only one self-croning from history, even the Pope was there. Then one of them took the crown and set it up. And do you know where it ends? – Waterloo has finished it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11642	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11663	Mr. Foreign Minister! Minister of Justice! Mr. State Secretary Mahrer! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you've been listening to my colleague Cap now, you know that the SPÖ and German Chancellor Kern have been in the mood of election since his accession and Mr. Altklubmann Cap has already been warm. That was proof of this now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a subject on the safety field, which is very, very important, on the agenda. You have to be grateful to the Stronach team for having the opportunity to discuss this. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Foreign Minister does not listen! It's just typing!]] Unfortunately, this has not been done by many previous speakers because they have purely taken care of the spirit of election. We now have the opportunity to show the Austrians what has been achieved through the line of the ÖVP and, above all, through the line of Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurzim in the area of migration and integration. It was Sebastian Kurz – that was already praised by opposition parties – which was always on the right side in the migration question from the start and has given the right lines. Sebastian Kurz was not at the Westbahnhof near the Welcomestrupps. And he wasn't... – Mr. Collegue! – He was also not there when the Doskozil axis – Kern via Nickelsdorf and the ÖBB led the refugee flows through Austria. [[Abg. Höbart: But Mikl- Leitner was there! The Interior Minister was there!]] Sebastian was on the right side. It was only after some time that we were able to set the course correctly at the SPÖ. Then the Lok Doskozil/Kern has also swirled towards our line in the migration area and has turned – as with many other things. That was important; and that was the merit of the ÖVP and Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the elections and the locust who has just led these refugee flows through Austria are addressed again and again, then exactly the elections are the area where Austrians can consistently remove the leader Kern as the German Chancellor and take a new path. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was also a very central point – this has already been addressed today – that the Balkan route could be closed, that only a small part of refugees are coming over this route, much less than then on individual days alone. It is also Sebastian Kurz who, at European level, is fully committed to closing the Mediterranean route. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is understandable that the European Union is increasingly turning on our course, on the course of the Foreign Minister, because it simply needs sustainable and sustainable solutions in this area. This concerns not only the protection of borders, but also, above all, cooperation with the countries of origin. Our foreign minister has recently returned to Libya to take important steps there and also to provide assistance on the ground, with a view to ensuring that refugees can stay in that region. [[Abg. Hoebart: Yes, yes! ...!]] Of course, it is necessary – and this is a central task of the European Union – to protect the common external border. It was important – and it was also Austria, which was quite massively behind it – to set up the European Border and Coast Guard Frontex and to increase its staff. We still need to strengthen this agency accordingly so that refugee flows can also be consistently controlled and the borders secured. Sebastian Kurz was highly criticized for this when he said: The rescue from the Mediterranean cannot automatically be a ticket to Europe. - That's perfectly right. This must be fought consistently. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Keep power!]] People must be brought back to their countries of origin. Asylum procedures are to be carried out in centres outside the EU that bring people back or are housed in safe areas of protection. A sentence on integration, because this point is included in the current hour: Sebastian Kurz has long presented this integration package. When one hears from the SPÖ that it has been blocked a lot, I ask: Yes, what was blocked? How long has this integration package been blocked? What about the Foreign Rights Change Act? – Today, we will decide on this integration law with the consistent principle of promoting and demanding; above all, we will also demand that the person who has rights with us also have obligations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have demonstrated in the area of migration and integration – and, of course, the Foreign Minister – what is necessary to take the right steps. We have shown European leadership. As this has already been mentioned today: Of course, there is a need for further action here, but you can be sure that the Austrian People's Party has visions and goals and knows what measures are needed. If we have the opportunity and the majority to do so, we will implement it accordingly – for our Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11796	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11818	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Hammer, you have made a great effort here now, but I must let you down: The Foreign Minister did not listen to you like he does not listen to all this morning. He's just playing on his phone. This is really inconceivable, Minister. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and NEOS, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] But now I come to the current hour, whose theme of integration the Stronach team has brought in here. Minister Kurz, you are also Minister for Integration. In this capacity, Mr Minister, you have not done anything to date. [[Abg. Lugar: He's calling!]] In your capacity as Minister of Integration, you have not brought any government paper here in this House since 2013. [[Abg. Neubauer: The telephone ban also applies to ministers!]] That's a disregard for this house. What, do you think, are you Minister of Integration? If you're talking about integration working so well, then I'm already asking myself the question: Where does she work? – We are here in the state capital. Look at the West Railway Station! Every week you have the street battles between Afghans and Chechens. Where did integration work? Or look at the Praterstern! Where did integration work? – It doesn’t work at all because you didn’t have time to do anything for this integration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have not yet submitted anything. The only thing – you have explained this to us again today – is: They're the one who closed the Balkan Route. Mr. Federal Minister, you know very well that, first of all, she is not close – but, apart from that, the Balkan route did not close you, Mr. Minister. It was Orbán who closed her by closing the border with Serbia. He closed the Balkan route. They went to the photo shoot and said: Yeah, that's good. We Austrians want that too. However, people continue to simmer over Croatia, through Slovenia towards Austria. You know that very well. There are the narrow places, only the route is a much more complex and much more difficult one. So have closed You personally nothing at all! The only border guard you've made is any metal stand in the vineyards. This is the Austrian border guard. Don't be mad at me! So you really can't do that now. It's more like you've got to get used to it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] I'm wondering, Minister: You know, Orbán has now congratulated you – that may already be everything – but one thing is clear: Where were you, then, when Prime Minister Orbán was accused by the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, when the latter drew an NS comparison? - You didn't hear anything about it at all. Nothing at all! What parts of the EIA have been used to exclude Orbán from the EPP? There was nothing to hear from you either. You don't hear anything from you. How many feedback agreements have you concluded since 2013?– I don't know. None at all! They haven't brought anything together since 2013. The only thing you've done is: They've staged well. That's what you did. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You even managed to let yourself be crowned as the new Messiah. It's not uncomplicated: This medial hype, which now applies to Mr. Kurz, we had a year ago with Mr. Kern. That also says a lot about the state of this government. This media hype you staged! They are actually just as a staging artist as the German chancellor. They do not distribute the pizza outside, but ÖVP-internal for the common ÖVP election people, which then says: [[Demonstrated by Mrs Scherak and Mr Loacker]] Yeah, we want a little more of that. In reality, you don't do anything new at all. Of your seven points, six are already included in the ÖVP Statute. So what did you ask for and enforce? There is no ÖVP new either. It stays with the ÖVP. There's probably a few new people you're gonna sit down there now, but otherwise everything will stay with the old. Your staging goes so far as to stand before the media, just by chance when the “ZIB 1” is running at 7.30 p.m., so that the press conference is also broadcast live to the Austrians’ living rooms. Shut up! You did well, you obviously have good media advisors, but in reality there is nothing behind it. I say to you: Do you know, Minister Kurz, the Austrians now had a year of campaign with Trachtenjanker and with military music. And what has become of it, we see that every day. The Austrians don't get to talk about anything so quickly. They have now noticed that you have to question what's behind it. If you, Minister Kurz, are producing and saying that you are so great because you have requested 1 Euro jobs and non-profit activities for asylum seekers, I say: You probably did, but with the thought of continuing to push the wage level. You want to continue to flood the Austrian labour market with low-cost workers, you want to push any asylum seekers into jobs that are not at all available – this is a blackout competition, in the low-paid sector where we already have a huge number of unemployed people – instead of producing and seeing that you are doing something for integration. To your statements – because you have shaken your head before – that the immigrants are more educated than the Austrians: I can still remember this debate here, because you followed me in the hall and said: Can I show you my statistics? These statistics are correct! – This is your access. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] In fact, they have done nothing but present themselves in recent years. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] You are a master of self-representation – still – but you are pressing ahead with the responsibility; then you would rather introduce the Minister of Justice, who, interestingly, just a few days ago, namely last Thursday, said in the Federal Council: I'm not at my disposal, and I'm not in any other position at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11914	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion now, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11929	I'm wondering what's changed. In total, Mr Minister, you have not really brought something forward, and therefore it would have been honest for you to step back and take the hat.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11956	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11978	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Unfortunately, there is currently no lady on the government bank. Appreciated guests at the gallery! Above all, I would like to welcome the young people who are watching us during this debate. I think we could all give a better picture together. [[Call the ÖVP:... every time!]] I've been through this all the time: We are trying to teach our children and young people in Austria, which means what it means to take each other seriously, to take each other for full; and I know that there are new elections and some nerves are blank, but I think we are doing well – especially when we have so many young people with us and certainly very many spectators on the screens – that we as elected elected representatives also show and live this appreciation to each other. I'd like to keep going. We have heard a few arsons here, and if you take politics seriously – and we are all elected to implement policy and not to accuse one another – it is worth looking at the concrete policy made by Mr Sebastian Kurz in the last six years. He has been sitting in the Federal Government for six years, even if he is currently acting as if he would not want to take over the job of Vice Chancellor. A fresh quote from his speech: “Europe will be us on this issue” – in parentheses: Refugee defence – “follow”. – I thought we were Europe, Mr European and Foreign Ministers. I thought the EU was made up of 28 European Member States, and I thought Austria was one of those Member States. “Europe will follow us on this issue,” says the Minister of Europe; it obviously does not belong to Europe. – So much about the state of the so-called Europe Party of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But Europe is also more than the EU!]] Second point: What has Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs fought for in recent months? – The reduction of family support for citizens of other European countries who work in Austria means that EU citizens are treated differently in the EU. – Another interesting idea by European Minister Sebastian Kurz of the ÖVP European Party. Third point: Praise for authoritarian heads of state such as Viktor Orbán. I quote Sebastian Kurz“Let’s listen to the separation in good and evil”. – It was said that Viktor Orbán, who declared civil society associations to be spies in his own country, would watch without harm when Roma and Sinti were shot on the open road. So we should stop "with the separation of good and evil," says Mr. European and Foreign Minister. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The Christian-Social ÖVP!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Just as you deal with the young Greens!]] – Thank you for the appreciative handling! [[Abg. Wheelers:... not valued!]] I have been referring to very specific quotations and to concrete policies by Sebastian in short, re legible in the APA and in all kinds of media, and I think we should measure each other by our actions, by our policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: More appreciation!]] “All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights. They are gifted with reason and conscience, and they should be in the spirit of fraternity” – I welcome it: in the spirit of consolation – “ meet.” – This is Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, and I plead that when we talk about unemployment for example, we always talk about unemployed people, remember that we are all born in the same way as dignity and rights. Every time we talk about homeless people in politics and elsewhere, we should remember that we are all born the same as dignity. And we should also do that when we talk about people seeking protection, because people seeking protection also have the same human dignity as we do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Yılmaz.]] I come to the conclusion: If many of us were born not by chance in Austria, but in Syria or in another war - leading country, we would today be protecting people and refugees. In this sense, we need a policy of human dignity in all policy areas, including people seeking protection. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12099	Mr Brandstetter spoke on behalf of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12120	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I can hold it very briefly; because I was personally addressed, I would just like to say one thing: When I was asked by the Foreign Minister last night if I could imagine that, as Vice-President of the Government, we would make a contribution to the fact that we agreed on the still open projects, which we can agree on and, in principle, agreed on in the enlarged government programme, we are still on the way to a conclusion, and thus to ensure that exactly what is happening to the people is rightfully expected, namely that this Federal Government really ends its activity constructively and in dignity, I said: [[Abg. Moser: contract law, for example!]] Yes, if it is really about implementing any more projects, and not just about being available formally, I can imagine that well. This has changed over the last few hours, because as you all know, I have never really had personal ambitions on any offices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I've never developed this ambition, I'm really not very committed to the prestige, but one thing I want to say: The situation reminded me of those I found three and a half years ago when I came to the government. At the time, Michael Spindelegger – who is of course my friend to this day, I have always said so – brought me to the government, with the clear mission: The area of justice is to be run with the right to party independence; we want to do so, too, the SPÖ! – I have made an honest effort, and you will confirm this claim. That was a new way, an innovative way; it was not always the case. Now I had a similar feeling: Sebastian Kurz also goes new ways, innovative ways; I think that would have been the first time there was a party-free vice chancellor. But I would like to make it clear: I would have done this and would only do so if there was a real opportunity to make what everyone expects to do, namely to implement the projects started. There are many projects, there are a lot of things, not just what is already in Parliament. We have a number of things in agreement with the government partner, and it is almost complete that one could already implement until the election that has to be held. [[Abg. Moser: contract right!]] The time until then – I think people expect it and I would like to do it – should be useful to implement these projects in the interest of the population until the last day. Only for that I would explain myself, and only for that I would commit myself. That's what it would be about me, really not anymore. Allow I would like to make a personal comment: You know, a few weeks ago I spoke here in the House on a subject that is unfortunately still very up-to-date: Hate on the Internet. I said then, I don't understand the hatred in society and the Internet, I don't know where he comes from, I don't know if he's back or still there. I have the impression that we now remember attacks from this hatred in the political debate and debate, and that is what worries me if I can say so, because I cannot share this hatred; so it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am a matter politician, and I have implemented over 50 legislative projects in the area of justice – I do not want to boast of it – with your support, many unanimously, also difficult laws that also require internal voting in both government parties. The ÖVP has given me the opportunity to run the party independent. It has always supported me, and I am grateful for that, because this has given us the opportunity to implement, together with all of you, some important reforms that, as I believe, are very important for the people as well; just think about the state-of-the-art reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatterer and intermediate call at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm really talking about. Some things would still have to be done, something else would have to be implemented. I personally – if I may close with it – have the lessons from the 20th century. When I moved to Austria in the 19th century, I personally did that, and I think you should always think about it; this is just important to me personally. But there is still a lot of work to be done here, and if that is possible, I would like to make myself available to it as before. Now there's only one sentence for me: Get to work! - That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12193	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12214	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I congratulate Federal Minister Brandstetter, at least in his words Foreign Minister Kurz lifts his eyes off the phone and devotes his attention to him. [[Abg. Wheelers:... Problems...!]] The Foreign Minister has a very good feeling when it comes to finding out what people want to hear where they are sensitive. However, he implements this in a form that he then tends to say what people like to hear, and there is the thing for him then secondary. If he feels that it is political to demand border controls within the EU, then he does so – and then he doesn't care what it would be like for Austrian entrepreneurs, what it would be called for the transport industry, for example, if we were to drop the borders and try to play an island within Europe. In the “press hour” a few weeks ago, Minister, have They have risen to the statement – you have been able to mix immigration from outside Europe with European internal migration – that EU citizens who come to Austria are bringing social benefits to us from the first day and have tried to insinuate a kind of social-smart debate. – You know that's not true, you played with the emotions again. They knew that people liked to hear it, and they said it so; unfortunately, the journalist you asked was slipping through. But what you are buying with the policy you are starting to buy is a damage to the economy, is a damage to the companies in Austria. In conclusion, if you think that you are demanding labour market access restrictions for EU citizens, you also need to know what this means for industry in Austria, which employs German and Czech workers in the border area. It is also necessary to know what this means for the tourist destinations in Austria where EU citizens are employed. You could lock up the ski resorts on the Arlberg, in the Paznaun Valley, in Salzburg, if there were not Hungary and Germans working in the tourism industry, because the Austrians simply don't. Of course, it sounds really great when, in the “press hour”, one goes to the EU citizens who are supposed to benefit from the social benefits from us, but that’s what Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein says – not at all social-smaroters, but who come to us for a tourism season; they pay social security contributions and taxes for this season, and afterwards they are gone again. [[Abg. New builder: These are two pairs of shoes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] They're even a super business for the social state. A foreign minister would not only know that, I even assume, you know that, and you know the opposite, because it gives you more political points to say the opposite. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] It's not about the economy, it's not about jobs, it's not about Austria, it's about the last three letters from Austria: me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] This is also noted by what the new People's Party now means: [[Abg. Neubauer: In this speech!]] The SPÖ has an Ö in it, the old ÖVP has an Ö in it, even the FPÖ has an Ö in it, we are called NEOS – The New Austria, but in the list Sebastian Kurz – the new People's Party is no longer about Austria; that is no longer happening, and I think that is symptomatic.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12325	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12356	Madam President. Mr. Minister on the Government Bank! [[The speaker presents the 500-kilometre route across the Mediterranean from Libya to Sicily, with an arrow labeled “ Here Saved” from an imaged frontex ship to a point 20 kilometres from the Libyan coast on this route, on the speaker’s desk.]] Mr. Kurz, you said today you felt bound to the government programme. My colleague, Mr Schenk, has already called into question the credibility of the signature, and the third government programme has already been announced in this short period by Mr Klubobmann Lopatka. Attention was accordingly low because we know that it was not even possible at the first time to achieve essential successes in approaches, namely what was promised in the elections, what the electorate would expect to do at each election event. Thankfully, I have heard several times today: The voters simply won't believe it anymore! because it's not like if you don't bring anything together over a few periods, then succeed. Because Minister Schelling is also here: He has described the state of this party or government very well; he has said that the social partners have been in the coma for 20 years, they just don't know yet. I think these are the burdens that the citizens feel. It is the lack of reform, but we have the opportunity to discuss it after the Government Declaration. There is a presumption that a second attempt is being made to shut down an investigation committee. There has to be something... – That's always the problem: [[Abg. Lugar: (on some Members speaking to the government bank with the ministers present) Madam President, this is not a coffee house wreath...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I mean, what is this?]] [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, disrespect without end!]] [[The Members will return to their seats.]] The government says that the opposition does not suggest anything, but if you do not listen, you cannot know it and believe that you are right yourself. This is the main problem, as is the case in the committees. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I come to this government and to the inaction that exists: Since 2009, the Quality Seal Act has been abrogated – you have to imagine that! Call me a company, call me a family in which problems are postponed for years! This is nowhere else, only in politics; the entrepreneurs shake their heads. There you can't say that now new faces are coming and now everything is different. As a cattle breeder, I allow myself to make the following comparison: I have a stable full of sick animals and mean, if I change, the stable will be healed, everything will be all right. - I'll let you evaluate this yourself. These are the facts we need to talk about. Minister, you mentioned the quality difference between asylum policy in 2015 and 2016: When we talk about quality illegals in 150,000 cases – we had 150,000 attacks in 2016 – we only know what it means when the government speaks fully about ceilings. Uppers of what? – Of those who have been picked up, of those whom one does not know, or of those who are calculated to enter the border? – This is the next great story. And where is the difference in quality when – and that is why I am speaking on this issue, because a declaration of government was issued – one day in April 8 200 asylum seekers were brought to Europe? - It's not a coincidence! To this picture If the shortest distance from Libya to Sicily is 520 kilometers, why are these refugees then taken 20 kilometres from the Libyan border from Frontex and transported to Italy? – In Australia, the tugs are taken, the boats destroyed, the refugees brought back to the coast, and we are discussing what we are doing with this storm. [[pointing to the table set before him]] You hear in the media about cooperations between NGOs with the tractors – yes, wonderful, that works like lubrication! If we had a palm oil discussion, I'd know what lubricant to use. The decisive thing is that we speak of quality: I can buy a passport of 120 €, I can buy a birth certificate, I can buy a marriage certificate at 28 €. What quality is that? - That's the question. That's where I can throw my pass away a meter from the border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] We have seen this in Traiskirchen – see the book “Brennpunkt Traiskirchen” by Mr Schabhüttl: There was the greatest difference in age in an actual 52-year-old who was published as a 16-year-old. That's the facts, there's annoyance. If Europe is put into duty, I must say, I look forward to this with great fear. I was in Berlin, I looked at such refugee camps. There are 270 people in such a tent, these are most unworthy states. We can't do that! The Mama Merkel can say a thousand times that we can do this. - We can't do that! We're already paying with the money of our anchors. This is no longer the money of our children, but the money of our anchors. That is why we call for action to be firm and clear, but in the sense of our citizens. Our programme is quite clear: Human beings are at the centre of attention. This does not have to be mentioned, that must be the basic task of every Member and every Member in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12462	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12485	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! On the topic of integration, election or implementation: Merkel-Faymann's welcome culture provided and gave Austria an unmistakable amount of economic and social migrants, and an end is not foreseeable. Austria has reached its borders with the currently co-imported residence of approximately 125 000 foreigners. The measure is full. When the domestic economy was originally informed that well-trained staff were coming with the migrants, the opposite soon turned out to be true. They were and are mostly economic and social migrants. Austria as a net payer has been left in the rain with the suspension of the Schengen agreements and the EU continues to face total failure. After hearing, Frontex is not concerned with securing the EU's external borders, but with the towing of further refugees from the territory of African countries. Austria is therefore committed to safeguarding the domestic culture and to protecting the domestic population and economy as an independent border guard. However, a lack of border security constitutes the EU's prohibited safeguarding of the Brenner border, with a continuation of the Welcome Culture by the ÖBB in the framework of colported free movement of refugees. Integration is mainly to be described as failure. Integration requires language skills, education and also recognition of our culture. Although some measures have been put in place on the part of the Federal Government to ensure successful integration, most of these measures, if any, are only slowing down. Successful integration also requires jobs, housing and the like. In the case of persistently high numbers of unemployed Austrian citizens, it is preferable to do so in the event of job placements. The management of the refugee situation is thus more than an election campaign. We will measure you, Mr Foreign Minister, by your actions and your promises. A complete closure of the Balkan route, a tolerance of illegal double-citizenships Involuntary and failure or failure to negotiate with the withdrawal of criminal foreigners by their home countries are the negative balance of four years of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12522	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12544	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, the current hour is really about to come to an end, 'Protective zones, border control and integration: [[Abg. Cap: He's not here!]] Electoral campaign or implementation?’ Mr. Justice Minister, I can thank you for your honest statement and your honest words. Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz, I think you are treating the subject as if you had never been a member of this Federal Government. That's just not the right thing to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Protection zones are a very important factor. Border security is an equally important and necessary factor. The border security was first considered not necessary by the Federal Government, but then set up. First it was said by the then Minister of the Interior and the current head of state of Lower Austria that border fences must not be said. One should talk about measures, action was the magic word. These measures, however, did not succeed in the flow of refugees, ladies and gentlemen. The EU's external borders were practically non-existent, and therefore each country itself had to secure its borders to protect itself from total alienation. With regard to integration, everything is mixed here: Refugees, asylum, integration, immigration. [[Abg. Korun: You do it yourself!]] – Mrs Colleague, one thing is certain: These massive flows of refugees endanger the future of our next generation. People must be helped, including refugees, but on the spot, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot all vote these problems, even financially. One thing is very worrying about our country and our people, namely that the rule of law has been totally removed on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12596	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:47:30]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12618	We are thus coming to the current European hours on the subject: ‘Perspectives of the European Union’s budgetary policy’ I also welcome the Minister for Finance. First of all, Mrs Tamandel. Madam honourable Member, you have a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12648	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The current European hour is concerned with the prospects of the European Union's budgetary policy. This issue has always been a matter for us, but now that people in the UK have decided to leave the European Union, it is more concerned with us than ever. For example, the Multiannual Financial Framework for the years 2014 to 2020 sets a ceiling of €1 087 billion in commitment appropriations and of €1 025 billion in payment appropriations for more than seven years. These dimensions cannot be imagined at all. However, a simpler size is the 1% of EU-28 gross national income. I think that is also a good example of future financing. We believe that this model, i.e. this 1% of the gross national income of the 27 Member States, can be continued. This would mean that the revenue lost by the UK's exit could be compensated for, thereby reducing the overall budget. Austria and the Austrian taxpayers have a gross contribution of approximately €3 billion to the European Union, which can be seen in the Federal estimates 2017. I think we have to distinguish two areas: One is the question of what to do in the future if the British have actually resigned. This is likely to happen with April 2019. However, we also need to consider what will be after 2020, so if the financial framework expires. The Austrian position is clear: There must be no more contributions from Austria to the European Union. Many Member States of the European Union themselves have very busy households. This is because of the problem of refugees, which is because of the high level of unemployment. Many Member States have very, very high youth unemployment; some Member States, such as France, where a new President, already in office, has not been able to comply with the fiscal rules for years. The Austrian position was always: You have to stick to the rules of the fiscal game, because it can't be that one always fails to do so in times of crisis. But I know that there are other opinions. What's going to be lost to us through the Brexit? – The European Union is losing a lot of economic power. With regard to the budgetary perspectives, we will be missing about 12.5 percent of the EU budget in the coming years. This is already a large amount, considering that Austria's contributions account for about 2.5 percent of the total EU budget. We also believe that the United Kingdom must meet its commitments by 2020, even if the withdrawal is carried out in April 2019. You have to remember that many other things hang on this exit. For example, the British rebate also affects other countries, because we also had some of it. This concerns, for example, our neighbours Germany, but it also concerns the Netherlands and Sweden. We must not be further burdened by this withdrawal. We believe that the British must now meet their commitments, namely a European Union of €60 billion to the United Kingdom. For us, there are two scenarios available, both of which are not very optimal, I would like to say now: The first scenario is that there is a hard Brexit, and the British have not only left, but also received back flows from the European Union. This would be very bitter for us, because if the European Union did not cut expenditure and a compensation would result in an additional contribution of €1.3 billion for Austria. This is unimaginable, considering that we are constantly talking about spaces in Austria, about future measures that are necessary and for which no money is available. The Austrian position is therefore clear: No additional funds can be allocated to the European Union. In a better case, there would still be €900 million from Austria, but this is also a really very suboptimal scenario. What can you do for the future? – I think it is necessary that we think beyond 2020. What can the European Union do to ensure that the British leave? First, the European Union should move forward with structural reforms. In any case, we need expenditure analyses, including a discussion on European added value. First, I spoke about the refugee problem: Europe or rather some countries in Europe – unfortunately, one must say so to God – for example Austria, Germany and Sweden have a very heavy burden. We therefore need measures for integration, for integration into the labour market. The people who have come to Europe must once become self-sustainable. Member States cannot stand up forever for their maintenance while sitting and waiting. Also the Greens in Vienna will eventually have to understand that the system will eventually get out of the joints if they do not reform the minimum security. We must do everything we can to integrate the people who have come to Europe, who have come to the European Community, into the work process and into society. The European Union must also contribute to this. We need an integration fund, which will also be divided according to how many refugees have taken up the individual national states. I think that is a very, very essential point. We must continue to make great efforts to stimulate economic growth in the European Union, because without this it will not be possible, for example, to reduce the unemployment rate in the Member States in the long term. In general, I think, one thing is clear: We don't need any additional own resources. We can let it be used for the 1% that the Member States as a whole put it into the European budget. The only thing that would have been really good as a share of own resources is, of course, the financial transaction tax. But we all know, and the Minister of Finance can certainly sing a song of it: As long as only ten Member States or perhaps only nine of them agree to this financial transaction tax and it is not a European tax, it will also not be a share of own resources for the contributions of the Member States concerned. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue. This is also important for the acceptance of the European Union by the population. We must not forget in the heart of all Europe's kindness and of all Europe: Acceptance will only be given if people feel that Europe does not regulate too much, it allows the nation states to do what they can best, and let them make laws where they can do it themselves. In the Austrian budget too, savings have to be made, so it is necessary that savings be made in the European budget when the British leave the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12727	Mr Schelling spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12749	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! There is no doubt that Europe is facing major challenges, but also upheavals. Of course, everything that is being changed has an impact on long-term budgetary policy. The crucial question for Europe will be what topics to focus on, because it is perfectly clear that the strategy that Europe is choosing will also create the necessary structures. Structures also mean the translation into the budget and the European Union budget figures. In addition to this concentration on certain topics, away from these detailed controls by the European Union on vacuum cleaners, light bulbs or other things, the second major challenge is to check whether the existing financial possibilities have adequate scope to focus on these issues. I'll come back shortly after that. The second issue which has already been raised by honourable Members Tamandl isworship. We're losing a big net payer with the Brexit. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but we also lose a gross blocker!]] It must be perfectly clear that you can't just take it that way and say: The gap is filled. – That will not be acceptable at all. At the moment, it is so difficult to hold this discussion because it is not even clear what the British will have to pay at all in the future and what has to be done from the past. The figures are between €60 billion and €100 billion, and these commitments must be accepted. It is not clear what the new treaty with Britain will look like and what programmes Britain will participate in. Logically, everything that Britain will participate in will trigger the fact that the UK has to pay for it, just as it has just been agreed with other countries. It is therefore difficult to estimate. This challenge should now be overcome in the short term so that one can estimate what measures are coming, which is not and how big the gap really is. However, it is clear that most of the Member States of the European Union will not be ready to close this gap without any discussion due to their strained budgetary situation. We have also already announced that Austria as a net payer is not ready to fill this gap accordingly. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] What are the key issues that Europe will have to focus on? – One thing is of course growth and employment, but of course we also have other challenges: How do we deal with a common strategy on climate change and climate change? How do we deal with a common strategy for digitisation and infrastructure? How do we deal with a common research strategy in Europe? These decisions will be conditional on how to channel the resources of the future budgets. If the European Commission is constantly calling for structural reforms in the Member States – and this discussion is also being held here in Austria – it is perfectly logical that the first step in the way in which the financial plan and the budget continue is that we must also call for structural reforms from the European Union. I think this is a very important point of approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Even though Mr Rossmann is once again characterized by intercessions, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that he is the one who says that we should bring together the responsibility for expenditure and revenue. This has not been dealt with by Europe so far, because there is no European tax – there is no European CO2 tax, there is no European financial transaction tax – which can very well relieve national budgets of income-neutral burden if Europe itself has the responsibility for the revenue of these funds. I believe that it is right that we also discuss this question very openly on behalf of this structural discussion. Of course, it will also be a question of what means can be re-examined. There is already an intensive discussion on the various funds, but also on the question of whether there should be benefits, i.e. a bonus for those countries that implement structural reforms. There are also others who demand a malus for those who, for example, have not contributed in the context of integration efforts and in the context of refugee movements. A crucial point for this question will be: Can we represent the added value of Europe to citizens? – This is a critical point to re-force and control the mood towards Europe, because a small country like Austria has benefited particularly from this Europe. But there will necessarily be something that is always called for, namely the fight against the abuse of European funds. If you listen to the numbers, you'll be quite different. There, too, measures should be taken to get the budget back into focus in the medium term. Of course, I believe that funding systems need to be simplified, and I believe that Europe now has a time frame to discuss the question of European revenue. The financial transaction tax can only work at the end if all Member States participate. I confess to say: Let us take this financial transaction tax as a contribution to the European budget and thus relieve national budgets! – Then the discussion is also about whether such a tax creates competition between the national states, from the table. Or, for example, I have mentioned this before, take a Europe-wide CO2 issue: These too could actually be introduced in Europe without creating a more stringent new competitive situation. It is clear, of course, that, even if we focus on these issues which I am discussing, we need to consider the application of additional funds. What about external security and the protection of Europe's borders? And how do we put this model on? – There are several proposals for this, but no consideration. We will need to know what progressive digitalisation means, for example, in the issue of tax law for Europe. What does digitisation mean for the expansion of infrastructure for Europe? – I am in a very simple position, regardless of the budgetary situation: Europe will have to deal with these issues together in order to be able to exist in globalised international competition. This is a central point that we too are discussing and that we can make a significant contribution during our EU Presidency next year so that it can be implemented as well. We are also lagging behind in the liberalisation of services. This is also a question of growth, which the Commission is constantly articulated. It is also clear that we are currently unable to develop a real research strategy for Europe beyond the programmes, which continues to open up opportunities for competition on the world market. I believe that those countries that are currently net payers are sufficiently burdened and that there will therefore be no way of creating further burdens. By the way: The countries which are net payers also have a very busy budgetary situation, with few exceptions. [[Abg. Rossmann: Germany too?]] – Mr Rossmann, just listen! I said most countries, not all. You can now mention Germany, but it is the only country you can still mention, because everyone else is familiar with a tense financial situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] You know that the Netherlands, as far as the structural deficit is concerned, will rush away in the other direction, leaving these so-called freezing zones quite quickly. The European Integration Fund, which has been addressed, is, of course, a means by which Austria could become a net beneficiary, because we are a country that has done the most in the area of migration and refugees. I believe that in the long term, it is not a good idea simply to calculate the funds, but in reality, European funds should be used to support those countries that have made special efforts. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, the problems are not solved. With regard to the problem of integration, we are at the beginning and not yet at the end. I think it will also be possible, as part of the overall budget planning, to obtain infrastructure that was necessary to achieve this – schools and kindergartens – in order to get out of the budget framework and to obtain on-the-spot joint programmes from the EU, which will ensure measures to reduce migration flows. In Europe too, we are fully aware that it will be a matter of creating opportunities for local people so that they can stay in their home countries and do not have to take the path of migration at all. I think that these challenges need to be taken into account in the next budget planning. Austria will play a central role in this, because in the second half of 2018 we will have the presidency and the medium-term financial framework will be to negotiate exactly at that time. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12827	Next, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12848	Mr President. Yes, this is a very good topic for an up-to-date European hour, I only perceive a little bit of a text-screen: The Minister of Finance is responsible for the national budget, but he is not responsible for the European budget, but he does so on and on behalf of the Foreign Minister, but he is not there. So I don't quite understand why the ÖVP asks the non-competent questions, or does with him a current hour, and not with the competent. However, it must be for the former European Party or at least the former European Party of Europe to make up for itself whether it does not know how the European Union works, but only on the verge. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, you're right!]] Brexit is very important, yes. However, I would not expect gross figures, as Mr Tamandl did – how much do we have to pay and how much? – because it’s about net positions at the end of the day. Today, Britain is paying about €10 billion more to the European Union than it gets out. For Austria – for the comparison of sizes – this is 1 billion €. The Minister of Finance's approach is, of course, correct: We should look at red tape and administrative reduction in the European Union. The entire administrative budget of the European Union is €8 billion, but we are talking about €10 billion net less money. That is, in the administrative field, and that is what we see at first sight, will not be done. Then there are those who say: Let us increase revenue by the amount! For Austria it went net in about 100, 120 million € a year. I understand that they say they don't want to pay. Why should workers and employees pay more taxes for the European Union in this area? Then there is the short proposal – it has made a proposal; Mr Tamandel has presented him here –: We simply cut expenditure by 13 percent. This is, of course, also a possible variant. It should only be known that this of course also has an impact on Austria: for example, about € 150 million less per year for agriculture. Only the Lower Austrian farmers would lose €50 million in the year. That's where you have to say clearly what that means. So the one variant is that workers and employees pay more money, the other variant is for example, the farmers and the communities get less money from the European Union. I don't think both are really thought out and both are not wise. I and the SPÖ have proposed that those who do not pay taxes or make a fair contribution today should be obliged to fill this gap. A proposal has already been mentioned by the Minister for Finance, namely the Financial Transaction Tax. In other words, the financial market participant, who does not make a contribution today, is simply supposed to pay taxes. This could be used to finance this. Another proposal is that those international corporations that do not pay taxes today on tax tricks and so on – we know that an international coffee house chain in Austria pays less corporate tax than any sausage shop in Austria, and it is not so easy to catch those at Austrian level – which today do not make a fair contribution, at European level, to make the contribution that everyone else makes in Austria, the companies and the workers and the employees, so that they can finance it. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Steinbichler.]] Finally, one has to say again – and perhaps it also explains why the ÖVP has asked this question to the non-competent finance minister and not short; I think that has a very simple reason –: The general Council will discuss the budgetary issues in Europe. Now you can guess how often the Foreign Minister has participated in the General Council meetings since he was Foreign Minister. There were 31 sessions. How many times was he there? Nine times! That the ÖVP says: We can't ask him, because he doesn't know what he's talking about, because he's never there!, I understand. I find it particularly funny that the Foreign Minister used to demand punishments for school blacks. What about penalties for foreign ministers who are weakening their work in the General Council, the representation of Austria? There he should take himself by the nose and not always point his finger at others! - Thank you. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12904	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12925	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! We are discussing the prospects of the EU's budget policy at this current European hour. I would like to start by saying what Mr Krainer said on the subject of Brexit, because the EU is losing the second largest net payer with Brexit. [[Abg. Kogler: But also the biggest gross blocker!]] We expect less revenue of € 10 billion, so our statements cover up completely. What opportunities do we see for dealing with this loss of revenue in the EU? Yeah, right, we could all pay more. Yes, it is true that we could reduce all costs in percentage terms with a dash. We could combine that. This doesn't sound particularly positive for us as a net payer, even for the people who get money from the EU. That is to say, the Brexit is not only a body for Britain, but also for us, not only in free trade, in free movement, but also in the budget. Let's see this Brexit as an opportunity, too! If we see him as an opportunity to put pressure on the authorities, on the institutions of the European Union, because if there are fewer revenue, then pressure on reforms, towards new structures, and only through such pressure does something go on accordingly. A reduction in deposits is unlikely to be made. The remaining 27 states are also not responsible for the reduction, so they can negotiate and ask themselves: How can we change the structure? To change the structure, it is important to redefine the added value of EU added value. The EU must act where the national legislator no longer has the opportunity. The EU must also be active, and it must be tangible. Where do we feel? EU added value? – This is the protection of the external border, which is migration, which is research, which is a European economic stimulation. [[Abg. Kassinger: We don't feel anything there!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's where the added value belongs, that's where he belongs. There are also the budget resources concentrated accordingly. However, despite all structural changes, we also need to consider what revenue we will have in the future, and Austria is also a pioneer with our Finance Minister in the financial transaction tax. If you do not want to raise the general revenue, you have to put on it: How could we create direct revenue for the EU? Structural changes should also be made in the distribution of funds. It is an incentive system to better support the overarching objectives, whether it be the distribution of migration and immigration, whether it be the protection of external borders, whether climate change, or climate change measures, in which some countries make more and some less. Brexit must and will make it possible for the EU to redefine its added value, and this is also felt in the budgets. Brexit will bring with it a lot of structural changes. The Brexit will increase the ability to take more care of the light bulbs than of the great things of the European Union. And that will make Brexit an opportunity for Europe, and the budget will be an essential point of departure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12994	Mr Mag. Haider is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13016	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Perspectives of the European Union's budgetary policy: I can tell you the prospects for Austria: There will be 400 million more contributions to the Brexit. That's how it looks! You will not be able to defend yourself if the contribution is increased. [[Abg. Kogler: And you celebrated him as a great success!]] In reality, the European Union has the same problem as Austria, ladies and gentlemen: It does not have a revenue problem, it is a serious problem with expenditure. That's how it looks in the European Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The budget in 2016 amounted to € 144 billion, almost 40 percent of which is 39 percent in the agricultural sector and 34 percent in cohesion policy, i.e. mainly in infrastructure measures. This enormous expenditure in the agricultural sector is all the more surprising than even more than 5% of the workforce in Europe are working in this sector. [[Abg. Grill: Farmers!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the ÖVP! Even more amazing is where this money flows. It should be thought that it is up to the many small farmers, who may be encouraged, because the farm is not large enough to make the whole thing really competitive, but which, as we say, make a valuable, important contribution to the preservation of cultural landscapes. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] But you have to look at how much these small farmers get: They do not even receive a quarter of the funds made available to the agricultural sector, while three quarters of these funds are pumped into these affluent agricultural factories, which send low-cost products across Europe, thus removing and destroying the small producers from the market. There it becomes clear where this EU agricultural policy is going and where the resources that come from the contributions of the Member States are going. – Congratulations! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It really has to stop! We must end this instead of putting more money into these agricultural groups. It is no different with the infrastructure, for example, Spain pumped €40 billion from the infrastructure promotion into China's second largest high-speed rail network in the world, but that in China is 26 times bigger. What effect does this big-scale fool have? – The citizens can no longer afford the tickets, the utilization is 50 percent, the old railway network is completely neglected, and the state grants in Spain are all about it. Structural, sustainable improvements are also being made there, they are not carried out. – I congratulate you again! That too must be stopped and ended! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to this structural waste of money in these two areas, the error rate in the allocation of these funds is enormous: In 2015, it was 3.6 percent, in real figures 6.3 billion €. Error rate means fraud, it means nothing but sluggishness in the distribution of these means. Especially high is the waste of money, the destruction of money in two areas – you hear and marvel, which will it be? –: Agricultural support and infrastructure. – I congratulate you again! That too must stop, this too must be ended! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For competition, research and development and so on, only 13 percent of the budget is available – that is only mentioned on the margins. The safeguarding of the external borders is a complete disaster. There, Mr Groiß, the European Union fails completely: in an area where it would really be needed. Now that the British are leaving where the €10 billion of the British are missing, it could be thought that the European Union's leaders are going to sit down and think about where to save and actually avoid double-tracks and the like. – You could believe that, but of course it does not happen. The only thing that happens is to think about how to compensate the other net payers for the failure by leaving the British. Here, of course, one comes to Austria again – for us, then, €400 million, i.e. a rapid increase in our net contribution by 15 percent. It's likely to be because I don't trust SPÖ and ÖVP that they can turn it off. It is absolutely unthinkable for us liberals, I say quite clearly, even in view of the massive budgetary problems that SPÖ and ÖVP have put in place in recent years, even more in EU contributions. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Not with us liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13104	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13126	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a little more general point, but I should like to say in advance that the Federal Minister for Finance has delivered a very considerable opinion, as he has said on the real issue that, if national tax and tax quotas are reduced, one can perhaps recall European taxes, because that is the very question that then leads to a financial gap. I am going to address this, but I think a few fundamental points are more important because I drink after the FPÖ, but also because we now find a new party in Austria where we have to look at how it holds it in Europe; we have to look at what the short party has to say. – Now he is not here, the alleged Minister of Europe. This also applies to the FPÖ: Too much fear has also died as regards the issue of financing or the shift of competence. It is precisely the question of whether even in stormy times one puts on cohesion, on hope-giving actions or simply swims on the wave of fear or even fires them there or there. Unfortunately, this is the result of the short partygoers. - That's what it looks like now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have to deal with this, and it will happen even more often now. If you look at our country, then it is the case that the Social Democrats are tossing down and essentially the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, here in the House the Greens and the NEOS and then in the European Parliament to return to the ÖVP, the highly valued colleague Karas – who is still part of it, I think he is not a Shortian – per EU. Then we're done. Karas, by the way, now acts like an alien at the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The gravity center has shifted quite a bit there, it is not excluded, but it is at least extraterrestrial. You don't know if he'll join the short party. Anyway, this is adventurous for me: In the short-party European policy line, a similar moral adaptability can be diagnosed at high speed, as we found at the time at Karl-Heinz Grasser. If you think carefully, you will often come to the conclusion that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs of the Karl-Heinz Grasser is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Europe. That's not good in the long run. We're experiencing a staging, it's just like that these days. In fact, I would be right to give Federal Chancellor Core, 95 percent are staging, and this is, also against the background of the new media, excellently dominated, but it is here in these debates, hopefully at least, still the question of sincerity and honest politics. It is true that Foreign Minister Just there or there provides more lines of content, but that in a very, very limited field – the other topics on which he never says anything at all, we will now discuss. And what do we find there, on this field on which he moves? – He turns around with the plow and fears behind where the FPÖ has already plowed. On the highway one would say that he is turning and is a ghost driver, a European spirit driver, and is actually already in competition with the FPÖ there, and sometimes the SPÖ is still behind. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS]] That is why the question now arises who in this country and which groups here in Parliament are still acting pro-Europeanally in principle. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The short party not!]] In the context of these questions, this would mean that you do not take advantage of this situation on the occasion of Brexit. I mean, they fell on the snout anyway. Look at London or just about Glasgow or Northern Ireland, which is for a howling and tooth-kneading there! But this is another question, now it is a story of financing. My God, we don't overdramatize that, that's really childish! The fact that the ÖVP is in favour of cutting the issue in this way – I really thank you very much for having done this a little more generously, Mr Finanzminister; you still have to argue about the figures; this will be done by Mr Rossmann – is really a little spiritual. Do you want the European Union to be short and small, or what? - That's the wrong way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That is why it is much more reasonable to look at what are the great tasks that even need to be compacted there, and where one can drop. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That's a reasonable way, we should go. It is really a Europe of cohesion, a Europe of solidarity, a more humane Europe and, ultimately, a Europe of economic reason. I have not yet found anything at Foreign Minister's, he's a zero-grouper, and that's not going to happen in the long run. We know where we're going. You don't know about the ÖVP yet. Maybe you'll explain this once!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13192	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13214	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I've got to say it again. The EIA now goes to this level, which we often criticise, namely that they are said to be indebted in Brussels, which must be reformed. I would therefore like to take a look at what the European Commission says about Austria and about the reforms that are due to us, since, of course, I can only ask others to do what I myself am willing to do. I can't say, You need to reform first, and nothing happens to me. The EU Commission's country-specific recommendations for Austria are always very clear when it comes to what we should do. The monetary benefits will remain roughly the same in Austria by 2021. A certain social state, a certain level is important for a modern country, but there are challenges. We must address what this government has just left to the left in recent years, and this includes, among other things, a substantial pension reform requested by the European Commission on several occasions. A year ago, this Federal Government, which you, Mr Minister, are negotiating, presented us with a pension reform which has not at all contributed to making the system more stable, but has only provided for additional expenditure. A link between the retirement age and the growing life expectancy required by the EU Commission is not taking place. One thing I have to ask now – you are also the minister who attaches to the flags to abolish the cold progression, namely that there is also an automatic adjustment of the rates in the tax system –: Why is automatic income tax super, and with pensions an automatic is not super? – This question concerns both government parties, which unfortunately are currently characterised by inactivity. If you are not willing to take up reforms in pension systems, you will buy poverty. That is what we are looking at now. The social report has shown that the average new pension in 2015 was 5% lower than in the previous year, and this is a trend that may not continue at this rate but still continue. In other words, seeing eyes goes towards an poverty of old age, and this social system, which can actually ensure less and less, is financed by a heavy tax burden. This slows down employment, slows development, slows innovation as well as private investment, and this does not make use of the potential we actually had in Austria. The EU Commission, in its country-specific recommendations, is also concerned that the potential of citizens in that country is being broken. This applies, for example, to the labour market, where we benefit far too little from the employment potential of women, where we have a far too low employment rate among women and where those who go to work work work far too often and to far too little part-time. Instead of ensuring equal opportunities, additional benefits are subsequently compensated for in the social state. The same applies to the unused potential of migrants in Austria. There would also be a demand at European legal level to ensure access to the labour market for asylum seekers after nine months, but the government is unable to do so. We hold on to structures and extend them. What we Austrians do very well is we have many offices in Brussels, which lobby for nothing to change. The large chambers, the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce, have lobby offices in Brussels so that one can hold on to this compulsory system and no Commissioner comes to the idea of loosening the system. The main association of social security funds has an office in Brussels – I wonder what. They are responsible for Austrian social security, and we finance a small travel destination there. This is the way you think in Austria: We want to preserve the structures, and the others are to change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] With this access, the ÖVP is no different from all the provincial politicians in the federal states who are always saying: yes, those in Vienna, who are to be in Vienna. And now they say in Vienna: But they're supposed to be in Brussels. – Please, work for yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13283	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13304	Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a table on the speaker’s desk, on which there is a boat with refugees and behind it a yacht on the sea, with an arrow showing the inscription “Control Refugee” on the yacht.]] My predecessors of lobbyism in Brussels and aspects of the European Union's budgetary policy have already addressed them. Thank you, Minister, for addressing the abuse. However, I would like to mention: I am very concerned when Mr Krainer says that our Minister of Foreign Affairs has only attended nine out of 31 meetings. I know clubs in which this leads to exclusion if you act so uncooperatively. I also do not know how to be up-to-date about the discussions. You have to question that once. I mean, sometime the other participants get used to the fact that the place is empty. I am very happy to read the “Concernatlas”, he is very interested in me, and I am very surprised that our economic party, which is going into the next election campaign with sustainability, no matter what name, always for this international, global, global competition and for CETA and TTIP, for the free trade agreements, and at the same time, Mr Minister, you say here that climate change and climate change are also important issues. I think, yes, these are very important issues, and we know what is going on in this area and what is going on in this area, what is being carried in vain to lead products from one corner to the other corner of the world for speculation reasons, so that they finally have the right pickerl, so that this finally has the right value and that the men speculators at the trade fairs can cast off the two-digit returns. It surprises me, however, if you have an understanding of a Europe-wide CO2 tax – this one has to come – while avoiding a palm oil and palm fat tax. I remember: Europe is India's second largest palm oil importer and thus one of the largest climate, environmental and habitat destructions. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the economic refugees who are discussing in the context of the asylum debate, with which we have the problems that we have costs, are on the other hand the tax refugees who are dealing with an intelligent corporate tax policy and with investment, so that they do not become taxable and subject to taxes, but rather investments wisely and wisely. Lobbyism has also been addressed, and I can remind you of the employment strategies, Mr. Minister whom you have referred to. I was shocked when I had to read this week that the so successful Agrara Group is spreading not only in China but also in India. It seems that the Eastern European area is already too expensive for the production of substitutes, now you go to the Third World. We know an Indian tea picker has 25 € in the month, but the rent for the straw hut in which she is allowed to sleep is deducted. That is the reality, and if that is the world economy that we are advocating, I say I do not want to worship this world economy. I think the essential thing is that Austria once recognizes that we are also a model and not singing with the lobbyists in this international concert. I remember our founder Frank Stronach, who said: Go to a shopping shop, go shopping, see how many products we still have that have been produced or produced in Austria – only more commercial products, just more trading margins! We are losing one of the most important stages, pre-production, in all areas, not just food. The added value Europe was also mentioned, Mr Krainer mentioned this abuse of agricultural funds, and right now the representatives of the Federal Farmers' Government, the lawyers of the rural area, have proved that they have not yet understood what is going on. Yes, do you still want us to put the farmers' money into the bureaucracy, into an agricultural marketing, into the farming chambers? Do you want to continue to book broadband as agricultural money? If this is the rescue of the rural area, we know why the rural area is so sick. That is quite clear, because it is said something different than done. The voters will eventually decide on this. It is a huge success when ten farms and thus 30 jobs are lost every day in rural areas – and we are discussing a mini-budget balance, about tiny counter-payments in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural area must not be allowed to go so far as to die, it must be prosperated! One has to see that one can get the companies that one can get the farms for regional production, that the families work, that there are strong workers there in strong families for the industry on site, that one can avoid senseless traffic. We have traffic jams in our central rooms, because people have to continue working because they are then a grateful milk cow because they then need a second car because they pay taxes because they pay motor insurance taxes. – These are the facts. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank you. We only need to discuss this in our own country. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Thank you, Madam President, I am at the end of the sentence. [[Rejoicing of the President and the SPÖ.]] It's very crucial: Not to point out to the EU, but to prove for yourself! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13387	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13408	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already had some speeches on the subject, some of them not on the subject. I would just like to say to you, Mr Loacker, before I get to the point: Look at this! There are also intergovernmental agreements with Austrian social security, there are also coordination tasks that the main association in Europe has to perform. So don't make yourself there and say, They're supposed to fry, they don't need an office in Brussels! – There is a person who coordinates, and this is about intergovernmental stories. If you read this through, you may also understand. And We have often discussed your comments on pensions. You want to cut the pensions at the end of the day, that's a fact. So we don't have to discuss this, I think, either. You just have to repeat it, because with your swirl around it, it might sound a little different for some. The European Union as a peace and prosperity project will only work in the future if it is accepted by people and if social concerns, in particular workers in Europe, are highlighted. People want peace, they want to continue education, they want to work, they want to be free to unfold, they want to grow old in health and happiness, and they want to spend their evening in dignity. These needs must be at the heart of the European Union, and the whole must be based on a solidarity social state. If overarching goals have already been discussed today, I believe it is also a matter of making it clear that the European Union's overarching objectives are not only free trade, not only the free play of capital and international corporations, but also a social Europe. And if the EIA had just meant that it would be a dangerous threat and an expression of social romance, I say: I can also live very well with this; I only find it strange that this is rejected. It has already been said in the discussion today that the European Union is facing important change, which has already been addressed with all its consequences. Lack of confidence in democratic institutions and independent media, the upsurge of right-wing populism and extremism, all of which weakens European solidarity. Therefore, the continuation of a lupen-clean policy, as we know it from recent years, in the direction of deregulation and the neoliberal project, in my opinion, is totally wrong. This may win the hearts of the industrial union, but certainly not the hearts of the people. We are concerned with the needs of the people, and when it comes to budgetary policy perspectives, I also expect it to be on issues relating to the immediate living and working situation of the people, for which the appropriate fiscal conditions are created. There are quite a few points, Mr Finanzminister, you have referred to them, which I see in a similar way to what you and whom I believe can be worked on together. It is a shame that, in my opinion, the entire social issue has been far too short in the previous statements, because I believe that Europe will only have a future and work if the social issue is resolved accordingly and is at the heart of all the activities of European policy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say something about the current domestic policy situation. I have a very, very serious concern, and I also articulate this concern in the perception of the interests of workers who are at peace, of decent wages, of jobs and of social security. If individuals are already on the move – I hear it from different sides – which means that the right modernisation is coming in this country now, and they mean social reduction, the twelve-hour day, wage harvesting and the elimination and elimination of participation, then I would warn everyone to think seriously of such steps, because this looks like one is going to go here to room an authoritarian society of the elites with men and women, and that has not deserved this country. [[Abg. Schimanek: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP]] How a party – and also the Austrian People's Party – manages its structures internally is its case. If you make this authoritarian, I have no problem with it. But if someone believes that this would be a model for the Republic, then there will be many, above all the Austrian trade unions, who will prevent this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13456	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13477	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues in the House! As always, but this time very cordially, I welcome the taxpayers of our country, as you, ladies and gentlemen, should fill the gap in the budget after the so-called grandeurs in the EU, after the British leave. That was about €460 million more, and that's exactly what we need to prevent now. Both our Minister for Finance Schelling as well as Foreign Minister Kurz have already said clearly: Not an increase in contributions for Austria, but a cut in expenditure in the EU budget! – And so must it be. I'm sorry the British leave because we're losing an economically sound partner with them. Now it looks as if the countries that rely on state planning, on protectionism and on national and international redistribution have the threatened majority. Therefore, it is threatening because the poor economies have the majority in the ECB and in the other important EU bodies and can simply match the net payers like Austria. This has to change urgently. Those who pay and who, above all, are also liable for everything, must have the saying and not vice versa! State planning, redistribution and protectionism have never brought prosperity – on the contrary! History shows that it was always centralism, the too strong state, actually socialism, which made people poor, even though it was probably very well meant for people. There is a redistribution and redistribution, until at the end there is nothing left to distribute. On the other hand, it was always the market economy that brought prosperity to people. In particular, from this point of view, I will miss the British because they are a reasonable voice for competition and for the market economy and thus against the exorbitant debt making, against the Transfer Union, where both the Club Med and Austria finance large-scale banks. I have just read an interesting interview with Mathias Döpfner, which is the head of the Axel Springer Group, one of the largest media companies in the world. He said he bets that Britain will be better in three to five years than the EU. He therefore believes this because the British can now rid their economy of the paralysing European bureaucracy and re-market economy, while the EU becomes a transfer union with high taxes and low growth. To create stereotypes here: I do not think that French etatism is being rolled out slowly, but certainly with German ferocity, across the EU, is very attractive, and we have to counter it. The EU needs competitive structures and must stop manufacturing small-spirited detailed regulations for entrepreneurs and citizens. We do not need to lay down rules on vacuum cleaner watt strength or on the capacity of toilet sinks, but we need an EU that effectively protects the external borders and brings our internal market to fruition. The Austrian taxpayers make enough contributions, now it is up to the EU itself to tighten the belt and finally to take up reforms. The EU politicians and officials may say that this is not happening, but how it is – and very well, ladies and gentlemen – our entrepreneurs show us every day. I have often spoken here in the House about my time in the private sector, but I always like to talk about life in the unprotected area. I have worked in the automotive industry for twelve years, where there is probably the sharpest competition. Every year you have to produce more cost-effectively by 2 to 3 percent, otherwise the order is gone. And if you have to be more cost-effective each year, you have to get better, that is, more efficient, slimmer and more creative – everyone in the private sector knows that. It may not be possible to imagine this in the protected area, because in the EU and in the state it is often reversed, there is more money spent each year and debt is still being financed. In the protected area and in the non-protected area, there are totally contrary ways of thinking and action, and that is why Brexit must now be a wake-up call for the EU. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: The technocrats, who are at work today, should never forget: The concept of European founding fathers was not one of harmonisation, regulation and bureaucracy, no, it was a great concept of democracy, human rights, peace and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13544	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13566	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! ==References====External links== In May 2017, the European Union adopted a common position on tax policy in the European Union. For common tax laws, the Federal Chancellor would also be willing to surrender power to Brussels. That is, according to the Federal Chancellor, the right way in the long term, perhaps in the medium term. – But the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is extremely wrong. A task of national tax autonomy would certainly be the wrong way. It seems that the Federal Chancellor did not have the Minister of Finance's address to the Council of Ministers on 22 February. The report of the Minister of Finance on the annual work programme of the Commission and the Council is still being read on February 2017 on the ECOFIN Council. According to the Minister of Finance, losses from VAT carousel fraud amount to between € 50 and 170 billion per year across the EU. The solution to VAT carousel fraud is the introduction of a comprehensive reverse charge system, i.e. the reversal of turnover tax debt between companies. This would mean that the turnover tax between companies no longer has to be paid, so that VAT fraud would no longer be possible. The FPÖ has been demanding this for many years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The EU Commission is very opposed to the reverse challenge system, but due to a political compromise it was forced to present a proposal for a directive. This temporary proposal for a Directive on the introduction of the reverse-charge system provides for two possibilities, each of which must be cumulatively fulfilled. For the first possibility, the following criteria or conditions must be met: The VAT gap of the Member State concerned must be at least 5 per cent higher than the median value of the Community VAT gap. Austria is thank God below, so we cannot make use of the first possibility. But also with regard to the second condition – the share of carousel fraud in the entire VAT gap in the Member State is more than 25 percent – we thank God in Austria below. And the last condition: The Member State must find that other countermeasures are not sufficient to combat carousel fraud. According to these three criteria, Austria could not fight against VAT fraud because, according to the motto, fraud in Austria is still within the scope of the EU division: A little bit of VAT fraud is okay. The second possibility is that the Member State, for example Austria, has a common border with a Member State which may apply the general reversal of the VAT debt. For example: If the Czech Republic were to introduce this system, Austria would have to prove that the application of this system in the Czech Republic poses a serious risk of shifting VAT fraud to the country. Finally, Austria should prove that other countermeasures are not sufficient. This evidence would also be impossible. In addition, there is a safety guard clause. We all agree that VAT fraud must be combated, but the EU Commission is presenting a proposal for a directive which makes it virtually impossible for Member States to introduce this anti-fraud measure. A particular opponent of this reverse challenge system is the French Commissioner Moscovici. France is alleged to grant hidden aid to the French automotive industry by means of this VAT system, and in the event of a reversal of VAT debt, this hidden aid would no longer be possible. This French Commissioner, by the way, is from the Socialist Party of PS, which belongs to a joint political group with the Chancellor Party SPÖ in the European Parliament. Federal Chancellor! Ask your colleagues in the Group in Brussels why it is against the fight against VAT fraud before you vote in favour of a common tax policy. At least this is about 170 billion € tax default a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13642	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13663	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! On one point I agree with colleagues that: Brexit offers a great opportunity for Europe – yes, I see it that way – a a great opportunity for fundamental reforms. But if I look at the current debate, it will focus above all on one point, namely the net contributions, and that has always been the case. The sharpest exponent for the net payer debate came from Great Britain, it was Margaret Thatcher, she at that time meant: I want my money back! But Britain is now leaving the European Union, and now the role of Britain is being taken over by the other net payers, and they are saying – this has been clearly expressed here – by the representatives of the EIA, but also by you, Minister of Finance: No, we will not fill this gap created by the Brexit on the contribution side with higher contributions. I consider this argumentation pattern to be completely fatal and not suitable to lead to reforms of the EU budget in Europe, because the benefits from the EU budget are not only due to the net position, there is also indirect benefit, there is something like European added value. This has been attracted several times, but it is probably necessary to draw the consequences. And those who are only discussing in the category of this Juste return, this net contributor position, are looking at the necessary reforms and the historical opportunity for these reforms, which the Brexit in fact offers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It offers it in two ways: on the one hand, to increase European added value, indeed, with a focus on sustainability, social and environmental sustainability, on the other, but also on the extension of the EU budget in relation to the maintenance and stabilisation of the European Economic and Monetary Union. Macron has taken up a proposal from the European Council, namely the Eurozone budget. We also need to discuss this, and we need to note that there is no monetary union worldwide with a common budget of one percent of gross national income. All economists agree: That won't be enough. The US, also a currency zone, has a common budget in the order of well over 20 percent. We will also have to discuss about and about the consequences of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I am going to have to discuss the expenditure and revenue structures and their reforms – as I am very much with you, Minister of Finance, because if I look at the current budget, it is not appropriate to deal with the challenges we face. It is not even appropriate to achieve the EU 2020 targets. Moreover, we have already strongly criticised this in the decision-making of the medium-term financial framework 2014 to 2020. And there are a number of deficits on the expenditure side. They begin with the common agricultural policy. In this respect, it has already been mentioned that over-dimensioned support to the large agricultural industry is without ecological orientation. Only a small part is used for organic production in rural areas, for small farmers. However, it goes further on through the Structural and Cohesion Funds, which are too strongly geared to traditional infrastructure policies and are essentially disadvantaged by poorer countries in the European Union. The F&E share is too low. Yes, and we are doing too little for social matters and, above all, for employment. The unemployment rate in Europe is still on average unbearable, even scandalous in the southern states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is also about reforming the own resources structure, if we want to say that we want to take more account of sustainability. You, Mr Finanzminister, also mentioned this and mentioned some taxes. I thank you for this. Bar. Yes, I am also in favour of setting the own resources on an ecological basis. You have addressed a CO2 tax – I am good at that, but I am also in favour of a CO2-based ticket. It is also about thinking about the financial transaction tax – you have also attracted them, Minister of Finance. However, other taxes are missing in this context: common European property taxes, for example, or a common corporate tax base. This would be a very, very important step towards the end of the tax dumping.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13726	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13741	Yeah, I'll do it right away. – The Brexit thus offers a fundamental opportunity. Let's use these! The EU can urgently need a renewal project. It is a question of European added value and of putting the common foreign and security policy before the divider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13768	Next, Mr. Klubobmann speaks to Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13790	Mr President. Minister! Love Ladies and gentlemen, as taxpayers today, you have been addressed as European citizens. We are negotiating the prospects of the European Union's budgetary policy – an important issue because it is a topic for the future: Europe is the place where we live and where we will live in the future and want to live as far as I am concerned. I therefore think it is very important, Minister, that we come to a sustainable financing structure for Europe. Europe is not well placed financially. And somehow, I have the feeling that this is not a great priority, because, of course, the vision for commonness in Europe is missing, because there is a lack of commitment that Europe is important in these days, in these years and for the decades that come, but on the contrary, it is being tried to win the vote with the suffocation of the European idea. At the moment, this great idea of European commonness is sinking in the swamp of national electoral tactics. This is, of course, a tragedy, and we must resist it at all levels, and so on the back of the finances for this common Europe. We can only move on to Europe if we can fill up the tank as well. Otherwise, it's like a car that's not refuelled: You won't get off the spot. Of course, we have to release resources, financial resources. That means that we also need to change the current tank logic. Of course, we also need to change the way we are currently taking the course. That is to say, the structure of current funding and expenditure needs to be changed – all under the title and vision that Europe is our future, that commonness is our priority, that it represents the opportunities for our quality of life, for our prosperity, for our peace. What does it have to do? – First of all: Confession of Europe as an area of rule of law, as an area of the social-ecological market economy. Secondly, no bans on thinking! Go into the discussion for future models! We want to take further steps towards a Republic of Europe in which the Sovereign is the people. Citizens should have the last word here. That means, of course, we also need a strengthened Parliament, a common government. We also need a commitment – and then financial means – to a common foreign and security policy. The clear confession of NEOS: We need a European army that we are gradually building. And we should also make Austria's pressure on these important topics. I am pleased that – yet not quite determined, but half determined – the liberals are slowly approaching this issue. [[Abg. Strache: No, we stand on neutrality, Mr Strolz, in contrast to you!]] I am pleased that the liberals are gradually opening up on this issue. [[Abg. We will not sacrifice our neutrality on the altar of the European Union!]] I am pleased that Mr Heinz-Christian Strachesich has already known in statements about this, even though he still had to row back. [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] [[Abg. That's a nonsense! You should not sacrifice Austrian neutrality on the altar of the European Union!]] But there's always a chance for a second time, Mr. Strache. [[Call the FPÖ: I'm not so sure with you!]] – Of course, I hope that the ÖVP will also devote itself to this. [[Abg. Strache: Whether you're a second chance..., I'm in doubt!]] In order to set aside funds, for example, we can go back to structural funding, because there are large question marks. For example, during the period 2007 to 2013, the Upper Bavaria area received €886 million from structural funds. However, the structural funds are in favour of supporting weak regions. However, with its gross domestic product per capita, Upper Bavaria is 137.9% higher than the EU average. So you don't have to heat in there. You can use these funds differently, you can use them better. We also want to change in agriculture. We say we want modern, innovative agriculture. Of course, we also want a commitment to landscape care. We must, however, get out of this subsidy culture, which is currently in place and which often also has devastating effects. We need an investment union, not a subsidy union! That's the logic of our NEOS. Of course, we want to add additional resources in future areas so that they can be developed, but we want to deduct funds in other areas. And we want absolute transparency. With these steps, I believe, we are getting closer to the idea of a common Europe in many areas, in the essential areas very good steps. That's the goal. I'm asking for support!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13893	Now comes Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13914	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has many problems. We are concerned about the high level of unemployment! As a keyword, I call youth unemployment: Especially in the southern states, more than 40 percent of young people have no job, no chance of actively shaping their future. Many are already talking about the lost generation – an expression that, from my point of view, is abominable and under the impression of each one of us, we must all be required to do everything so that our young people have a chance to actively shape their lives, enter the professional process and have a life planning. However, we have also experienced the banking crisis, economic problems, structural problems in the south, and we have seen that the gap between the poor and the rich has varied to an extent that we could not imagine. On the one hand, even in Austria, people who do not know what to live of, older people who ask themselves the question at the end of the month, especially in winter: Should I be hot or eat?, and on the other hand, there are billionaires, multibillionaires, people who have accumulated a wealth that is unimaginable. And the greed has driven all of this forward. Ladies and gentlemen! There must be no wonder that the people of Great Britain have said: It's enough for us! We pay €10 billion in this institution and we do not feel that the problems that can be solved to all of us that move us can be solved. The problems of the past – caused by the wave of migration – continue to rise to the solution, and the problems of the future – as a result of digitization and in the form of a wave of migration – are probably even greater than what we have experienced so far. The European Union is called upon to find solutions. I also see the Brexit as an opportunity to reinvent the European Union, to rethink, to involve the people, to transform the EU from a construction that operates beyond people to a movement that affects the people in which people feel that there is problem-solving competence here. Only if the European Union manages to move people back, to inspire people will it have a future. If, as before, some of them are broadcast on television: We know how it goes, and you have to do that!, then Brexit will only be the first step in a long chain of withdrawals. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union lacks €10 billion in the budget. It would be easy to say now: Well, let others stand up for it! We have heard a wide variety of figures today, from 400 million to 1.3 billion euros. We too believe that it would be the wrong step to burden once again those countries that already pay a lot, the net payers. The European Union, first and foremost our representatives, are invited to reform the structure, to shape the vision of rethinking the European Union. As the French President Macron suggests, one could now build a fiscal union with a Eurozone Finance Minister, with a Eurozone budget and with a financial sovereignty, which is the way we do not want to go. That's the way we all have to face. This is not in the sense of the EU citizens! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Because the French President is demanding this, I think – especially since France has a 35-hour week and the people there are retired at 62 years of age – he is probably already asking the question: How can I open a new source of money? As an investment banker of Rothschild, he is used to thinking about new structures, how to get money from other people. And probably this Fiscal Union would be there to give France more resources. In this sense: Much change is required if the European Union is to have a future that will also be borne by people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13974	Mr Franz has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13998	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear visitors! When talking about Europe and even about as dry materials as fiscal policy, it is always good to take a look back at the history of Europe: How did Europe come to be? If we go all the way back, then it is an irony of history and an irony of fate: The Princess of Europe was of Phoenician origin, so it came from where Syria is located today – and it is the name-giver of Europe. If we are now considering what problems we are discussing today and what problems we have to deal with, then this is a certain ironic basis on which we can perhaps think separately. If we are talking about culture at all, then we must note that culture, if you are honest, has a lot to do with finances. Finance not only means I give you money and you give me a good, but it is always about how the structure of the financial economy is built. We know such terms as the ban on interest rates. This has been the case in Europe: No interest was allowed. – Today is the Interest of the servitude instrument: Today's saver is the poverty shrew of Europe. We all know that. That means we have to think carefully: What culture has Europe created at all? And when we think about culture, we inevitably come to the concept of Europe's guiding culture. And if we take Europe's leading culture and think about it, we must say quite clearly: The central culture of Europe comes from the Enlightenment, it comes from Christianity and it comes from Roman law and from the reason building of the ancient Greeks. What we do not find in Europe's leading culture is what we now find in mass migration, namely Islamism, Muslim thought, Muslim world view. This is simply not part of Europe. This has to be questioned, because this is what Europe is asking the big questions that we are dealing with now and which we have to answer. Ladies and gentlemen! We must, both in financial policy and in the budgetary policy of Europe, already return to these values, all of us on our own. We cannot create any Europe by constructing some pan-European common fiscal policy, where we want to create everything in a pot, perhaps a social common Europe, as the left-wings propose, where one pays and the other cash. These are all – forgive the expression! – crazy thoughts. They lead us into the abyss. That's what we need to fight. If we are honest – and I believe that financial policy, especially financial policy, cannot happen without honest facts and facts – then we must return to the cultural concepts ourselves. We have to consider: What does Europe matter? What do we care about ourselves? And how do we deal with all these problems of today? And if we now hear the voices from France that together with Mrs Merkel we want to press more or less on the obviously culturally troubled eye, then we all have to get up together when we are honest with ourselves and say: No, there should not be a common Europe of the Fiscal Union! What is not a statement against Europe! I am for Europe – but I am for a Europe of the nations, for a Europe of the Fatherlands, for a Europe of our own budget policies, for a Europe of our own peoples and peoples, each of which is sovereignly superior to what they do and what they do, how they solve their own economic problems and how they can bring up their own economies again. This must be the approach – not a centralist Europe in which the funds are pushed around, in which we then have disastrous conditions like in Greece or in other countries of Europe, but we all have to take our noses and say: Well, we want to go back – back to where we come from, namely from the Fatherlands, from the nations, from the individual peoples of Europe. We must strengthen our own strengths – and the strength lies in the identity of the respective state and nation. This is my call to you and to all of Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14062	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:17:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14083	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14286	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform Mr Magistrate. Mr Steinhauser asked the Justice Committee to report to the Court on the application 49/A concerning a federal law to which the General Civil Code is amended, a period of up to 27. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Mr Strolz, Member of Parliament, has requested that the Committee on Justice report on amendment 498/A by Dr Scherak, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code, be limited to 16. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. As already announced at the beginning of today's meeting, according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure make a statement on the situation of the Federal Government. This declaration will be negotiated in accordance with parliamentary practice and after consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference as a new item on agenda 1. The additional items on the agenda will be renumbered accordingly. A new agenda has already been distributed in the hall. Furthermore, a debate on this declaration has been agreed between the members of the Presidential Conference. The desire for this is already present. In addition, it is envisaged to adjust the day-block time of the new agenda, i.e. from 7 to 8 “Vienna hours”. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14334	It is proposed that the debate on new points 4 and 5 as well as 10 to 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14360	As a result of the supplementary agenda, consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and Team Stronach each 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 22 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking times I have presented. Who agrees with this proposal? – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:21:16]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Situation of the Federal Government”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14404	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following the declaration by the Federal Chancellor, a debate will be held within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the present duly supported request. I now give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany the floor for his statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14434	Mr President. Dear representatives of the House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the TV gallery and in front of the TV screens! In fact, the last few days were politically moving: We have experienced that Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner has relinquished his function. He has also relinquished his role as chairman of the ÖVP. I have to say: This is a step for which I personally understand, which I naturally respect. I would also like to use the opportunity at this point to wish the divorcing vice chancellor much success in his further life course. I have met him as a decent, fair and upright negotiating partner, who is always true to his commitments, as far as possible. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS, Team Stronach and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This step by Reinhold Mitterlehner has been accompanied by a follow-up discussion in the ÖVP, and you probably have no idea just as much as we have that last Friday the new ÖVP-Obmann has declared the coalition to be finished in front of running TV cameras. It is the good right of the ÖVP that it no longer wants to continue this cooperation, and of course this is also to take note of us. But what's my job now is clear: When we talk about how we will shape the next weeks and months, we need to be aware that the most important thing we have to achieve together is to avoid a phase of downtime and to ensure that work in the interests of the Austrian women is continued here consistently. This continuation of cooperation is one of which I would like to say from our side, from the Social Democratic side of this House: Our hand is stretched out, and I have also publicly formulated this, saying that we would continue this partnership on the basis of the government programme and beyond, and consider it useful. We have found that this offer has not been accepted by Sebastian Kurz, and we have now made a joint effort to search for a new election date. For us, however, this means that if we want to avoid a phase of downtime, we need to be able to act and ensure that the projects that have been started come to a good result. My firm conviction is that, in this context, it is necessary that those who have the power and the competence to help the necessary political initiatives to break through, too, are sitting at the table. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] In the past, we have set up a government programme – signed by all the Federal Ministers, with a clear commitment also to implementation – which, in my view, can be a suitable basis, but this basis is only given crediblely, though the heads, the party chairmen, in the coalition take quite clearly responsibility for it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Deputies Mückstein and Willi.]] Taking responsibility means taking up and accepting the appropriate positions. If that is not the case, then I ask you to understand that, if the coalition is announced and then the talk is that we should continue to work, we must make it difficult to see it differently from that, that, in the light of the experience of the past twelve months, this is unfortunately not a taxable offer from our point of view, that this is quite an unbelievable offer, and that we therefore think that if we do not perceive this responsibility, then the credibility is lacking in order to continue this consistent course in the Federal Government. I have experienced that we have negotiated with a vice chancellor – in the usual coalition routine this takes place relatively regularly under four eyes, under eight eyes, under twelve eyes – whereby agreements have been made, which unfortunately have not always been implemented, because, as we have seen, those who make the decisions have not been sitting at the table with us. This is a state that we want to avoid now with certainty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I would add that I highly value Wolfgang Brandstetter as Minister of Justice, I think he is an exceptionally competent Minister of Justice. There is also no slightest doubt about his personal integrity. But this is not about whether you personally appreciate someone or not, but about who you can do something with. I am of the opinion that we now have the fastest to overcome this phase, consisting of posts, poker and party politics, because we have a responsibility for our country, and I am convinced that we are not playing with Austria, and I also believe that responsibility means taking over them. Not only if the sun shines, but also if it is not enough for one to have a personal advantage. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Since, of course, cooperation in the Federal Government is clearly difficult on this basis, I would like to maintain the following: The Federal Government will fully fulfil its constitutional obligations by the election day, which is completely out of dispute. This also means, in particular, that we are fully aware of our European commitments. From my point of view, it is now a matter of ensuring stability in the country in an ordinary, quiet phase of further work and trying to prevent disorder that might even lead to chaos. But I can also put it this way: What I have just carried out is an offer to the political decision-makers to continue moving political decisions into Parliament, not to present government documents here, but to rely consistently on parliamentary work, involving not only the parliamentary groups but also the party chairmen. From my point of view, there is a very, very good basis with the government programme, and we will bring this point to point here in the House. The Members of this House are familiar with these initiatives, and they have all come to know them in the form of a motion for a resolution, at least those from the coalition. I am convinced that we can work very well here and work together on a number of points. We must not forget that there are four months at our disposal, and I think that the Austrians would not understand it at all if we were to take responsibility and accept four months' standstill. This, of course, also means from my point of view that the question of who is taking up the position of Vice-Cancellor in the government has become a subordinate, for we will do the tasks properly. I'm going to be Wolfgang, of course. Brandstetter is happy to accept, just as the proposal to promote State Secretary Mahrer to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but it is clear that now a phase of a living parliamentaryism, a dispute for the best ideas will begin, in the consciousness and in an attempt to implement the politically necessary projects here. I am concerned with these projects: We have seen in the past that the measures are beginning to grasp that Austria has come into a positive development. When I kept my first statement of government here a year ago, the general assessment was that unemployment will continue to rise and that economic growth in Austria will continue to follow the European average. We see today that we have a job dynamics that is better than in almost all other European countries. We see today that for the first time in six years we have been faced with a declining unemployment, that a large number of measures are working, that the economy is again confident, that investment is increasing, that incomes – and that is very important – have risen again and that economic growth is beneficial to all Austrians. I believe that we should follow this up. And if we deal with the question of what we have to implement from the government programme, or in what form we are necessarily going to expand this together in this House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. First of all, we are talking about seeing unemployment falling, and especially among the young, we have a very positive development. However, we all have to note that, in particular in the segment of older workers, people over 50, unemployment is, unfortunately, increasing significantly. As a result, a decisive emphasis is on the consistent fight against unemployment among older people. We will submit a corresponding proposal to guarantee 20 000 additional jobs and jobs in this area; the Ministry of Social Affairs will work on this initiative in a lead. We set an initiative on the minimum wage of 300 000 people in Austria – an initiative that I would also like to put on top of the priority list. As far as the fight against tax avoidance is concerned, we have put forward a proposal that will help us to exploit national areas of activity to combat tax evasion, illegal tax avoidance, which is mainly operated by large international companies in Austria. I would like to mention another point where I hope that the powers conferred on the parties will be sufficient to vote on this almost century project, namely the project of state reform. In Austria, we have the situation that we have a much too complex state world. If we are talking about reforms in our country, we are now doing this consistently, unifying economic law, making life easier for Austrians, probably saving hundreds of millions of euros, which we can then consistently invest in our education and health system! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Auer and Mr Lopatka on the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have invited the party presidents of all the parliamentary parties today to discuss the way forward together. We are now entering a new phase of cooperation, and from my point of view, there are four points that we should try to clarify this afternoon. The first is: How do we proceed with the implementation of the initiatives I mentioned? – There will be more from your side, of course, this is not a one-way road, there we will discuss together. Secondly, we must break our heads about when the exact election date will be. We have largely reached an agreement, there is so to speak little room for decision, but we should make it clear. Thirdly, we should also look at how we can make the most of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. I think it is important that we tell the Austrians what has really happened here – Enlightenment is needed here, transparency is the command of the hour if you want to do so. I am convinced that if we adapt the research plan accordingly, we can still make very valuable work possible. And for me, there is a fourth point that should shape our cooperation: If we are now thinking together about initiatives for the next four months, then we should do so in the awareness of careful handling of taxpayers and agree that we should not allow excessive and even sustainable burden on future government budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! The efforts of the Federal Government will be to advance cooperation in a successful way. We'll do it the way I described it to you. I am already looking forward to working with the House in this new, active form, and I am convinced that we have good four months ahead of us in the interests of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14607	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, followed your statement today, Mr Chancellor, with great interest, and I must say that this standstill, this chaos, of course, has not only occurred last week, but that it is a permanent state in this government, which has not changed by your occupation in the SPÖ and your establishment as chancellors. We could just as well activate the old Faymann-Plakat from 2008 with the saying “Disputed in a generous way” and put your counterfei next to it. You have to hold on to that too. Of course, one has the impression that the two government parties were only more concerned with tactical games at the expense of the Austrian population. I say quite openly: This is a sad and sad spectacle that is being played here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This red and black government – all its leaders – has in recent years left a sniper pile in the truest sense of the word through its irresponsible action in Austria, and both government parties are responsible for this in the coming elections. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] That must be said quite openly, because who, in order to correct the key data, has massively damaged the economic location of Austria? – This has been this government in the last ten years. The economic location has suffered massive damage: In Austria we have a maximum tax burden, a tax rate of more than 45 percent, which sells many businesses, resulting in unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Creating at the same time It is true that the debt burden on the Austrian population is constantly increasing by means of maximum tax revenue. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's also wrong!]] Poverty is growing dramatically, and unemployment too. That's a fact. More and more people are affected by poverty. Today, one and a half million people live on the poverty line – especially pensioners and older people who have been served by you with an almsen hundred, instead of getting a real inflation adjustment. Furthermore, there is a failure at all corners and ends: a failure due to an irresponsible mass immigration policy – until then that one was not prepared to secure and control the borders – and a failure in integration. It's going on and it's cool. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Of course, these days are not easy for you, and your first year as Federal Chancellor you must have thought differently, but perhaps it was your last year as Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The cards are remixed in a few months, and who knows what it looks like after the elections. It is good and right that the Austrian people are talking quickly about democratic elections and can make a decision on whether these two parties are at all appropriate in the future. [[pointing towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] Should they have the opportunity, perhaps, to do another project in which they then continue the dispute? – I say: No, no, no, [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, certainly have a different idea when you take office a year ago, but you can see just how quickly the aura of an artificially depicted wuzzis or Messiah can fade out and how quickly the anthems of praise are shut down. Perhaps this should also be remembered by my colleague, Mr Kurz, sometime: A hollow facade can sometimes be very, very short-lived. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pilz and Mr Pirklhuber.]] This is something you can often see in the production, which is lived there – especially by the two protagonists core and short. There was also the sage: 95 percent are staging! – The remaining 5 percent were disputed, and in the end we experienced 0 percent implementation. There's no similarity between them. If you now announce a free play of the forces, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is, of course, to be welcomed in the sense of a living parliamentaryism; but the SPÖ and ÖVP representatives have handled this completely differently until now. Parliament has, as it were, come to a vote machine, because in recent years all the opposition proposals have simply been left behind, the opposition has been left in the committees, they have not even been put to the vote, they have not been at all prepared to respond to opposition proposals. Overall, the failure of this government is, of course, dramatic, because it shows that a dramatic damage to the Austrian population has also occurred. In reality, the new elections should have taken place much, much earlier. We have seen since 2013 – since the start of this government – that it was neither capable nor willing to work really seriously and in the interests of the Austrian population and to implement the right and necessary things. Let's not do anything! Core and short, these are just the two sides of a wrong coin or medal. In 2015, Christian Kern, as the head of the ÖBB, had the illegal immigrants who stormed our border illegally chauffed through Austria and fired it. The ÖVP was equally active in supporting Mrs Merkel's totally disastrous and irresponsible welcome and invitation policy at that time, even in short terms as a minister. One was not willing to secure one's own borders, and one was not willing to assume responsibility for the population. Since then, of course, I have always been, of course, a phantom in the government, a phantom in the Council of Ministers, in which all decisions have been taken unanimously. So if you're pretending to be fresh out of the egg today, that's not the case. In reality, since his youth he has been an instrumentaryist who has grown up and developed from the ÖVP. If I have not been correctly quoted “in the center” of the ORF, I ask to perhaps correct the entire quote series. I didn't blame him for being a drop-off, that happens to many, that's not a problem, but he's not just a drop-out, he hasn't learned a job and never worked in the private sector. This is, of course, something to talk about when one speaks of novelty and wants to overcome an old system, because: What exactly is the old system?! – It means red and black appliances that have never worked in the private sector, are loud theorists, and usually have practically never been successful, and then in the apparatus, have grown up in these structures. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] That's it: you're now trying to resell things that are an old hat. As early as 1995, Schüssel has documented “THE NEW ÖVP”. Now you come back with the same filth, just stay without mesh. These are the mentors who stand behind, from bowl to pröll on one side and on the other side, at SPÖ, Gusenbauer. These are the representatives and mentors of an old system who have put up new cardboard comrades. [[Abg. Kogler: Boah!]] In fact, that's exactly the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Kogler.]] Of course, both parties are significantly involved in the catastrophic development in all areas, such as schinasylantum. The Minister of Integration is particularly responsible for the fact that in Austria we have to experience a dramatic failure in the area of integration, that there are irresponsible developments of parallel and counterpart societies and that political Islam is taking more and more place in Austria. They have been actively involved in the approvals of Islamic kindergartens and also in tax promotions, and to date the financing of dubious associations has been possible and has not been abolished. You're responsible. Many citizens are rightly outraged, many citizens are getting involved in a development that really pushes their own people to the brink. I therefore say quite consciously: Let us exchange these government politicians before they have completely exchanged the Austrian population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you did not come to work, because you were primarily engaged in party-internal intrigues, which is almost the king's discipline of the ÖVP, in which in the last ten years – or even longer – countless farmers with an average life span of two and a half years have been used. Since my occupation, I think you've been the sixth officer to be used. When intrigued, the People's Party has always been world champions, regardless of whether old or whatever. Now you have shown that you are not willing to assume responsibility as Vice Chancellor. This must be respected and accepted, not a question, which is also the decision of the ÖVP, but the picture is disastrous. There's a phantom running around, which only speaks when it's learned and studied something externally thanks to consultants, but if it's about taking on responsibility or taking a position on other questions, it's a disappearance bus, then it looks like you're not going to be the public. Of course, it is assumed that the knife will be used even now if the miracle boy will not prove to be so wonderful. [[Abg. Jarolim: Pattern Boy!]] Mr Kern's paint is gone after 12 months, and, I believe you, Mr Kurz, it will not take you 12 months, I can promise you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The difference between the government parties and us is very important: One wants and deals with their own party, the other are permanently focused on self-employment – even in their whole activity – who want to reform their own party. I say: Finally, we want to lead Austria into the right future and ensure the necessary implementation. This is our claim, and today we are the stable, the credible, the reliable and the continuous factor. In reality, we are experiencing a kind of proxy war that I have described. I therefore say: Whether short or core, both are in many areas staging bubbles. At the time of Kern's accession, a new style was promised, one has heard that there is a need to turn away the loss of power and the loss of power. The opposite is the case! We have experienced a strengthening of this. I say that the two will not make the better future visible to our country. On the contrary! The two bear an essential responsibility for our being in the mudlock today. That's why the Freedom Party needs it. This also becomes more and more people aware that only the Freedom Party can change this obsolete old system, and that it can only come to a systematic with us, that one will finally be ready to make the necessary free-lance implementations in the interests of the Austrians and not only to give empty promises shortly before a choice, as is the case now.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14784	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14805	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners and spectators! Reinhold Mitterlehner, Vice Chancellor, Minister of Economic Affairs and Chief of the ÖVP, has mentioned a lot of things in his resignation speech, and I can understand it humanly that he has noticed a lot of things that he has then openly addressed in the speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] He's been talking about a lot of things that stimulates thinking. I do not want to be measured, but I think that for everyone, even for myself, there was a little bit in it, which is why people sat down and thought afterwards. [[Abg. Kickl: And what was the result?]] I must honestly say that, if I were ÖVP-Mandatar, I would have had to think for a very long time after this speech, because most of it was addressed to his own party – the processes there and the foot chains that were often laid on him. [[Abg. Kickl: How was Faymann?- Oh, my God!]] Reinhold Mitterlehner spoke of mosaic stones – also coming from the media landscape – that gave the rash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I do not find the term mosaic stone uninteresting in so far as the decision – decision is perhaps the wrong expression – to not want to be the refusal of the designed ÖVP-Obmann to become vice chancellor, for me is also such a mosaic stone. You wonder why you do not want to accept the third highest office that this Republic has to grant, although you actually think you have concepts to lead the country – or do you doubt it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Is one afraid that after five months of election, when you're a vice chancellor, you'll be so damaged that nothing goes at all? I cannot understand this, but it is an interesting mosaic in this entire political landscape. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If one is put before the choice to vote or work, then I would always choose to work, even if sometimes compromises come out, even if some compromises may not be as great as expected. I think, however, that it is worth it to our country that we are moving forward a little bit, and whether it is just a compromise that you have made with dissidents of another party, because you don't have the absolute majority yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] For us, working or choosing also to think about work. The Federal Chancellor's Plan A was a contention of how to challenge the next decade for our country in such a way that, despite the difficult times, Austria can benefit from its future opportunities well and optimally. After difficult negotiations, this Plan A has become a government programme which, by the way, all ministers have signed, and that this should be the way to continue in this legislative period – they have become known. This is what can be summarized under the concept of responsibility, because responsibility for a country means to lead, think, discuss and also implement. Responsibility also means taking responsibility for changes, namely that there are jobs in this country, that there is a rise, that unemployment is falling, and that the people who fear unemployment, the people who are most affected by long-term unemployment, or also the young people in our society who do not always know whether they get a job, future opportunities and hope after their training. This also means creating an education system that is future-oriented and modern, which also covers the various interests and situations of the present. That also means finally valorizing the study grant that our students do not make the social selection, namely that only the parent's wallet decides whether they can study or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] But that also means that those who have opted for the path of teaching should also have better opportunities in the future when they have completed the teaching. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Responsibility also means that, if the Austrian National Council, this Parliament, has rightly decided to investigate dubious operations on the purchase of combat aircraft, this investigation will not, on the first opportunity, return to the dynamite by a re-election request. The Committee of Inquiry should be able to work at least a minimum of time, because this information is also extremely important for psycho-hygiene and political hygiene in that country. Taking responsibility for our country also means – and I say quite openly – Austria not only bad to say, because Austria is actually a country that is not so bad at all, as well as looking at the fact that political egomania does not end up making the good positions and the good reputation of Austria poor. – In all these considerations I would always choose to work and not to choose. But I also have to say that if it is no longer possible, if one simply no longer wants, the Austrian Social Democracy is also the party that can be proud of the voters. We can say: What we have done and what we want to do for the country is so good that we are always sure that the voters will also follow our path.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14900	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14922	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! This is obviously the formal end of this red and black coalition, and Parliament is on the move. I believe that with some amazement many people in Austria have looked at these incidents of the past weeks and months and look at them, because for them this speed, this sequence and also this stylisticity, which is currently characteristic of Austrian domestic policy, is simply not comprehensible. These are people who ask themselves daily how they get through at the end of the month with their money, who ask each day whether at last the conditions and quality in the school, in the kindergarten will improve. These are many women who are wondering if the promise of a minimum statutory wage will come true now, who are wondering whether they will get a better chance in their lives now. These are many young people at the university, these are the students who have just made the central matura and now have the concern that they may not get a place to study, those are many people who might be looking for an apartment. All these concerns and fears are, I think, come under the wheels in the last few weeks and months, with a lot of party tactics, with a lot of political play, with confusion with what you should actually do and do in a federal government, and in a parliament, and a confusion with a playing field, with power and positions, with mutual anger, hacking and wading – I say this in this directness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many people also no longer understand the content style that has been shown there, and I think that this is essential for future coalitions. I am proud of our projects in the countries and that there really is a different style. I can't imagine that in Vorarlberg, in Tirol, in Salzburg or also in Carinthia, there would have been similar mutual accusations over months, which ultimately lead to such terms that one can no longer, even personally, each other. This is deeply unfortunate because we are actually employees of the population and are paid for this work – and not for these permanent disputes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let's recapitulate the last months: It was, I believe, clear with a clear eye that there was a certain group in the ÖVP that had resisted for so long in many issues of content until they failed. I now take the national minimum guarantee as an example, the last social network that the poorest in this country simply need. It was quite obvious that there was no interest in a common solution. I now mention an example, which shows how this has an effect in reality: In Burgenland there are original 11 families, now equipped with this lid, who now lose a total of €30 000. These are the poorest of the poor, and on their back these disputes were carried out. It has not been possible to maintain a social system throughout Austria. You're back in federal solutions. This was in particular the result of the ignition – again and again, when a solution was visible, to turn back. This Zündlerei – I have to name it that way – has a few names: It was Klubobmann Lopatka, who played content in many of these questions – that was so. It was above all also Minister of the Interior Sobotka, who has provoked with many very, very, very, very sportish, ironic and ungood remarks, and has poisoned the coalition climate for weeks and months. [[Abg. Kogler: Explosive Master!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I think today is also a day when one can describe one's perception a little, and that was my perception – not only mine, but all those who have negotiated social assistance in this area have said: It was just like that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior Sobotka has spent many weeks and months of this provoking, and this game has been so enthusiastic. Finally, this has led to the conclusion that a party observer and thus a vice chancellor was so upset that he essentially threw the towel because of his own party, and that is already remarkable in history. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we do not experience this for the first time. What we are not experiencing for the first time, however, is that we are then faithfully sorry for what this is for a permanent campaign, for a permanent battle and that it is not going on now. It was obviously the first goal of this group in the ÖVP, the government that took place on and for itself a little more than a year ago and in which one could possibly also have a certain hope that Mitterlehner and Kern would also care for a new style, perhaps also a new style with the opposition, but at least want to work together – I actually believed it for a time. Then there was the next goal: new elections as soon as possible: ==References====External links== September, we could be grateful to God, for this 24th. September would have meant that the new electoral decision had to be taken at the beginning of June and that the second important task of Parliament could not have been fulfilled. The one task of Parliament is the decision of laws, the information of the population, the other the control of the administration. This is a very relevant task, which we have not always been able to carry out in recent years, as it would have been important and valuable to us as a green person, namely the very important control work concerning: What has happened in recent decades, what has happened to abuses in recent years, and how can we stop them? And above all, this is also about the unscrupulous procurement of the Eurofighters, which at the time cost billions – billions that we would rather have put into the education system at the time. I can still remember the posters: Here your educational reform is flying – perhaps someone else remembers it. That was pointless expenditure and obviously financed through a lubricating network across the Republic, and that must be clarified! ==References====External links== In September, this would have meant the prevention of this very necessary educational work. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] Now comes the third step: What is the best possible solution for Austria or for an orderly solution to this permanent crisis? . We have been trying since last week to produce at least this month still work capacity in terms of control. Of course, we are always willing to work for reasonable, progressive projects, to make our votes available. We will look closely at what the Court of Auditors have proposed, for example, what improvements are possible. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would just like to say one thing: If one tries to force Parliament into an orbánization of its own, and I have this impression, because, as a party observer, one speaks of the great absolute right of entry, if one speaks of the authority of the substance, to 100 per cent, if one wants all the human powers, if one wants to have that in Parliament too, where one de facto wants to have a veto right, then one should also ask himself what that means for our democracy and for the Republic, if there is indeed the black and blue majority in it! [[Abg. Kickl: That's where the greens can sing a song of it!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's what the boys see Greens...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] The calls come from these series. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So that we can start voting right away, I shall make a request. Actually, the whole Republic would have expected, Minister Sebastian Kurz, that if you had been only deliberately serious with this pretended constructiveness, you would logically no longer have this Minister of the Interior, which was proven to be the detonator of this coalition, on your team. – Therefore, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15061	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15140	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15161	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that we are discussing today what the population, Austrians and Austrians are doing most: How's it going? What are we still doing together in implementation? When will it be chosen? Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz gave us three orders yesterday at the ÖVP Club. [[Abg. Kogler: Orders?]] - Yes, yes! [[Abg. Street: To command!]] We also liked to accept it, because if someone is something important... – Do you see how nervous you are?- Oh, my God! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] The first one was: He said that everything that is still possible in Parliament's decisions should be supported by intensive work by the ÖVP Parliamentary Club – and we will do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Where's the cardboard comrade? ... paper mesh!]] Secondly, It is all to do that the Committee of Inquiry can actually fulfil its task. – That is why we are of course in favour of it not until 30. The decision on new elections in autumn is formally taken on June. We will do the same, and we will be happy to follow this task too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Thirdly, Because we focus on work now, only in autumn... – Yes, I also enjoy the work! [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach]] I am glad that you too are happy – wonderful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] So let us go to work together cheerfully and not discouragedly and gruesomely! – Third, the election campaign must be held as short and fair as possible in autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this debate has so far gone on, because it already shows me that there is interest in the opposition parties as well, that we are continuing to work in order, although we know that there is, of course, an election campaign in politics, that we are in an exceptional situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who has...?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Where is he, Mr Kurz, for an opinion?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should do everything we can to a 24. September 2008 to avoid! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maybe some of you can still remember it. I called Klubobmann Strolz early this morning and told him that one can talk about his proposal to make a pact of responsibility. That was the first call Klubobmann Strolz received from me, and he also confirmed to me that I didn't make any calls. He is still speaking and can also confirm this to you. I have him – let's get back to serious! – said, we must prevent ourselves from going into a situation like on 24 May. ==References== What did we – and with “we” I mean – do at that time? [[pointing to itself]] – We made decisions on more than €3 billion, and hardly was the day of the election over, we had to take back – together; we were in the government at that time – decisions of €500 million. [[pointing towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Who was that? Who said it was enough? Who was that?]] Other decisions over €2.5 billion have remained. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: And who put in the Eurofighters?]] This time, in September 2017, we should save ourselves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what we should save ourselves. That is why I thank the opposition parties, who have now also succeeded – I say quite consciously: they have now also succeeded – that an agreement on the electoral day will be reached so quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] I am also seeking the opposition parties, as it is said here, to assume responsibility so that we do not do what journalists then qualified as follows: [[keeping an expression in the height of the title “Pact of Responsibility”]] [[Call: Where is the short]] Political actionitis, scapegoat, mindless populism, hysterical market mood and intoxication – that's what it's said after these decisions. [[Abg. Kickl: Power noise could be right!]] That was the evaluation of the Austrian commentators at the time. Now there are ten proposals by Federal Chancellor Kern on the table, and there are seven proposals from us. – You know: We want the employment bonus to be decided, we want to increase the research premium, we are in favour of abolishing cold progression, we want more flexibility and mobility on the labour market, we want a change in the payment of family support abroad, just to mention a few examples. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You don't believe what you're saying!]] We can still do a lot of things together here. That is what I see from the perspective of my group as the overall responsibility of the House here in Parliament to take appropriate decisions. [[Abg. Wenninger:... Education reform?]] We will cooperate constructively in the U Committee with our group leader Gabriele Tamandel, so that a corresponding outcome of the U Committee can be discussed here in Parliament before the day we vote. In this respect, we have a good regulatory framework, which is assured anyway. So let us not only talk about further work, but we are actually working here in the House together intensively!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15462	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15483	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Jarolim: Mr Strolz, where is Mr. Foreign Minister?]] – Yes, we are looking for him! Dear citizens, welcome to this important hour in which the time of this government is approaching the end – a government that has never found its strength, a government that has finally recognized it itself, but which has not even had the strength to bring its chaos to an orderly conclusion. That is why yesterday the four opposition groups met and jointly put on the table a proposal to this effect so that we can quickly get clarity. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we share the view that Austria needs clarity, especially in two points: When will it be re-elected when this government has come to its end – we have taken a good step forward yesterday – and what will – also need Austria clarity – still happen in the four months until the new election in this House, where 183 people are sitting, elected by you, paid by you with one of the highest tax and tax quotas in Europe that will still rise in the next few years? What do they want and can they still bring together in common? That is why it is good for us, hopefully all six party leaders, to meet today at 4 p.m. I am of the opinion that the heads of the party must assume responsibility and must not take responsibility. It was my wish that the Federal Chancellor should convene this meeting, and I think it is good that this has happened quickly. However, I also believe that if we today do not come to a common picture regarding the date or procedure of cooperation in the next four months, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany will invite the six heads of the party at a next stage of escalation and force them to work constructively. It is important that we work constructively here. Assuming constructiveness: I actually received a call from Mr Lopatka today. You need to know, I now have my own melody on my phone for Mr. Lopatka and Mr. Kurz. [[Abg. Kickl: Play me the song of death?]] – Whenever the two call, it rings and it sounds: Drah di nüber, the black man's going about it! - That's it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with NEOS and Greens, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] Allow me also a small note towards Sebastian KurzIt is of course my pleasure, Sebastian Kurz, that your request to one of us is that he should make the Minister of Economic Affairs. We can't say: We are Pope!, but: We're business! – The NEOS can say: We're economics, that's it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This has also been recognized by the former ÖVP, so we take it as an award. My problem, Sebastian Kurz, was just the style, and I'm very clear: If one cannot rely on a minimum of trust among party leaders, then we have a serious problem in this Republic. [[Abg. - That's right!]] Then the next government will land there, within a few months, where this government is now and has been for many months and years. After all, you can't even go to the toilet without any danger that when you come back, a bomb will stick under the chair. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Explosive master!]] That has been the problem of this government, and to extend this style would not be good. That is why I urge all party leaders – including the new ones – to find here a minimum level of moral, ethical standards, without that going to happen. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens]] But again: In principle one can express invitations, it is always a question of how and how. Of course, we regard it as an award of our economic competence and also as an indication that there is no one in their own ranks who can also fill the office of the Minister of Economic Affairs with competence. - Of course, that's a clue. Probably have to You are also looking for someone for the Ministry of Europe, because there is also an obvious lack of commitment and competence. [[Call:Handling needs]] – But as I said: In the meantime, we have, of course, reached a point where we are slowing down. This was at least a good call from Mr Lopatka today in the morning, because I think it is important that we do not repeat this point in 2008 – we were not here at the time, and of course we did not play it – when in this House in an attack of a piece of far mad by at night at 4 o'clock billions were shot – your money!Use custom fonts; [[Keeping a table with the title “Pact of Responsibility” in height]] [[direction Visitor Gallery]] You have to pay it and your children will also pay for it – for cheap vote. [[Abg. Brosz: For example, those who don't pay any more study fees!]] That can't happen anymore! [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] That is why I have also been with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany today, and that is why today I have sent to all the club members here in Parliament this proposal concerning a pact of responsibility. We need a moral commitment of all Parliamentary forces so that something like this does not happen anymore. - That's what I mean by everything! Because I see here a grin of Mr. Strache: That's what I'm talking about. They were there at the time, 2008; They were all there, except for us. [[Abg. Brosz: The tuition fees abolished!]] That is why it is important that we really establish a safety net here for taxpayers and that this does not happen again. This is very serious, and I am pleased that Mr Lopatka has also signalled: I am not so bound to the Government Convention. I have given to Mr Bundeskanzler 13 points which we consider to be a priority for the next few months. There are too many children every day, far too many young people unhappy from school home, there are too many who are not well. This is an indication that the school system is not up to date. There are innumerable educators who have good ideas, but who do not come to unfold, because especially party politics in school is more important than good ideas and qualifications. That is why I am concerned that we are still bringing the educational reform over the edge. This is an appeal to Christian Kern, Sebastian Kurz, to take a heart. Let's throw overboard the knitting pattern that's now in the education boards! No, the princes of the country should not have access to power! – If we could still eliminate this trick error in this proposal for a law, then we would have NEOS – we also have many other points that hurt us – jumping and going over our shadows. But if you, Sebastian Kurz, make it possible, if the ÖVP manages to dispute it, that one does not give in to the pressure of the teacher union and the national leaders, but rather to pursue the interests of parents, teachers and children, then we can create something here. We can also send the business order back to the start. I know from short, from Mahrer and others that they say quite clearly: Yes, the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce should be gone; this has nothing to look for here in 2017! Since Sebastian Kurz now has the full right of entry into the ÖVP, he should follow his certainty. That day, when we see whether he is following his conscience or whether he is still carrying a foothold of the chamber state and the alliances, will soon come. [[Abg. Wheeler: Two!]] The question is also: Can we just send them back to the start to find a better business order? – In this respect, I also urge the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to do so because I know that social democracy in this dictatorship of the Chamber of Commerce has only gone with stomach pain. Take a heart and say: Then let's put it back when we're at the point where we're! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The cold progression belongs of course abolished! We will make further proposals to this end, and we will have time to do so in June. We need a discharge! There are too many people in this country who have too little money left at the end of the month, which is why they have to ask themselves the question: Is this repair of the car going on? What about the new washing machine since the old one's broken? Over the next few years, the cold progression will constantly take them out of the pockets – thousands of euros! – and we can put it off: we all together, if we want. We NEOS are ready to do this. Another note: I am pleased that we have been the first citizen movement to be here for decades and have been able to make a powerful contribution in recent years. I am pleased that our example has inspired others so much that they also want to make citizens' movement today. I can tell you Sebastian Kurz, a citizen movement must grow in step. A citizen movement, no, you can't buy it in the building market and you can't order it in the party board, but you have to work it out. In this sense, I wish Sebastian all the best! We are happy when our strength is contagious and our vitality as a citizen movement is inspiring. We are for constructive cooperation in the next four months every day – every day, Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! – ready. So: Call us!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15673	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15695	High house! Federal Chancellor! It will probably surprise you, Mr Bundeskanzler, but I have great understanding of your approach, because here you are confronted with a person I, as I believe, can compare with one – let me put it this way – Frank Underwood of Austrian domestic policy very well. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who?]] If you look at the “trend” report, I think Kevin Spacey should soon call and get some tips on how to spin intrigue in politics to get to power. That means Frank Underwood from “House of Cards” wouldn’t have been better, so I understand of course that you say: Okay, now I've been looking at this for a while, but that's not how it goes. But – and the great But is coming – you are not entirely innocent of the matter either, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because if you go back a little bit in time, you can see that Plan A was nothing but an extortion. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Now you can share a lot of content – no question, there are good points! – the question is just how you did it. That is, you stood up without involving the coalition partner, and you said: That's our plan, fresh or dead! [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] Now, if you're going to shoot the black Peter to the ÖVP, then that certainly has its permissions, no question, there's a lot going on, but you also have to come at your own door. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Color definitely!]] All that is happening now has not fallen from heaven, but it has been characterized by the lack of willingness from both sides to move something positive, and that is the problem. If you make yourself here today and say: We now want to give power to Parliament, then I welcome it for a simple reason: That's in the Constitution! It was just that we didn't live the Constitution. In the past, we have had a perverted state in our Republic, in which Parliament in reality – almost like a Kasperl Theatre – has reflected everything the government wanted. That is to say, the principle of the division of powers is actually in the Constitution. The government receives the orders from Parliament on the legislative laws and then carries out what Parliament wants. That's how it should be. In addition, Parliament controls the government. But let's take a look at what happened on the 1st. March 2017 happened when Mr. But-non-Vizekanzler stood up as Foreign Minister and admitted openly – I am here – that the Austrian Federal Government has broken the right massively and several times in the refugee question! ==References== ==References====External links== As a result, Parliament would normally have had to release it immediately by means of a distrust request. That would be the task of Parliament, it is in the Constitution. The government is the executive, we are the legislative. That is, if the executive does not carry out what we decide here, then we have to distrust her. However, the least has come to mind because, unfortunately, Parliament does not have this free play of forces, but because the Red and Black MEPs are unfortunately acting as the agents of this government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now the Federal Chancellor wants us to return to the normal state. To that end, I say: Bravo! Finally! Finally, Parliament is again given the role that it normally has to adopt laws which the government then has the right to implement. Then we don't have the problem that any Sobotkas, some say sobot-age-kas, sit down, sabotage everything, the government doesn't do anything and Parliament can only look stupid. That's how the situation was. Normally it's reverse: We take the issue in our hands, we say what to do, and the government is carrying out! So it is in the Constitution and so we will now manage it in the next few months. After the next election, and this will be quite exciting, there will have to be new constellations. There is probably no one who believes that ÖVP and SPÖ can still work together. That means that there must be new constellations in one way or another. I think we all agree in this. And through this free play of forces, the population can then take one to one picture of what is possible after the next election, because only if everyone – and since I also mean Mr. Non-Vizekanzler Kurz – put everything they want to implement on the table and the Mr. Kern puts everything on the table, can you see what is possible in the interest of Austria and where there are majority groups who can then rule accordingly after the election. That's what it's all about. We have nothing to do with Mr Kurz short now breaking out of the cover with a good winch of reelections from the fence and perhaps even getting the majority if we have no chance to do something again. That means: If we allow Parliament to rule or at least pass the laws, as the Constitution says, then we will see who can work with whom! I invite the ÖVP to do so, and I must also say that I do not believe that the ÖVP wants to work together somehow, because the ÖVP is always about maintaining power and building power. That's why the ÖVP is doing, and that's the problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We see this in Lower Austria, we see it in so many federal states: that the ÖVP is only about how it can gain power and how it can expand it, but not about work in law. You, Mr Kurz, Mr Non-Vicekanzler – I have to say it again and again because it is so bizarre; it is so bizarre that someone pretends to want to move for Austria, but then does not want to take responsibility, but it should be so – you, Mr Kurz, will now speak after me, and I tell you, I want to know from you what you are planning and what initiatives you want to take here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] I want to know about you. I don't want to hear you want to do something with the SPÖ. What we haven't been able to do for years, do we want to implement in the last few weeks?- Oh, my God! That's exactly as if someone who's been terminated because he didn't bring anything on the way says: But now I'm motivated! - It's too late! If you are talking about me again and as you have spoken about me before, when you have spoken about me, I have to say again that you are already putting a lot on the way – the Koran distribution, for example, the complete veiling – then, Mr. Kurz, I have to tell you that you are like a house administrator who is thousands of times aware that the house is in danger of collapse, that everything is defective; You would then also say: We've moved new tension carpets! - That's too little! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Stronach team and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Put your concepts on the table as regards migration as regards economy, then we can see in the free play of forces where there are majority – and there are, you will see it! Only: You don't want to put anything on the table! You will now most likely drop some word caves again because you do not want your star to fade as fast as possible. That's exactly the problem: The specific political work is difficult, because there are different interests. A political talent you're supposed to be is looking for commonplaces. But you are not, you are not a political talent in the sense of how I understand politics. A good politician is looking for commons. What do you do and what have you done with your Sobot-age-ka in the past? – You have been looking for a separation, you have been looking for a permanent separation, but you can’t implement a separation, you can only implement commons, and therefore, Mr. Fast-Vizekanzler: Look for commons, you will find them here in Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15803	Mr Klubobmann Lugar, we agreed that there is a call for an order here in plenary, and so I have to give it. Mr Bundesminister Kurz will now deliver an opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15833	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity to deliver an opinion here. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] I will not deliberately respond to the attacks, nor do I intend to attack anyone else, but I only want to take advantage of the opportunity and talk about what I think would be useful, how we could act in the next few months. First of all, I would like to stress that I am glad that the opposition parties agreed yesterday on an election. I can congratulate you for doing this so quickly. I immediately responded and also announced our agreement, and the SPÖ has also done so. I believe that it is actually a strong sign of the opposition, of the Parliament and of our democracy that we have agreed so quickly on a new election date – and this with an all-party agreement across the party borders. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] The second chance to place such a strong sign will be the election campaign itself, namely, if we all together realize that this campaign is a short, more intense, but at the same time fairer. It is, I believe, not only in the sense of all politicians, but also in the sense of our country. The third point I would like to address is the question of how things continue until then. There are two different ways to choose from my point of view. One way is by keeping to the Coalition Convention, and the second is to break the Coalition Convention, to agree with each other, and thus to move the permanent election campaign into Parliament, possibly to break down porcelain, and – Matthias Strolz and others have already mentioned it – perhaps even to cause it to become very, very expensive for the budget, as demonstrated in 2008. I don't want to make anyone a point, I can't do that either, but I can say how I will act myself. I have a clear attitude on this question: I would like to act orderly and sensiblely, I feel bound to the Coalition Convention and I do not want to overrule the SPÖ here either. [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: I think so!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I share the assessment...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15915	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more peace! - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15930	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again: I don't want to overmate the coalition partner. I think it makes sense to have a living parliamentaryism, to deal with each other in an orderly manner in the months until the election. Our goal is – many have already stressed – that we are implementing the outstanding points in the government programme together. The Federal Chancellor and I had several discussions yesterday, and I can say that not only the points you have proposed are points that I can support, but also we have raised a number of points, and I hope that we will succeed in implementing as many of these points together as possible until the election date. [[towards Bundeskanzler Kern]] I have deliberately proposed someone as a vice chancellor, who, in my opinion, is a guarantee that you can work together. Wolfgang Brandstetter has not yet been involved in any dispute, and I would ask that they give us and that they give him a chance. Our offer to use the time to implement as many points as possible stands, and I very much hope that we will succeed together. If there is support here in Parliament, then this should not disturb us, but quite the contrary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] I would like to address one last point...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15978	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, that at this stage emotions are going very high, but you have to let the Minister speak. We all have the opportunity to hold back from the speaker's desk. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16011	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is not only important to deal with each other in a partnership, but also to deal with each other in a way that is all right, if you want to end it. I clearly outlined my attitude on Friday: I think it makes sense to go to elections. I do not think it would be useful to continue this coalition – on the one hand, because of the permanent election campaign that has taken place over the last few months, and on the other hand, because I believe that recent times have shown that this was not necessarily the partnership in which much more than minimal compromises could be achieved. I still stand to do so, and I also insist that I spend the last few months together in a dignified way and then lead a fair campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16041	Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16101	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is good that we have heard this for the second time today, so that we can all really convince ourselves how thin the soup really is, with which you, Mr Kurz, believe in a election movement. Of course, it becomes clear that you prefer to choose tomorrow than sometime in September or October, because if you continue this way, you will soon get out of the air. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to tell you one thing – and this is interesting, because you are also one of those who are now reinventing themselves again – my dear ladies and gentlemen: Let us now look away from Mr Mitterlehner, who has been driven away, some also say, "Pursing away, Mr Mitterlehner, then, has not just spoken of anyone who would be entirely new in this policy and new in government responsibility, but is the one who is the longest serving member of the government of the ÖVP in the current realm: Sebastian Kurz. [[Wow-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] This is the man who bears the greatest and longest responsibility for all the misdevelopments in this Republic and who today has nothing to do but blur his own traces and fellowmanship. [[Congratulations to the FPÖ and to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Schenk.]] A key point for me: I have never heard so much of reason, of responsibility and commonness as here in recent weeks and especially in recent days, and at the same time it has never been as much irrational, as much tactilism and as much discord as it is now. And this is already an interesting finding to which you have to come, because that is the result if the hopeholders are at work on the side of two so-called state-bearing parties. The hopemakers are at work – and the chaos breaks out! This is the state that currently prevails in Austria. What is this, ladies and gentlemen, for a picture of the pity? What kind of misery is that there behind me on the government bank? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's this lubrication theatre, I'm already trying to say that you've been showing up here in the last few months, weeks and days in ever more intense intensity? Also, Mr Lopatka's satiric contribution cannot be comforted, which now insists that it would actually be quite good to start working. Now, where everything is in the end! – That’s incredible! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I can only tell you one thing: If you were to rule only half as well – and this applies to both, including Mr. Kern – as you do, if you come here and make a statement after another, at a shallow, but rhetorical level, to present one plan after another, try to subjugate one employment agreement after another of the population, you would only work half as well, then at least you could claim to have contributed to the solution of the problems in that country. That alone is not the case, and in the meantime it is in the population that you do not solve the problems, but are the biggest problem in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This claim to solve the big problems, you have put together, and for that you have this formation, this red-black coalition, animated and re-animated and animated again, and now it has finally died. And the crucial point is: You both and not one of them bear the responsibility for the state and for the chaos in which we are – you both in exactly this constellation and you both in your self-glorification, in which you are still as state-bearing parties and in reality only cause chaotic states! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That is why it is similar to my patriotic duty to present here as a representative, but also as a citizen, a motion of distrust against this entire federal government, which I do with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because you do not even bring a proper end to your dress. They dissolve the coalition and at the same time stay up there. [[towards the government bank]] What is all that we are currently experiencing? What's that? As the founding fathers of SPÖ and ÖVP would turn around in the grave, they could see what the hopemakers of today are showing up here in this Republic only to keep their posts. Incredible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Without the aid of the opposition, you would not even have made an election. You have needed us for years so that you can write down the topics with us because you no longer know what the people are interested in. Now we'll help you with the election date. Yes, if you want, we will be happy to show you how to rule properly after the next election in the interest of the people of this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unlike you, we stand to our responsibility. We also know what opposition and what government is. You know, I don't think, that you needed a basic course for this, because many of your activities, both from the SPÖ and from the ÖVP, have been made up of nothing more than making demands on yourself, demands for which, when it comes to implementation, no one else is responsible than yourself. What is this staging? What kind of theatre have you been holding the country hostage for months? That's great! You should stand up one by one in a row and apologise to the people for what you've been baffled here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are two sides one and the same medal. On the one hand, we have a foreign minister – I say he is the most prominent and the most expensive refugee in Austria – that is Sebastian Kurz, on the run, permanently on the run! [[Abg. Lopatka: Please!]] I admittedly resorted to a slightly cracky comparison when I said, for me, the political scattering is: You pull a little around the houses, there a scent trail, there a scent trail, but you're not to grab. It's a lucky thing he's here today. That's a real lucky case, I didn't count on it. What's that? On the run, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Schenk.]] At the same time it is said that one wants to take responsibility – yes, yes, perhaps for the re-animation of the bowl ÖVP, that may be already, but certainly not for this republic and the population outside, which in reality only needs to observe and take note of this drive more frustrated and angry. If it really is your responsibility, then you have to do what ÖVP can best: Access with both hands when it comes to power, and if you have four hands, then you have to access with four hands; that is what the ÖVP does best. To do this, however, you make a huge bow, and thus you show how transparent the whole game is that you drive. I think I have to tell you that being a foreign minister does not mean getting inside from outside and pretending as if you have nothing to do with the whole, although you are part of this team. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kogler]] And I have to tell you, I think, that They are responsible for integration and not for intrigue. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] That's something else. I don't think anyone has said that to you in terms of clarity. I am the first, and the tip is free, Minister Kurz. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But on the other hand, we have a SPÖ Federal Chancellor, also quite interesting, a rapid dynamic. We can all remember: Launched with full gas, lost a little bit of driving day after day, in the meantime stopped, and some claim that he is now picking quite firmly at the chair. This is the German Chancellor's core. You can't knock on the chest and say that you've worked for this country – you haven't done that, except you claim that talking about the work would be the actual work. That's what you've staged for months. And you're no better than your opponent on the black side. There can be They now point each other with their fingers on the other and look for responsibility with the other. You're not better at any interpretation, because you've only staged for the purpose of finding the right time to jump. Then you didn't have the courage, or luck left you, however, a little bit was probably: I want to, but I don't trust myself! In this characteristic of a German chancellor, you have to ask yourself: Is that really the right man? Do we need a German chancellor carved out of the wood that he fears not only his own party, but also the election people and covers his chair with glue, that he does not have to leave office a day earlier, although the population would have deserved it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen. And now all these endurance paroles and all these confessions are not using anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It's all incredible! That's incredible! You have to tell the population what is happening here: a single label flaw and a single mogel pack. In the meantime, one goes so far that these two parties of their own, of their contents and of their own persons – I would take a little care in the ranks of the ÖVP at this general authority, perhaps we do not see many of you again – to distance themselves from all of this. This is then, then you will also feel, many Austrian workers are suffering: That's the blackout competition. [[Sociability and applause at the FPÖ as well as the Abg. Franz.]] One does not frighten back from stripping off all of this, but in fact only for the purpose of helping, after the election, precisely these parties, which one rejects now, again to power. This is the game, ladies and gentlemen, which is running here – not that both parties would have become smarter and would see that such a thing as loss of power is a normal component in a democratic process. There are phases in which one is in power, then one loses elections, then one takes away from power, and others take on the responsibility of which you talk so much. But you don't want to know anything about it, you want to keep the power for yourself, and stage it for that You're a new theater every day! And it's really nothing too stupid for you to deceive the people. Under the rule, the reds are working to weaken the blacks in order to be able to prevail in a coalition that should look like now again, and the blacks are working to weaken the reds, and then to be able to prevail in a coalition that will look like now. This is the game that is actually being run, everything else is staging, and I think we have now experienced enough of all these stagings. I see this as an essential contribution to facilitating the political debate in this country, to opening people's eyes to this game that is being driven here, on behalf of responsibility and togetherness. I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is immense. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The crucial point is – and we will point this out – that: None of you are better off than the other. It only works when both join, both healers. I can't believe what's happening. But it will only change something in this country – and I believe that this awareness will prevail more day by day – if the Freedom Party is the strongest force in this House and emerges from a choice as the first. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm telling you quite honestly: You need not only teach you what the topics are, you need not only help you with the election date on the jumps, you also need to show you how to govern better, and you both probably have to discipline democracy politically again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16348	The request for distrust is sufficiently supported, properly filed and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16400	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl has now been reported in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16421	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kickl, it's not a game. [[Abg. Cute: No!]] [[Abg. No, not at all!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - No, it's not a game. And if you understand all of this as a game, that is obviously the key to that you are unable to see and recognize what has happened to good, constructive work in recent years. [[Mr Höbart, Mr Hübner, Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Lausch.]] Unfortunately, you are not able to do this. At this point I would like to express my express thanks to Reinhold Mitterlehner. In recent years, I have cooperated with and worked with him as a science minister, and he – unfortunately “was” – was a politician who had a really good style. With all the very different views we have in this area, he has always been someone who has been looking for good solutions from this point of view, common solutions that we have also found. It really hurt me, and I'm sorry about how he was crushed and that he has now agreed and can no longer continue this path to find good solutions, not pointless provocations. [[Abg. New builder: Mr. Faymann didn't hurt you, did he?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] The ÖVP has now made a change, that is its good right. What interests us here is how she does it. We also made a change a year ago, we have a new Federal Chancellor, who has been looking for a new team and has worked constructively with his new team, has been looking for solutions and has gone a good way here as far as possible with the partner we had, who – and that has been described in detail – was not always on the road to solution. [[Abg. Rädler: With us decides...!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You have a core problem!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Pizza sell he went!]] You have now passed with a total bang, through the current television cameras you have directed the coalition partner to the end of the coalition. [[Abg. Rädler: Just like Plan A!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Content!]] This style will have to be assessed by voters. If the clubman of the ÖVP, colleague Lopatka, says today, and now you are going to work cheerfully, then there are some alarm bells at our house, even if you say you are getting to the phone right away. So I hope that this does not mean that the stage of poker will not end, just as the Federal Chancellor has rightly demanded, but is only raised to another level. What people expect from us is that this phase of poker, which has now taken place in the last few days, will be finished as quickly as possible, that we will return to work on the subject and work out good solutions for people's living conditions. [[Call the FPÖ: But you'll soon get on it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can't be about moving poker just to another level. But now Parliament is at the ball, in another, in a stronger role, in a more demanding role than before. By the way, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have already wondered this morning: You are a little confused because you put yourself in front of Parliament this morning – you know where you are here? – and explained to us that you have to re-elect because now no one has been elected. This Parliament is sitting here, and it is a self-confident Parliament, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Exactly!]] [[We welcome the SPÖ and Mr Korun and Mr Loacker.]] In your current statement, you have said to our astonishment that it does not bother you if Parliament agrees and finds solutions. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] – Mr Minister, you are messing up your and our role. We, the Parliament, decide the laws, and you, Mr Minister, are executing them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] What is important now is that in the weeks that are still at our disposal, we shape the situation in such a way that we can really improve people's living conditions where it is necessary. Points have been mentioned: It is about the fact that, if possible, everyone has a job, has a job of which they or he also live, who pay for the apartment, who can support children and be sure that the children, all children, have a good education and training in our country – all children, according to their talent and not according to the parents' wallet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hübner]] [[I should like to congratulate Mr Korun and Mr Walser on his work.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ball is now with us in Parliament. We like to pick him up.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16654	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16675	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If you undress what was said in the last hour – there were very, very meaningful and important statements – the polemics, then you conclude: Actually, it's just a term, it's just about the term trust. If the trust is lost, then simply in every relationship is what is reasonably necessary: Then you have to stop at a reasonable end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] We experience the daily dozens of times in justice with our family justice aid. There comes the Family Court and says: Yes, now we help you concerned, we see that we find a reasonable end, as far as possible without emotions, we see that we are doing the best out of the situation. [[Abg. Strache: Is there a psychological care?]] That is why I am saying this because in principle what is true in small matters is also true in large sizes. And that's how I see it now. We have, if you want to, a clear expiry date, and in this situation it is perhaps easier to do what is necessary, and I am also quite right in what Mr Bundeskanzler has said, namely to put an end to what was started, to finalize what is still happening in projects, even in the interests of the population and the country where it goes. Don't believe that I want to arouse particularly great expectations now, that doesn't make sense, but what's still possible belongs to simply made, and I think that's really possible. I think we should use this opportunity until the last day before the election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it was also very important and very useful to take account of the Committee of Inquiry, which is also important to me, not a question. Of course, it is also necessary and proper to actually realize everything on projects, which is still somehow possible. With a secure expiry date, this may be easier to fall there or there. I know that I need the support of both government parties. [[Abg. Brosz: You don't really need them...!]] But I have them, I think I have them, otherwise I would not have been seriously concerned about just remembering the function of Vice-Cancellor. I would like to tell you a story because it is also, I believe, about confidence, the trust also between the Federal Chancellor and me. It's been three years since the Federal Chancellor was still ÖBB General Director, since I faced him with an idea, namely the idea that young people from the Gerasdorf Detention Centre should be brought to mind once more how to work hard and how difficult it is to spray and clean the cars, so that they can be used again. He liked to take up this idea. We actually realized a project together, and in the end we felt that was a very meaningful action. The young people have seen how difficult it is, they have thought something about it, and they have noticed it. This little episode, in which we have come to the conclusion, we have made something very reasonable together, so I tell you because it creates trust, and it has created trust. I believe that we have always had a very good relationship with each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I also have the confidence of Mr Sebastian Kurz, and since I have this confidence, I can also tell you that, if possible, we will be able to make three points in the Council of Ministers on next Tuesday, if it is possible to do so. I think so. [[Call the FPÖ:New elections!]] We can increase the research premium from 12 to 14 percent, we can achieve the rate of 30 percent for supervisory councils in listed and large companies, and we can also implement the study aid reform, which is also negotiated. That's what it's all about: So many things are actually done as well as you just need to implement, and if we really can stop the emotions and simply follow the path of reason, then in the interest of the people, in the interest of the country, there can still be some success. This attempt is worth it, and that is why I would very much like to make an effort. Perhaps I can take another point because the Federal Chancellor called him: With great joy I have heard that you, Federal Chancellor, have also referred to the reform of economic law. Yes, there are still so many things to do, there is still so many things in the pipeline, but with the consciousness of the due date, I think, we really have the chance to realize some more. I'd be glad and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16761	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16782	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Because it is a personal need for me, I also thank our former colleague, the former vice-chanc Reinhold Mitterlehner. It is not an underestimable political sign that for a member of the government who has enjoyed our trust and whose integrity has no doubt, there is no place in the ÖVP. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wheeler: unlikely!]] And it is a fact that now this is no longer the party of Reinhold Mitterlehner, but the party of Sebastian Kurzist. Secondly, it will obviously be very personal: I got an e-mail last night at 2.30 p.m., I'll read it to you: Here, I found Yesterday Sebastian informed you by e-mail about the most important news. But it was still a big concern for him to say a few words to supporters like you personally. – Among them would be a video message from Sebastian. [[Call at the ÖVP: You can see it!]] It goes on: Thank you very much for the support and the offer especially in the last few days. See you soon! Christina, Team Kurz. - Quote. [[Abg. Fekter: Are these fake news?]] Dear Christina, dear Sebastian, I am asking you, in the future, to refrain from making such submissions in accordance with § 107 of the Telecommunications Act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Raedler: Procurator!]] [[Abg. Wöger:... the support!]] And I would like to say a second thing to you, Mr Foreign Minister and Mr ÖVP-Obmann: Your statement that you are not bothering Parliament was clear enough. And I'll tell you one more thing: This Parliament will not be disturbed by you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been a short plan, and at the top of this short plan is the fastest possible resolution of the National Council. Point 2 of the short-plan was to shorten the investigation committee in such a way that, as far as possible, only the issue of proof I, namely the Darabos comparison, and only the SPÖ, the coalition partner, had something to fear from this investigation committee. Point 3 was to let the coalition break, but to say: I don't want a coalition, but I want coalition discipline! And in the non-coalition coalition discipline, the coalition partner demands that he does not match the ÖVP. That is to say, the new ÖVP-Obmann proposes to all serious that although there is no government anymore, there is no coalition anymore, the ÖVP reform blockade must be maintained. There must be no law against the ÖVP in the National Council. Are you making all of us serious, Mr. Obmann Kurz, such absurd proposals that you say you dictate us with your party, if this is still a party, an election? [[Abg. Rädler: You haven't signed!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Where do you get this?]] You dictate to the committee of inquiry and to Parliament what we should examine and what we should have missed? And you explain to us that the SPÖ still has to behave disciplined, as a coalition partner without coalition? Sage You're telling me: Did you seriously consider what you're proposing publicly? This is the case with the ÖVP, of course, because we have seen it in the last few weeks, because it is obvious that the ÖVP is really everything, because everything is swallowed, because everything is being followed, because the political hopelessness in the ÖVP is already so great that Sebastian Kurz is a hope-holder, but with us as Parliament, Mr Obmann Kurz, you do not, certainly not do that! [[Abg. Rädler: And with the greens?]] [[Abg. Haider: What about the greens?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] I called colleagues on Sunday Strache and told him that it is absurd that the new ÖVP-Obmann believes that he can dictate us elections and turn-offs of the U Committee. [[Abg. Rädler: Are you party leader?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Did you call the Eva too?]] And it was perfectly clear, and that has been made clear by all the club members that only a summit of opposition can determine how it continues. This summit was successful yesterday, and you, Mr Obmann Kurz, have received a clear message from Parliament when it is elected, how long the Committee of Inquiry is working, and how we intend to protect the Committee of Inquiry from Obmann. Of course there's some unpleasant thing in there. The SPÖ has been white for a long time: It is not to be prevented that the Darabos comparison will be examined in 2007, but now, Mr Obmann Kurz, you also know, it is not possible to prevent evidence from being examined too, and the subject of evidence II is called ‘unauthorised payment flows’. And there has been a Eurofighter party in front of everyone else, and their three party letters are now just before they are finally rebaptized: [[Abg. The Greens! The green-white! Rapid!]] ÖVP, this is the Eurofighter party number 1, without ÖVP no type decision, without ÖVP no purchase contract, without ÖVP not the entire networks, over which 183,4 million € have been sent to tax money around the world and have been sent into dark channels. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Wheeler: 3 million for Rapid!]] And this Enlightenment, Mr. Obmann Kurz, will and cannot prevent you. As a Parliament, we have ensured this, and together with the colleagues of the EIA, I attach great importance to it, we will clarify a subject of evidence in a very serious way with each other as MEPs in Parliament. And now the last one: Yes, with Reinhold Middellehner the wrong minister has resigned, another should have resigned long ago, that was your husband for the Grobe, Mr. Obmann Kurz: [[Abg. Wheeler: Or fungus!]] Interior Minister Sobotka. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where did Mr Sobotka go? Has he disappeared?]] This is no longer the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria, but it is the Minister of the Interior for Internal Affairs of the ÖVP and its execution. An interior minister of this kind, who is nothing but the political demolition of his supervisor, has lost nothing in a federal government, and therefore our request for distrust is more than well-founded. As we, ladies and gentlemen, have shown in the last few days that we as Parliament do not allow ourselves to be offered by a new party leader, I would like to ask you to agree to this motion of censure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17062	Mrs Van Minzig. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17084	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler:... in power, all this wouldn't have happened!]] On political behaviour, the Greens are really the last to give advice, because if you throw out your own youth organization, you sit in the glass house and you really shouldn't throw stones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But your youth organization has just gone out!]] And with you, Mr Pilz, as a self-proclaimed detector, nothing remains except suspicions. I am a little amazed today at the excitement of the opposition, for when I remember the first National Council meetings in 2013, everyone already demanded: New elections, new elections and new elections! – So this is really not a new topic. I am glad, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you too stand for an objective cooperation over the next four months and for a careful handling of the tax money within the meaning of the economic and labour location. It also occurs in business families that there are divorces and that after the divorce there is still very neat cooperation in the sense of the company, because the company Austria is a good one. Austria, the Austrian economy, has developed very well in the first quarter, thanks also to the measures we have decided in this legislative period – I am thinking of the start-up package, the additional wage reduction, the best bidder principle, the alternative financing law, but also the investment package. We will achieve economic growth of 1.8 to 2 percent. Consumer consumption has increased thanks to the tax reform. Exports have recovered slightly, and unemployment, including those involved in training, has also fallen by 2.6 percent to 413 000 people, but of course still far too high for us. As an economic representative and entrepreneur, I am very concerned about the further development of the site, and therefore I would like to see the work programme implemented by the Federal Government, the planned or negotiated measures implemented, as this serves to facilitate the backpack of entrepreneurs so that we can create new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am particularly concerned, for example, with the abolition of the cumulation principle required by the EU's General Data Protection Regulation. The multiple-punishment concerns many small entrepreneurs who are busy all day long with the day-to-day business, who cannot worry about what laws they must comply with. This may be in your former group, Mr. Federal Chancellor, otherwise where you had a staff of lawyers. However, the package for the labour market is also very important to me, the deregulation of the Workers' Protection Act or mobility on the labour market, but also the employment bonus, the development of particularly qualified jobs and, of course, the increase in the research premium to 14 percent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if the implementation is as important to you as you have emphasized today, then have You still have enough opportunity to agree to our government drafts. I think of the integration law.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17151	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17173	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Strache: How was the call with you?]] The Foreign Minister said before – I think I can do it in a reasonable way –: We are not going to get over with, but we are looking after a living parliamentarianism. I think this is a paradox, and we should be careful not to make such a carver and not just to wake up with the pizza, but also to turn to the real deeds in this respect. It's right: The economy is uphill. It's right: There's something going on to the positive. What you have forgotten, however, Mr. Bundeskanzler – and that is why these are words of sunshine – is that the budget data show an increase in the deficit to 1.6 percent that we have a debt of 0.5 percentage points higher within a year by 2016. While all the others around us are canceling debts, reducing debts, we are accumulating debts for the next generation. The next generation has a big backpack to carry; and this is actually what I am talking about in my policy or in the opinion of NEOS, namely that we are trying here to promote more entrepreneurship, to make it easier for entrepreneurs, because many entrepreneurs often have sleepless nights, because for them the sun does not always seem to continue the trade regulation reform, so that we end the chamber pressure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Strache.]] You could join us, Mr. Strache. We can discuss this for the next 90 days: If we still want to do so, do we still need social partnership in this form? We should remember looking for majority voting on these issues. That would be living parliamentaryism, and that is what we want to look at! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Bitch.]] In this respect, it should continue – and we would like to do so too. We would also like to discuss: How do we reduce the tax rate? We need a concept. The NEOS as an economic party have a clear concept of how to put the tax rate below 40 percent. We have a clear concept of how our trade order should look; and I appeal to you: Just tomorrow is – how do you say so beautifully, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – the paint must test what will happen to the trade order. How will tomorrow be voted? [[Abg. Strache: Been unspoiled!]] For these reasons I would like to stress once again: The Foreign Minister has a list authority, but I think he is in front of an anti-design authority. It is therefore very important that we think, above all, about the pressure of the Chamber, about these shadow governments that are running out of this country. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as Mr Strache and Mr Lichtenecker.]] That would now be the opportunity to discuss in the next 90 days what we are doing with this country, in order to make it easier for free people, self-responsibility, in the sense of freedom, liberal thought, even those who pay taxes in that country. We owe it to them. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's why we should take care of ourselves! We can now and tomorrow vote on what is really happening with this trade order, as the Foreign Minister has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17281	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17385	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17406	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few personal words. When I was elected to the National Council in 2013, I had high expectations and great hopes – high expectations especially as regards the Federal Government. I was indeed of the opinion that in the Federal Government people with full energy are fully committed to the concerns of the population. I tell you, some of them do this too, some of them do very good work, but a part of the Federal Government has decoupled and just moved on to the stage. I personally assume that people outside don't want to be stagers. They want people who move something, they want people who take their concerns seriously, and they especially want it to get better in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The highlight of the staging – as both parties have not remained guilty – was for me when the Chancellor himself said that 95 percent were staging, and then this pizza action was carried out to get in touch with people outside. I'll tell you, too. I have four children myself, I know about the problems of youth. I know how difficult it is to get jobs, and I am in my environment daily with people with soil liability. That is, each of us, most of us mandates know the problems of dealing with the population personally, none of us have to deliver pizza so that we know how people are doing. I would like us to have a federal chancellor who has a ground liability, who knows what moves people outside. [[Call at SPÖ:We have a Federal Chancellor with ground liability!]] On the other side Side is the new but-non-victional chancellor – since it may not be so interesting to step into the responsibilities immediately. Even there I see a parallel: Too young, too beautiful, too intelligent. Didn't we have that before? – When we think about it, we had it before, and it didn’t go out quite well. [[Abg. Rosary: Who was that?- Oh, my God!]] – A former ÖVP minister. Even the tactic of flashing to the right and turning to the left is not an honest action. To play right topics constantly and then, when it comes to the sample of nails, position on the left, so that the voters don't see it, that's from my point of view election disappointment. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have experienced in the last few days and weeks can also be experienced in hunting. Perhaps one or other of you has ever observed a birch balz – a birch balz, in which each birkhahn positions itself, increases and stands as the most beautiful and largest. [[Call the SPÖ: What?- Oh, my God!]] Unfortunately, we have experienced this on the government bank. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Franz.]] [[Call to the SPÖ:The Lord Kurz is unfortunately not a birch!]] I am personally very sorry that the Committee of Inquiry cannot be completely disputed that even this dark causa of Austrian history cannot come to light, because it is again the ÖVP that has already meant it enough, and now attracts the reins and says: We don't want to get the whole thing straight. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: You are yourself a Südecker as a new ÖVP!]] - Todecker, that's the right word! Mr Kogler, you're perfectly right. We must not be surprised when people are confounded for politics. If people had even more insight, then – I can tell you that – would go even less to the choice. I have a deep understanding of this. It is not enough for you, I believe, for people it is very slow with this form of politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17502	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17523	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Everyone is so surprised that at once we have a coalition crisis, which now results in new elections, because you can't and don't want each other anymore. There has been a discussion for weeks and months now that SPÖ and ÖVP have, in fact, long agreed that they will be elected in the autumn of this year, because the EU Presidency and the country elections will be held in the other federal states in spring. One has only listened more closely to who is the first to throw away the nerves respectfully to whom the Black Peter can be given the invitation to re-election in any form. In fact, we must not be surprised, because in this government it has not been a year since, as Mrs Glawischnig said, it is actually happening. Not since the start. Why? – It is a forced marriage that came into being in 2013. The common interests that were involved were actually only post-chakers, power-keeping and party-booking. This is too thin a kitt for dealing with the problems in this country. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] There you tried to protect a little bit, but it won't work. It won't work if you deliver pizza, even if the chauffeur might be driving the Geilomobil through the area. It won't work. Ladies and gentlemen, on the situation of this government: It is the Federal Government, under which the illegal, uncontrolled mass immigration took place in 2015. That is the state of this government and that country. And who was there at the time? – Foreign Minister Kurz and the then Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner, who will now have the right of access in Lower Austria, as far as Sebastian Kurz permits. It's interesting: The powerful ÖVP Vienna has now shown the powerless ÖVP Niederösterreich to whom you can make the right to intervene here. But what does right of access mean? – If you look and go to the Internet, you will only find the term “right of entry” in two situations: on the one hand, in the current debate, namely the right of entry, which Sebastian Kurzhaben, and on the other hand, the right of entry, which Johanna Mikl-Leiter has brought to the attention of the Austrian communities when it comes to the accommodation of asylum seekers, which were then simply brought to the attention of the communities throughout the country with forced regulation, without regard to building regulations and land ordination, with the support of SPÖ and the Greens. That's the second big right we know. I say to you: When I read about the rape of a girl, a 15-year-old girl, in Tulln by three asylum seekers, or about a little joke of Afghan Lausbuben in Lilienfeld, who laid tree trunks on railway tracks, I must say: This kind of right of access is not what we want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Foreign Minister should not try so unsuccessfully to integrate himself, but perhaps act more as a return minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough that ideas should now be held in the mouth, all of which have come from the liberals for years and days, and which you just cut off. In my opinion, Sebastian is close to the fleshed blueprint of FPÖ requirements. Sure! You can remember! We have looked through all these demands of Sebastian Kurzhier in this House and asked: What about the voting behaviour of the members of the EIA in the natural vote? They were all against the measures proposed by Sebastian Kurzlbst. So I don't give you much courage to get on to the next shortlist in the mandate line, because it won't work for you. You heard it at the end of Mr Schellhorn's speech, he asked: End compulsory membership in the chambers! And Sebastian Kurz likes to have this man as an economic minister?- Oh, my God! – Dear economic association in the Chamber of Commerce, dear peasantry in the Chamber of Agriculture, dear workers' chamber in the Chamber of Workers, that will be an exciting thing. Now you know at least like Sebastian Kurztikt. I almost assumed he confused the phone numbers. He actually wanted to call the Franz Schellhorn. And just tipped it off. - That's what it'll look like. That's how you know how to tick. Also interesting is the following: We have been talking about cooperation in the last four months of this coalition, which we are dealing with right now, and it means that we should not make such requests, which will result in financial damage. But it is interesting what has been discussed here today by means of deadline proposals. NEOS and Greens have missed only one topic, namely that in some way the marriage contract is decoupled from marriage by saying only: Well, people who are somehow very close to each other should be able to do something! - There's a marriage in the back. And there's a marriage contract for both of them? - No, it doesn't work. In reality, these are social changes. It's almost less about making any million gifts. Now we are also excited about how the ÖVP will behave in all these things, because there are certainly sympathys. We liberals say when it comes to such social changes in the family sector: Sexuality is the other thing, but a good family is more important to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17633	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17654	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After 16 debate speakers, the air is certainly a little outside. Some are right, some are wrong. However, from my point of view, I would like to address and clarify some of the things that I do not entirely agree with. I do not agree when the ÖVP comes out in the form of its clubman and says: There has been a standstill, we must now start working for the last four months. I also do not agree with the fact that opposition speakers and speakers come out here, who say: Nothing went on, we didn't do anything. I would like to remind you of what we have achieved in the last twelve months. In the last 12 months under a German Chancellor Kern and a Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, we have passed 129 federal laws in this House. Although the proposals for these laws have mostly come from the government as government proposals, we have discussed many of these legislative instruments in the committees, strengthened and improved them with joint amendments. Then opposition politicians come to the speaker's desk and make our own work bad, in which they have voted for themselves. 44 laws have been passed unanimously in this House over the last 12 months. You don't do that: You don't do your own job in the house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This gives a terrible picture to all those sitting outside the TV sets and then believing that they would have always known it. We can really present the highlights together. If you listen to some black paintings here, I'm afraid the people will leave this country because they say: What's going on in this country? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's how it is anyway!]] We've achieved so much! The last really positive example is that with the supplementary pension for home victims. We have record investments in infrastructure, in security, more money for police, for federal army. We have achieved such a great deal, even for the weakest in our society with the compensation allowance rate of € 1,000 for single people over 30 years of contribution. It has happened so much, and we're going to this speaker's desk here and make each other's life difficult. The election campaign seems to have broken out, and I clearly think that is far too early. We still have so many important points to deal with. Now we know there will be the new elections, and I am now looking very consciously towards ÖVP. We have points where we are in the target. We have done preparatory work in the field of social affairs, in view of which I say: Guys, it must be possible to finish this regardless of when we choose. When it comes to 20 000 jobs, which can be created for people aged 50-plus 20 000 new jobs, when we think of the employment bonus, through which, according to AWS, 30 000 companies are willing to employ someone in addition, we recognize that this path is right, because we say: Increase employment, reduce unemployment! This is about 50,000 people who, in the next two years, will also come to a job, 50,000 people who are already in the system in Austria, who have paid contributions and ultimately only want to have a chance to get back to a job. To play party-politically with these people and with these topics is negligent. Therefore, my appeal is also towards ÖVP to take this very seriously and to work out the projects together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to say: It has been implemented a lot, but there have been a few – I do not want to hide it – who were on board on the way to this reform process, which was really very ambitious four months ago, in which ÖVP was on the steering wheel. That actually hurts because it wouldn't have been necessary. It would not have been necessary. We could have done this quietly and objectively by 2018 and then re-elected in Austria. In conclusion, the following conclusions shall be taken into account: Yes, we are also in the field of commercial innovation and the procurement innovation in the target area. If we still turn on some screws in these areas and succeed in taking a few steps here, then, I think, these novels will be possible. You know, ladies and gentlemen in the ÖVP, I am really taking Mr Klubobmann Lopatka and Mr Foreign Minister to the floor when they say they want to complete these joint projects. On the subject of cooperation, I say yes, but when it comes to removing, slowing down or preventing projects, I say no. If this is the case, it may be necessary to look for other majorities in this House, who do not have the goal of additional costs, but who have the goal of further improvements in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17703	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein is the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17726	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Muchitsch's election speech, I would like to take a step back. That's not how it was, my dear colleague. You know very well that the amendments to the government's proposals have, of course, only been necessary because in recent years you have not even been able to bring a bill into the committee and decide on it. We have received amendments to almost every bill that has come up until the end and partly, when the Committee has already discussed it. This only shows that this federal government has not been able to conclude a little in time together. [[Call the SPÖ: This is not our task!]] - Well, it's your job. You could have done it in such a way that it is ready for the Committee. It has been negotiated every time until the end, it has been disputed every time until the end – this has not been a good style either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] While the Committee is running, there have been still amendments by mail – that is not a good style, not only towards us but also internally. It just shows that you're nothing at all. It was common and always disputed until the last part-session. The Federal Chancellor has now turned back his appreciation to us, and he has left us after he has made his statement. [[Interlocutory remark by Federal Minister Leichtfried.]] In reality, you have to say: A year ago, the Federal Chancellor came up with a similar media event, as we are now experiencing with the new chairman of the ÖVP. He would now have been his one-year anniversary, which he would not want to commit for understandable reasons – for what can he look back on after a year? What is the current account? – In fact, nothing, he failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In reality, he left a shredded pile, which is what the head of government delivered after a year. The government is in the end. What did he do? – Now I say quite honestly: nothing! Nothing really went on! Although there have been some templates, yes, the great litters have not come. We still have huge health problems, the labour market, the social sector – wherever we look, there are construction sites, nothing has gone on. You can't lean back now and say: We've had so great requests! – Yes, it’s true, little screws have been turned again and again; if it was good or bad, I’ll leave it now. To the care area: We haven't done anything in the care in recent years, nothing at all! One must honestly say that even the self-infated German Chancellor Kern now has to admit that last year he failed in a pitiful way that what he did is actually a zero – that is to be said honestly. [[Abg. Heinzl: Ah go, don't believe that!]] If I were friendly now, I could say: Of course, it's not easy with such a coalition partner. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern has opened the election campaign from the day of the Angelobung. He was praised a year ago and rose with a lot of noise, with a lot of staging into the election ring. This ended with the fact that in January he tried to present himself as a great maker by presenting a plan A – the German Chancellor Kern is not a maker, he is a creator! Then he tried to explain things as pizza boats and to show that he was a worker – by the way, he is not a workman, he is a workman. When you saw his hardest walk on television yesterday, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, it was almost a shock: two old men, an old Federal President – but a much older German Chancellor’s core. Now the whole situation in the government is escalated. Today he has informed us in his statement that he accepts that the new Vice Chancellor is called Brandstetter. This is also not unobtrusive: In the early morning he still plays the very big power store, there are also all the news full of it: The SPÖ is short!; and then he poses himself here at noon, with his cock pulled in like a little dwarf, to say: Well, we accept it as it is. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I think it would be more honest if this Federal Chancellor resigned. I think it would be more honest if the entire government were to withdraw and we would use an expert government until the elections. The problems in this country are enormous, they are everywhere – in every area: in education, in health, in the social field. These problems are no longer dealt with by this government. She hasn't made it in the last few years, and she won't do it in the next four months. These mutual explorations of support, outstretched hand, outstretched hand there – they won't work. We will all experience this again, we have experienced it so many times: “but now” – even now there is no “but now”. The right step would therefore be: Step back, clear the way for an expert government so that in the last few months, until the National Council election, anything can go further.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17800	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I can tell you that the Federal Chancellor has expressly apologised, he is in the house, but has just a meeting. Mr Wöginger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17824	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate tends to end, and for me it is already important to maintain a certain chronology. Of course, we now have a challenging situation, even here in Parliament, which is not a question. However, sand really came into play in January 2017, when Wels staged a speech and presented a Plan A, which of course has completely changed the political landscape as far as the subject matter is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] At that time it was the ÖVP that stretched out its hand and said: Once again, let us review our points in the government programme and make every effort to get these points done as best we can. I would like to say quite right to Mr Muchich: There has also been a lot of progress in recent times. Especially in the social field, for which both of us are responsible, we have implemented a number of points for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of people in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, you are talking about amendments up to the end – it is not that, the last comprehensive amendment we made in the social field, was the Home Victim Pension Act. We have called in two rounds with all the speakers and have come to all the points that the opposition wanted, and we have implemented ourselves. And then we decided on the amendment. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Let's be quiet down there!]] I just don't think that this picture is always drawn here: At the end of the day, we'll get caught up with this, and then it'll say: Fresh or dead! or voice to or do not agree! [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This is an unsavory policy, which has not lost anything here. Let us call things the way they are, by name, that belongs to them in politics, but let us not always mix anything with what citizens at home cannot imagine! This is unscrupulous and has actually lost nothing in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Mr Muchich and Mr Yılmaz.]] The second thing I would like to address is the following: Sebastian Kurzist was unanimously elected head of the ÖVP in the Federal Party Board last Sunday. He has already said quite clearly in advance that he is willing to take over this party, but he is not willing to continue this permanent election campaign that we have now had for months. A euro does not create alone, we say in the inner quarter – that's true, you can have a spark of self-criticism. However, it was a very clear, open and honest announcement by Sebastian KurzI don't want to continue in this government when I'm supposed to be the boss – it's up to the people to decide who should lead the country into the future! This is an honest announcement, and you can stand behind it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Steinbichler.]] The third thing expressed here, also by Minister Brandstetter and Klubobmann Lopatka, is that the ÖVP is ready to continue working on important topics – but in an orderly environment here in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I'm glad when Matthias Strolz comes out and says: Let's make a pact of responsibility together! I was in the house in 2008: Many of us at the time in this At night until 4 a.m. in the morning they also voted in favour, but in the end they actually regretted what was done there in the decisions. [[Abg. Schimanek: I've never experienced anything like that!]] There was a basar mentality here in the house at 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] I can only appeal here in the face of all the difficult situation that we are undoubtedly now in the house: The ÖVP is ready for cooperation, the ÖVP is ready to continue to work on important projects – but we do everything together to prevent such a bazaar from happening again! We are all in favour of this together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, we are still adopting the Integration Act – by the way, a matter of integration minister Kurz – the Labour Market Integration Act, € 175 million in addition to the Community Investment Act for communities as an incentive when they invest. In the past too, we have been able to adopt many important points, especially in the security field, here together. We are available, for example, to complete the employment bonus. The small ecostromnovelle is almost finished. The criminal law package is also in the house, up to the Foreign Rights Change Act with important content also in the field of security. We have ongoing discussions with regard to the Federal Procurement Act. These are very important measures in the field of rescue, the criteria for tendering. This is particularly important to me as Red Cross workers that we are still finding a solution because we should have been implementing the EU directive for some time now. For the cold progression also one word: Yes, it's the idea of us, the ÖVP, we've negotiated this into the package, that we want an automatic relief for those in whom the sluggish tax increase in a few years takes place again. We want to abolish this – but in such a way that people also feel it, and not that we need to have separate negotiations in Parliament again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minimum wage and working time are outsourced to the social partners, and I am an professing social partners. I therefore think it is good and right that the proposals should be drawn up there, because these are typical materials. I myself am long enough works council that I know that these two points in the social partners can be properly prepared. This is an advantage for us and no disadvantage if we get this into the house. Yeah, we're ready to do these things, too. With the free majority in Parliament, some in the opposition may say that is a great announcement. I can only appeal again: The EIA is ready to implement important projects, to work to play an active part in them and to decide on them here. However, I would ask all Members not to let go of a basar mentality here, I can only warn against this, but rather to ensure an orderly session process, and finally to bring about a decision that did not put us into a situation like that in 2008, when 3 billion euros were distributed within a few hours, which ultimately burdened the succeeding generations to the fullest extent. We do not want to do this by the ÖVP – but to continue working and to help important laws here to a majority, we are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17953	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17975	Mr President. High house! The last remarks here, particularly by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, have moved me to comment on this. She has addressed the care and she has addressed the work in the National Council. At this meeting of the National Council, on the one hand, it is discussed that the Government is making proposals and that there are few changes in the National Council, but on the other hand it has also said that if we are to be intensively involved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. That is why changes are needed to achieve better developments, and that is also bad. So how you do it is wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I do not believe this at all, but I believe it is important to do the best for Austria with a proper interaction between government and Parliament. In particular, I should like to point out the importance of caring – the honourable Member has mentioned it – that: This Federal Government has made intensive improvements in care! I would remind you that we introduced the care fund in 2011 – this care fund has been disbursed from the bank levy. That didn't pay the people, but the banks paid for it! We have thus relieved people, and above all we have relieved the women and the communities by having resources for care. We have the best care money in the world, even that is clear to say. I really liked one thing, I say it now with respect to my excoalition partner, if you can say it this way today: One of you has occurred in the Federal Council and has said that the care services in Austria are world leaders – and he is right! He's working on it, and I liked it very, very well. And we've taken the next steps. We have said that we want to strengthen the possibility of living independently at home. We want to give money to the communities and to the social assistance organisations. We have the 20 000 action to which I invite you to implement it in the next few days so that unemployed people over 50 have a chance to get the dignity back, and that people who need care will actually get it. We close the gap between the mobile assistance and the 24-hour care with the project Selbstant Leben Home. We have developed quality criteria that we implement within the framework of the care fund, and, I say quite clearly, we have introduced minimum standards when it comes to the fact that there is also qualified staff in care facilities at night. All of this is on the 1st. ==References====External links== Federal Chancellor Christian Kern has passed on Austria: He made a plan, plan A – A like Austria. It's about we want more, and we said we want an annual increase in the care allowance, that's what people deserve in care. That's what we're gonna do, and I'm inviting you to: Come on! One thing is still important, especially in care: There is currently the care rules, which means 100 percent inheritance tax for those who need care. I think that it is unbearable that we should remove some 100 percent inheritance tax while others who inherit more than one million euros pay nothing. This is not possible, as we need a solution in Austria, I say quite clearly: We need to abolish the care rules for the people! Social democracy and this federal government have done a great deal for the care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18036	Mr Dr Franz has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18057	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! The coalition break is a good opportunity to think about it and to ask what policy the Austrians want at all. I don't think so. Plan A is the right policy for Austria. Even if there are grains of truth that I already grant to the Federal Chancellor, nothing of it has been implemented. With Plan A, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has used the plan A as a tiger for the jump and has landed like a bedhead. Plan A has so far remained an empty cover. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] If we ask the Austrians what they want for a policy in Austria, we will get the very clear answer: The Austrians want a national policy – a national policy for Austria, a patriotic policy for the Austrian population, and the Austrians want 80 percent of a Christian-oriented policy under the leadership of the Australians. You have to say that quite clearly, and after that we have to judge. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] We are the National Council – and this has nothing to do with nationalism or anything else, but with the nation of Austria, which we are responsible for. We must return to that, and that is the core and must be the core of our policy, ladies and gentlemen. We must ask the government, especially the social democracy that dominates the government: What has happened for the Austrian families in family policy so far? What happened with regard to the Austrian children? What about mothers' salaries? What about the support of women who are in distress and remember to leave their children? Where is the package of measures already discussed and promised in the Kreisky Government under the timetable? All of this has not been implemented to this day, 40 years after the introduction of the deadline system – I still consider it a shame for Austria. What happened to health? What has happened to the health reform? So far, only new bodies, new laws, new decisions. We have introduced the idea of the Primary Health Care, which I do not consider to be worthy of implementation, because it does not fit Austria: There are other circumstances here than in other countries, where you have to deal with things quite differently, think things through quite differently. What has happened on the part of the Social Democracy for the Economics of Austria? We have heard from the Federal Chancellor that he is promoting the start-ups and that he wants to do a lot for the middle class. However, what has happened in concrete terms? Explain to me, dear members of the government, Mr. Federal Chancellor: What has happened specifically for the economy of Austria so far? – I think only negative things have happened. So I have observed it at least by the statements of my many patients who are active in the economy and in the middle class: There has hardly been anything in the direction of a positive development of the real economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Of course, those who continue to be supported are financial capitalism. Why? – Social democrats always have to organize the money of the other people, and of course they get it from the international banks and in Brussels. That's a fact. So what are we doing for the middle class, what are we doing for the nation of Austria, what are we doing for the culture of Austria? I invite you all – not just to invite you, I ask you all here in the House, including the government –: Let us finally make politics for Austria and do not make politics for the Orient! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18139	Mr Hagen has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18160	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The divorced vice-channer Mitterlehner once said something very true and repeated this again and again, namely: What are we to do with the electorate, so that we have just argued and brought nothing together? – I don’t think there’s much to add to it when I see how true these words really are. It's not been so long since Upper Austria got a new head of the ÖVP, I think Stelzer's name is him. This Mr. Landeshupt also repeated these words on television two or three weeks ago on "ZIB 2". He has said that he wants this government to work through to the end and achieve something – that is, words of people who need to know it, who even sit in the government, in the government coalition. Now I wonder what has changed in the meantime – one can say it has been a little more disputed, but in reality nothing has been done. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Federal Chancellor Kern said today: We – we from the government or we from the SPÖ – I do not know who he meant – now want to work with Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming here a little bit – may I be forgiven for the expression, with the word begins and with -arsh it stops. As a Member of Parliament, I think that if the government is so superior, I will say: Okay, we're gonna let them talk a little bit more now, the people's representatives, they're allowed to join a little bit, we're so gracious, so we'll be elected. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic seem to have not fully understood that we have been elected by the people, ladies and gentlemen here in the house, we are the law – not the government! Someone should write this to him a little bit behind their ears, you have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In fact, I would have wanted to say a lot more about this, but it is a shame to say almost every word. However, I would like to end my very brief speech on one point today. We have been listening to this sentence some time ago in an unscrupulous causa – you know what I am talking about, there has also been a committee of inquiry – which I would like to address briefly, let me put this at the heart of the matter very briefly. [[Rejoicing with the Stronach team.]] The sentence stated: Where was my performance? – Ladies and gentlemen, you should ask this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18227	Mr Wittmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18249	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! To conclude, there are only the following: In 1995, 2002, 2008 and today, the ÖVP has repeatedly been tempted to use a good time to announce the government. They are the only party who has repeatedly applied for new elections in these twenty years. You are the only ones who permanently believe somehow, Its power-political claim must be placed before the claim of employment for this Republic. Of course, I'm going to go into a little bit of distrust against Sobotka. Of course, Sobotka was one of those gentlemen who, for 10 months, simply made every effort to break down this government. First, you had to kill your own vice chancellor by letting him slip permanently by making him permanent promises that you didn't follow afterwards – you're ruining your own husband! That's all internal, in the party, because at least you're ruining yourself, but that's all the way to the Republic – but then at least you leave it in the ÖVP! Now the trickery begins outside: The Foreign Minister called the NEOS to see if he could not borrow a Minister of Economic Affairs. What kind of procedure is that?- Oh, my God! That's just more trickery! I also know why the then head of state Pröll wanted to get rid of Sobotka: because otherwise he would probably have done the same in Lower Austria as here! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] He was hesitant that Sobotka had gone into federal politics, he was healous that he had played the wild man there, he was heal-red! I'll give you the right to: He was one of the fundamental evils in this ÖVP because he was listening to this group in whose background was short, which wanted to destroy this government. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Rädler.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] For the callers from the ÖVP: You're old and not very well, so you won't be there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In fact, one has to say that the trickery has taken place, and that has not deserved this republic. However, we will firmly reject the motion for a reluctance against Sobotka, because we believe that this sympathizer, this sympath bearer, should be the new face of the new ÖVP – that's what you really shot down the bird! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The business card of Kurz will be Sobotka, and then good night for the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18345	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18366	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, you are watching us today! I think the Austrian and the Austrians who have now watched us have experienced exactly what the difficult situation of cooperation in this Parliament looks like. They are different parties, two parties have made up their way after the last election to try to find solutions with each other. However, we all know that in all parties there are people who like to be polemic, sometimes gross, some may even disrespectfully – and others with whom you can work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The worst thing is: At a time when one is in the opposition, the stronger the ones that are more unpleasant – and in a situation where there is a coalition, the stronger the ones with which one can cooperate. [[Abg. Krainer: Which group does Lopatka belong to?]] Now Mr Wittmann was here at the speaker's desk and has gone out as an opposition politician. I remember so well when he raised a vertebra in the blue-black time that I thought: Some people will be young again if they can be grotesque! It was really well played – not a word true, but so it is, so we know it. Guys, I can only tell you: We can really do something about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The point is this: We have had difficult years behind us, objectively difficult years, Europe has had a difficult time. The wave of refugees and migration, which has floated across Europe, has been just as problematic as the question of war in Ukraine and many other issues that have touched us around the euro. At this time, the government has brought something together with the very cooperative forces. The work was hard, the work was hard, it wasn't like she'd been following us – but something was done anyway! In fact, it is now the case that this coalition has clear signs of exploitation, we do not need to talk about it. There has been some success: The refugee question has been solved, the question of dealing with foreigners in Austria is partly clarified with the laws to be adopted today, and I think that we have done a lot well. Agriculture has had difficult times, a little could be helped. We have been able to develop hail insurance into a real risk insurance, we have been able to make the conditions semi-good for our farmers in disadvantaged areas. We do not see them as under pressure as in other European countries, although the situation is difficult enough. As far as the prices of milk, pig and beef are concerned, the signs are once again in hope. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] But we also know that we have experienced a lot in this area that was unpleasant. We had a Council of Ministers decision setting out in the most difficult time of agriculture that farmers would be given a quarterly social security payment. Unfortunately, then, forces in the coalition have prevailed, who have halved this decision and associated it with a de facto payment of €30 million for social security. This has done us very much, very hurt, and this is just part of the fact that the coalition is exhausted. We have progressed well on other points and with some points in Parliament. The hope lives when it comes to the eco electricity law: This is by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but without the necessary amendments, so that it can be decided here in plenary. The Greens have now expressed in their contributions and intentions that it seems possible to carry it out. I hope that we will continue to share this issue in half together. Other issues lie with the social partners, and I can report that we have good discussions there.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18413	Deputies! I am sorry to interrupt your remarks so that the short debate required can take place at 3 p.m. Unless you have more than one sentence to say, you could end your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18440	All right, then I'll say this one sentence. The social partners are working well, but I do not want to experience the way in which some people behave. As today Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I thought for this Parliament I was enjoying myself today – but it will pass again. I ask you: Let us stay such in the next few weeks! No one's doing anything good with it. That's important to me. Let's get together a little bit! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18472	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 1 on the agenda for a short debate. [[15:01:25]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18493	We are now entering a brief debate at the request of the honourable Member. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues to the Justice Committee for reporting on application 49/A concerning a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of up to 27. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reason. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18531	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three hours ago, our now no longer present Federal Chancellor Core promised that a lively phase of active parliamentaryism will begin in the next two months, in which there may also be new majority groups. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the NEOS]] He also promised a second – that was already on Sunday in the “press hour” – that he would like to apply for the Greens and NEOS, we both requested to accept for the opening of marriage for same-sex couples. [[Members of the Greens place signs with the inscriptions: “For equal rights 365 days a year” and “Similar love, equal rights” as well as rainbow flags on their feet.]] That is to say, there is actually the commitment of German Chancellor Kern when one brings together these two promises that the SPÖ supports the concern of NEOS and Greens at the opening of marriage for same-sex couples. That's a good news. It is gratifying that there is a first movement. Now some will ask: Are there any other concerns? – There are many concerns and many issues that we can discuss and decide here in the next few months. That's one of them. It is a subject where many wait for current conditions; and they are right to wait for current conditions, because the marriage definition from the ABGB is from 1811. Since 1811, our world has been revolutionized many times. One thing has survived: the marriage definition, which is as in 1811 and therefore simply no longer contemporary. This definition of marriage is also based on inseparability. Now we know that the divorce rate is 50 percent. We can or can't, we can do that. I'm sorry, but it's social reality. Similarly, it is social reality that there are same sex lovers and that even these same-sex lovers – in contrast to 1811 today – are not discriminated against. 1811 or 1930, 1950, 1960, these people were still threatened with criminal law. Today, the social feeling of God is another. Today, the same-sex love is recognized and tolerated, but is not legally equal, and this is precisely what this request is all about. What's the goal? – We have the goal that marriage offers modern legal framework conditions if two people want to take responsibility for each other – which is in itself a beautiful thing – but whoever and how to do this is supposed to be the autonomy of those concerned. The opening of the marriage is not what is discussed here for the first time as an experiment, but there are many countries in Europe, especially in Western Europe, where the opening of marriage for same-sex couples is a reality today. Of course, we are thinking of the Scandinavian countries, which are often the leaders of social policy. But it's not just Scandinavia. It is also Spain, a country that is considered rather Catholic, it is Ireland, which is considered a very Catholic country, it is the Benelux states, it is France, it is Portugal, it is England. There are many countries that have gone this way, and there have already been conservatives – and here I look into the ranks of the ÖVP – that way. Cameron is not a model of European politics, because he is the father of Brexit and the British will pay the price, but in connection with the same-sex marriage Cameron said: Because I'm more conservative, I'm not against it, but for the opening of marriage for the same sex lovers. - Quote. He says that it is a value for him if two people want to take responsibility for each other. I don't want to appreciate whether they do it with or without marriage. The Greens probably have a different tradition, and there are many who say to us that a community of life does, too, but that is nothing where the state is supposed to interfere. Those concerned should be able to decide: Do we want to choose the legal framework of marriage or do we want to live in a community of life? This must not depend on which sexes are concerned, and this must not be based on discrimination. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] This is rightly so and has long been in line with what the population thinks. There are surveys in Austria that clearly confirm: The majority of Austrians are for the opening of marriage for same-sex couples. The last survey resulted in 61 percent. This is an overwhelming majority, which is far beyond the political reality in this House. I mean, we're going to vote and see that today, but our society is more than many party representatives sitting here. Our society says: Let us leave to those concerned how they want to take responsibility with each other, but let us give them the legal framework for this. In this sense: In order to be able to vote on this request, it is necessary to adopt today's deadline for a very simple reason: The Committee can block the request, it is not necessary to vote in favour of the Committee's Rules of Procedure, so that the request can be kept in the waiting loop. However, if we decide today on a proposal for a deadline – in particular the SPÖ – if the SPÖ fulfils the commitments of Federal Chancellor Kern, then today we can take a first step so that we can in June or July. Take the second step and join us in those countries that have long opened marriage to same-sex couples, so that just a piece of normality and reality is legally anchored in our society, no more and no less. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18625	Mr Jarolim is next spoken. You have 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18670	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I can agree with what has just been notified, a hundred percent – no question at all. However, I would also like to stress: There was also an agreement on the part of the Vienna organization – colleague Krainer has just informed me about it – this morning in the same direction, namely towards marriage for same-sex couples. That is why I think we should at least agree to this deadline. I have also heard that the Foreign Minister should have informed his deputy new Vice-Cancellor that this deadline should be agreed, because it is only a matter of keeping these decision-making areas open. I must say, of course, that we adhere to agreements that have been reached, but at times when it is not even clear how the agreements are supposed to look, and still after such strong signals – I must say, Minister Brandstetter has already mentioned several times in the committee, not in the public, but in the committee, that this is in his mind – really a small step forward in a democratic rule of law, as is the case internationally. To that end, I can only agree with all that has been said here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Krainer, with the greens as well as the agg. Scherak.]] – Thank you for the applause of the Greens and Mr Krainer. They will agree that we must not be afraid that two people like each other and therefore take responsibility for the state. I think we should take this step. I assume that the Federal Minister for Justice will appear in any way, probably as the face of Mr. Foreign Minister, and will tell us that he is joining this. That's what I'm really excited about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18713	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18734	Madam President. Appreciate fellow citizens! High house! I understand the opposition's approach to using this platform now to bring things that we have discussed and discussed last year to the fore and reheat them. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Last year, in the Committee on Justice, we decided on very significant changes in the right to stand up. [[Abg. Kogler: Mr Kurz does not disturb the platform!]] At the time, we agreed not only to the marriage at the office, but also to the conclusion of the registered partnerships at the stand office. We have also agreed that the subject of the family name will be the subject of the human status law in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are always at our disposal for good material discussions, but then also at the right time and not now when it comes to discussing 17 points in the government, where there are very important points for Austria, which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and our future party observer Sebastian Kurztsday have presented. [[Abg. Loacker: In 4050!]] [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not wipe this out of the table! There are very important points here. We have written points into the government programme in January and we would like to try to complete them in detail by autumn and indeed to give way to serious decision-making by autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! You all know me from the Justice Committee, and you know that there will be a detailed, objective and proper discussion on issues we are dealing with and which we are dealing with, without stress, without hustle and bustle. [[Abg. Kogler: You push the government and ask the others not to have any stress!]] I would like to discuss a prepared topic, such as the cumulation principle, which is urgently abolished, in order to give Austria's economy a fair chance. This cumulation principle has the effect of punishing entrepreneurs several times in the event of the same offences. A punishment, a crime, that must be the goal of reducing the level of punishment in order to strengthen the economic location accordingly. Or: We will discuss part of the criminal law package in the Committee on Justice, namely the reform of the Security Police Act in the areas where we need things to prevent violence and harm to Austrian citizens, namely that, if we need video material, it will be issued in order to better conduct prosecution, or the registration system. Ladies and gentlemen, the points that have already been mentioned on the morning – like the increase in the research premium, the educational reform, for us a very important topic, the payment of new and sick pay for self-employed – and also the issues I have just mentioned, such as reform of the security police law, the abolition of cold progression or the abolition of the cumulation principle, which are the points we would like to discuss with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18823	Next, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18844	Madam President. High house! I see there in front of this sign “Similar Love, Same Rights” that the Greens have set up, only there is a difference. The Greens as a alleged ecological movement forget one: How do you get to children? You don't have a problem with that. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] Mr Pirklhuber, because you're just talking about agriculture: You probably also believe that there is a calf when you put two bulls in the stable next to each other – I have no idea. But there are enough people who still know, unlike you. No, we can bring it down to another, really objective level, Mr Pirklhuber. I will read to you the old provision of § 44 ABGB. [[Abg. Brosz: Keep going! That'll be a YouTube hit!]] – If you read the ABGB? I think that's gonna be a YouTube hit! You can pull that in as an endless loop! I quote: “The family relationships are established by the marriage contract. In the marriage treaty, Swey persons of different sex legally declare their will to live in indistinguishable communion, to bear children, to raise them, and to afford each other’. So far, so good. There may be freedoms that you can take in a sexual way, all wonderful as long as it doesn't come into social matters. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But what do you want literally? What do you want now? It says: “In a marriage contract, two persons declare their will to assist each other comprehensively and in partnership with each other on the basis of a trust relationship and to establish their legal relationship with that law.” I don't read anything about sexual partnership or anything else. This opens the door of the word of the law. I don't have any siblings, but if, for example, I had a brother or a sister, we would be persons with a trust bond. I actually have a commitment to trust with parents, with children, with siblings, and we have the “will to assist each other comprehensively and in partnership [...]”. That's what's going on with the choice of words. In addition, your request states: “and make their legal relationship according to this law. ” That means you'll open up more than you actually want to achieve. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] – Well, Mr Oellinger, my God, some things really really set the perspective on reality, as you imagine the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18899	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18926	Madam President. Dear spectators! [[The speaker placed a rainbow flag on the speaker's desk.]] One may stand for marriage, as one wants, and there are very, very many reasons why one wants to marry and make a marriage – that may be out of love, that may be because one has common children, that may be because the union through the covenant of Marriage wants to be legally guaranteed, because it is precisely because of the fact that the partnership, partners or partners in this case, if it is finally possible to grant more rights, it may also be because one wants to celebrate a big feast for oneself, after having children or not, it may be that one wants to make the union in the church after that or not, there are many forms – but there is no country in the world other than Austria that allows it to establish a family, adopt children, receive seed donations, have maternity recognition while at the same time the marriage is forbidden. Austria is the only country in the world where it is. I think that's kind of schizophrenic. I think that many in the ÖVP now see this as well. I do not expect colleagues in the FPÖ, whose outlook is really retro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] You know there are a lot of homosexual people, and I suppose there are men in your circle of friends in your families who love men and women who love women. Don't tell me there's no such thing in your world! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] Admit a social reality! Admit it as it did 50,000 people in Austria! 50 000 people have signed the petition that has been brought into Parliament. They are mostly the ones who see what the people want. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The people, not 50,000! Except for your population policy!]] I assume that the Austrians are further on this question than you do that the Austrians have long seen that in their families, in their circle of friends, people simply want to make the union of marriage. I think it's just a matter of time. We finally enforced the civil marriage. First it was the partnership without a binding mark, now the partners may finally have a line between their names if they have a double name. Then they were not allowed to marry at the office, but in any other magistrate rooms, now they are finally allowed to marry at the office. The last step to be taken is that we should finally have this partnership. Let marriage be called marriage, and by that name “marriage ” also grant corresponding rights to those who want to enter this covenant. Please give yourself a back in 2017 in the current situation in Parliament, support in the ÖVP – in part, as I know, you have long supported this approach – for that! In contrast to the many decisions already mentioned today concerning this famous night in September 2008, in which many decisions were made, marriage costs exactly nothing for everyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps it costs couples and families a lot, but finally deciding this law costs nothing, but it brings a lot of people in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I ask you to use this moment and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19003	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19025	Madam President. - Yes, I'd like to leave the fändderl. [[Abg. Kogler: They leave the fähnderl standing!]] I would also rather address my comments to the EIA because the SPÖ has a clear opinion on itself and only needs to support the deadline proposal here. I don't even try it at the FPÖ. I remember when Mr. Zanger had panicic fear that I could stand in front of him with a brawler in the future. I can't take those fears, so I won't try. [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] But I want to read out exactly the quote that Albert Steinhauser has brought, and this is of course explicitly addressed to the ÖVP: Conservatives believe in the bonds that hold us together. Society is stronger when we swear a little solemnly. I do not support the gay marriage, although I am a conservative, I support the gay marriage because I am a conservative. – If you have listened carefully, you know that this does not come from me, of course, because I am a liberal, not a conservative. It comes from David Cameron, a very conservative from Great Britain, who has clearly said this. Now we have NEOS, the Greens and the SPÖs a concern, which by the way also shares 61 percent of the Austrians, namely that there should finally be the possibility for same-sex couples to marry. The tension is yes, that is not only SPÖ, NEOS and Greens, but also the JVP Vienna, as I have just read, which has decided on a national day that it is for the complete equality of homosexual partnerships, and complete equality means, of course, that civil society is opened up. This is so exciting today, because at least my knowledge Foreign Minister Sebastian For years now, President of the JVP Vienna was now the chairman of the JVP in general, and since the latest he has soon had a right of entry. It would, of course, be possible for him to use this right of access and to intervene with the ÖVP once. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Now they have a stress!]] Now, of course, I know that there are people at the ÖVP who would probably not agree to this. I know my colleagues Vavrik very well. He has therefore changed the pages because, among other things, he believes that homosexual partnerships should not be equated. But there are also people in the ÖVP who are a little more modern, for example Federal Minister Rupprechter, who has repeatedly sent signals that he is more liberal in this respect, and family minister Karmasin, whom I now also assume that she is a little more liberal. Commissioner Hahn has once expressed his views on this matter. I believe that even Noch-Vizekanzler Mitterlehner will probably be a bit more liberal, and I also believe that Foreign Minister will be shorter liberal. That is why it would be interesting, in the sense of living parliamentaryism and the free mandate addressed today, to test how many there are in the ÖVP, which were already in the 21st century. Arrived in the 20th century and are for a liberal, modern Austria, where people are no longer discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. I brought you a little advice game for decision-making, which can always be solved on the Internet. I don't know if you know it. For those who do not know: You can play with me now. But I'm going to take the answers right away, so it's easier. [[Abg. Schönegger: That's not funny at all!]] This is totally funny, Mr Schönegger. So first of all: What happens when homosexuals marry? – First opportunity to reply: It comes to a second deluge. I'm telling you, it's not. That's where you need it. Don't worry about it. The second answer is: The marriages of more heterosexual couples were destroyed. By the way, that's not the way it is. That doesn't happen either. [[Abg. Schönegger: That's not funny either!]] Third possibility of reply: The tax losses are driving Austria into the ruins. I don't think that's gonna happen either. Fourth possibility: It appears – funnyly – a pink glistening horn that eats children. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How seriously do you actually take this inside?]] I'm telling you, even the pink glitzereinhorn doesn't appear, and it doesn't eat children at all. There is one thing that really happens, namely that homosexuals can marry. This is the only thing that happens when we finally abolish this discrimination, so you really don't have to be afraid of it, because it doesn't threaten the traditional family or have any other negative consequences. I think it would be time for us to take a sensible step here in Parliament. I believe that the modern, new People's Party – List Kurz has very likely similar views. It would really be time for you to finally follow this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19133	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Steinhauser, colleagues, the Legal Committee for Reporting on application 49/A concerning a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of time until 27. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Kogler: Red, let the glow be!]] [[15:26:04]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19172	This brings us back to the negotiations on agenda item 1. Mr Steinbichler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19196	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Wöginger, this is very interesting: At the beginning of your speech, you praised the government work and said what went on, and in the explanation that we were re-electing, you said, because the new star doesn't want to continue. – Now I don't know: Was swung or worked? That's the contradiction in itself, you like to judge it yourself. One thing I can say, however, because many arguments have already been made today. When I look at Germany – Austria in the international comparison, the ranking, how interesting our location has become as an economic location, I see, Germany is in place 9 and Austria due to the high bureaucracy, due to the high additional wage costs at number 109. If I may sum up a few points of discussion: We must not create a two-class society for our citizens, neither in the medical field nor in the food sector. I think it's just irresponsible what arises when you start splitting there. Unfortunately, we know how the social fabric develops in our state, and that is the result of the work of this government. I should also like to make it clear that this policy on the abolition of compulsory memberships, the aggregation of social security funds, is: There are so many ways to save money when you finally implement the announced reforms and do them. I'm already with my colleague Schultes – that's wonderful! –: If I am in the mighty position that I am the President of the Chamber of Agriculture of Lower Austria, rich, the president of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture, and then here regret the state of the farmers, that is – I have to say here – also the evaluation of our own work. Just think about it! To have their own members write letters of readers that they are for a clear food label, one should look at where the products come from and one must necessarily do something that domestic products are processed but constantly vote against food labelling, to vote in favour of Polish pigs, on the Czech and Hungarian bulls of the Austrian AT stamps, is not worthy of a president. These are the realities we are talking about, these are the abuses that need to be stopped. I am of the opinion – the speaking time is short –: We don't need general powers, not at all. I could also continue with family policy, with the dental clamps and with the four years – family party ÖVP – accounting time for pensions of mothers. We do not in any way, Mr Schultes, I can clearly say this – old wine in new hoses. We don't need general powers. What we need in Austria, what our citizens need, is a new policy according to the Swiss model: The people are the boss, and the human being is at the centre. I am convinced that this is the future, and according to these principles a new policy must work.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19245	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19266	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! It is certainly not an ordinary time, it is certainly not the most normal topics, but I have made a final statement because I have listened carefully to what many previous speakers have said. Let me briefly raise the following points with regard to the Committee of Inquiry: I believe we have held together, and I have found that the Minister of State for Defence and Sport has done very openly, very quickly and very transparently everything that can be imagined as a parliament or as a parliamentarian. I believe that, in a reasonable period of time – and it would not have happened at all at all – we Members have created all the conditions in order to ensure that this committee of inquiry is able to carry out its tasks, which is of great interest not only from the point of view of politics but also from the point of view of the public. But I mean, ladies and gentlemen, we have to be careful about one thing – for which I am not at my disposal, I say it is the same thing that one starts in the middle of the committee of inquiry to make an election campaign –: I stick to it: a clear yes with all the strength to clarify, but no election stories within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry, we do not need that either. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – I say this in general, Mrs. Colleague. I say that clearly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] However, I do not think anything about it – and we are constantly talking about the election date – and we have the responsibility, through electoral rhetoric, of the judicial system. to hinder. We all agreed that we let justice work, that has its job, we have ours. It is always very difficult to do so together anyway. I would just like to say a clear word once again – we all have done so, so many have said what we are going to do about the open points – and point out how dangerous these issues are and what can be done with them. However, I would also like to make it clear that, I believe, the previous discussions until a few hours or before the weekend, whether they were sensitive or not – I am thinking only of the debates with justice, some of you were there – were correct and transparent. In reality, everything was in the sense of the Enlightenment and in the sense of the Committee. I would therefore ask that, if we want to remain objective, we should keep this issue out of all the election debates, that we should not hinder justice and that we should see that in the remaining time we can make as much information as possible. I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so on this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19326	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19348	Ladies and gentlemen! It's almost absurd: An interior minister Sobotka from ÖVP torpeded for weeks the government work, the Clubobmann Lopatka sabotages government work for months, and then the freshly-chosen ÖVP-Obmann turns himself up and says: [[Call to the ÖVP: It wasn't...!]] This spectacle in the government is no longer reasonable to voters, so it must be re-elected! – This is a chuzpe looking for any comparison. That's unique. How stupid do you think the voters are? [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Also this unworthy mess, who becomes vice chancellors: In the end, it is obvious that the only person in the Federal Government who does not want an ÖVP party book, because no EDP politician in this government still wants to assume responsibility. The crucial question will be: Is this new People's Party, which is not so new, a large-scale label gap that is preoccupied with a citizen's movement, but in reality the old content of the ÖVP, or is the whole really a new set-up? [[Abg. Kogler: I think that's more short!]] The question of whether interference such as Sobotka and Lopatka is still present in this new ÖVP will answer whether this is really a start or whether the ÖVP is just putting on new clothes. - I guess second. But even more exciting will be the question of how German Chancellor Kern and SPÖ deal with the Green Party's mistrust for the Minister of the Interior Sobotka. Interior Minister Sobotka says to the chancellor, he's a failure, for him the train left. We know all of that. This is opposition rhetoric, only that this opposition politician is in the Federal Government. The question is how long the SPÖ can be expected to have an opposition politician of the ÖVP in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Höbart: It doesn't matter anyway!]] The double game, which short, Lopatka and Sobotka operate, is obvious. This piece, which is listed there, knows a teacher, and this teacher is called Wolfgang Schüssel. The apprentice in this piece is Sebastian Kurz, and the Ge-cell is the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] For the fourth time in the Republic, Altkanzler Schüssel has managed to blow up a government of power-political calcula. Always has the same manuscript: A power poker will begin, a government will be driven into the crisis, and then new elections will be held. The first time, it's over 20 years ago, was 1995: Cushion will be ÖVP partyman, as well as short. The first thing he does is to blow the government into the air within half a year, and there are new elections. He lost the game back then. 2002, in coalition with the Freedom Party: There is a crisis in the Freedom Party. Chancellor's bowl benefits from the favor of the hour, the FPÖ catches in full weakness, power culprit, there are new elections. This time it went out. But that wasn't the last time. I remember 2008, then Kubobmann was: The ÖVP did not want to deal with the defeat in 2006 and believed that it could turn the wheel back of time. Molterer, prescribing by bowl, has spoken the meaningful words: “It’s enough!” and there have been new elections again. The power-political calculation was clear: New elections for the ÖVP to come to power. It didn't go out. The handwriting pads is visible with a free eye. This newly presented party is controlled by an ÖVP old chancellor, and this new federal partyobmann Kurz is the apprentice of this old chancellor Schüssel. [[Abg. Rädler: We're not at Dancing Stars!]] This is political style, it has nothing to do with a new set-up. You're the old ÖVP as we've known it for 20, 25 years. If there is a chance, then there will be poker, even at the expense of this republic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But the question is: What do the SPÖ delegates do? Let them offer this by the ÖVP, or do they stand an example that one does not tolerate an opposition politician of the ÖVP in the government? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] How far does the coalition discipline of SPÖ go? Does SPÖ's coalition discipline go beyond the stock of a coalition? It would be absurd if one were to conduct coalition discipline, although the coalition had long since expired. It has a general preventive effect when it becomes clear that one does not accept a behavior like that of Minister of the Interior Sobotka, who deliberately sabotaged the government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: There should be an active parliamentarianism. This active parliamentaryism also includes taking the right to express whether you trust someone or not, and I assume your confidence in this Minister of the Interior should actually end today. I'm seeking approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19448	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19469	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting that Mr Steinhauser, on behalf of the Green Democrats, is trying to tell us how democratic processes have ended. Mr Steinhauser, I think you were even chairman of the Green Youth once if I am not fooled. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is really remarkable, because you are the ones who, when criticism comes from their own youth organization, simply throw it out. This is the difference between us: With us, the officers of the Young ÖVP Federal Party, while you throw out yours. This is the difference between us, Mr Steinhauser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're exposed, and there's nothing you need to tell us about label flaws. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] You, who always talk about basic democracy and the integration of all, just do the opposite. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Our Federal Party, the Foreign Minister, has expressed what many have been thinking for a long time and has said that this cannot continue. And there, I think, one can certainly agree with him. For, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was the colleague Muchich who said today: It's actually a shame to say something bad about what's going on. – I share this opinion, you shouldn’t do that. Of course, this federal government and this coalition have also done a lot of things, but no one will deny that you and we would probably have expected more in some areas. There are some points that are still open, as it were, in the pipeline, which we want to complete and decide. But, of course, there are also areas in which you are likely to have been difficult on account of your ideological orientation as well as on the basis of our access, there are some topics. I am thinking about the abolition of cold progression. It was indeed a success to say in the course of the tax reform: We reduce the input tax rate from 36 to 25 percent. We have noticed that this has worked immediately and has flown into consumption. This generated economic growth, thus creating jobs. Economic growth is currently moving towards the 2%. And the economics doctrine, as it were, says: If you have a growth of about 2% in the economy, the labour market is also turning. So through the discharge of citizens we generate growth and employment. [[Abg. Kogler: This depends on the area in which growth takes place!]] In the debate on the cold progression, we say: We actually want an automatic! We want to automatically return what inflation takes on every citizen who pays taxes a year. But you want to use this again to redistribute it. And I say quite clearly: We don't want that! We want to give back to citizens what they eat away from inflation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's just one point on which it's a sort of direction decision in this election debate. [[Abg. Krainer: Why did you sign it?]] I am also very pleased to say that the Federal Chancellor has accepted the proposal of our Federal Party Minister Sebastian Kurzheute and has accepted Mr. Wolfgang Brandstetter as Vice Chancellor, because it must also be perfectly clear that in a coalition it is the respective party that nominated its top officials. [[Abg. Krainer: Why did you sign it?]] [[Abg. Kogler: Brandstetter doesn't look at the arsons!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Sobotka!]] It can't be that, so to speak, one party is ruling into the other. This is unacceptable, and I am glad that there has been an agreement today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want the agreement to be respected until the elections. We are not going to pass the SPÖ here in plenary, but of course this is not a one-way road, ladies and gentlemen. I come to the point raised by Mr Steinhauser: A request for distrust was filed by the liberals against the entire federal government, one against the Minister of the Interior of the Greens. I have to say: You're a little late. It is clear that new elections are taking place anyway. The government has agreed to work this out in the coming months. Now to come with a distrust proposal is a really easy-to-see game. Mr Steinhauser, I think, of course, we can accuse the Minister of the Interior of course of criticizing the Federal Chancellor in a dynamic way, but at the same time you would have to make a distrust proposal against a number of social-democratic ministers, because they have also very strongly criticized the Foreign Minister. To be honest, it must be possible to criticize each other in the political debate. A mistrust is in itself a very sharp parliamentary weapon. I mean, you're suffocating this important parliamentary weapon by subtracting this show, now that the election date is fixed. Well, since the government partners have said they're going separate ways, you come with a mistrust request. [[Abg. Kogler: It is about hygiene on the government bank!]] If you would use the objective achievements of the Minister of the Interior and take a look at the budget, you would see that this Federal Minister has fought for a higher security budget: 3,5 billion €, a plus of 14.6 percent this year, ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Minister has done his job well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world despite rising numbers of immigration that we have seen in the last two years. This is the job of the Minister of the Interior, and it is not about whether he once criticized the Federal Chancellor or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we will not, of course, vote in favour of the motion for a reluctance against the Minister of the Interior, and we will not, of course, give our assent to the motion for a reluctance against the entire federal government. And I think we should now, as it is stated that soon it will be elected, lead the parliamentary debate in a proper way and not try to make a few simple points through this cheap acting.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19637	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I also expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glavisch-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior, 'Yes', those who vote against to put 'No' vote in the mood. I'm trying to make sure you take a vote. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19715	The vote is now over. I would ask the House staff to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19756	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 30, ‘No’ votes: 145. [[See correction by President Head p. 219.]] The request for distrust is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aslan; Bernhard, Brosz, Brunner; Double farmer; Glavischig-Piesczek; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Light pickers, loackers; Maurer, Moser, Mückstein; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Honey, Schelhorn, Scherak, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinhauser, Strolz; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill; Zinggl. With ‘No’ the Members voted (corrected version): Amon Werner, Angerer, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Brückl, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, Doppler, perforation; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz, Fuchs; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Klug, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kumpitsch, Kuntzl; Lasar, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lintl, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schabhüttl, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmijdenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schrangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strache, Strasser; Tamandl, Themessl, Girls, By; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19949	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. I must also draw your attention to the fact that the votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members, as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government, to vote yes, to vote against, to vote against, to vote against, and to make sure that it is just a vote. I now ask Mr Zanger to begin with the name call. This time too, Mr Buchmayr will replace you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20018	The vote will end. I call on the officials of the House to carry out the voting. To this end, the session will be adjourned again. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20061	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 169; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 47, No votes: 122. The request for distrust is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bernhard, Bösch, Brückl; Deimek, Dietrich, double farmer; Fuchs; port plotter, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, moucher; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Kumpitsch; Lasar, Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schimanek, Schrangl, Steger, Brickbichler, strache, straw; themesl; Worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, Doppler, perforation; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klug, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernoster, kilnauer, oillinger, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Schidtenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, jewelry beater, Schönegger, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20240	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues, on: Redesign of business regulations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. [[16:10:21]] 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2042/A(E) by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Harald Stefan, Dieter Brosz, MSc, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, Christoph Hagen, colleagues with regard to increased participation of citizens already in the run-up to the parliamentary legislative process – an implementation step of the results of the committee of inquiry “Strengthening democracy in Austria” (1622 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20299	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wittmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20328	Madam President. High house! In order to implement the results of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on direct democracy, a unanimous resolution has been adopted. It's about two projects we're planning. One is the extended review procedure. The extended review process should be that there is a very general statement on the Government's draft, which is presented on Parliament's homepage. Everyone may not comment on the review procedure, if he believes that he has an opinion on it or that he wants to give an opinion. This opinion can also be supported by others, and then the competent minister, whose legislative projects were part of this extended review, must refer to which parts of this review he has or has not included in the project. The Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media is responsible for the implementation. The second part concerns crowdsourcing. There are examples for crowdsourcing in Croatia and Finland. We agreed more on the Finnish model. It is about putting a very general theme, such as increasing road safety, on a website and then developing a legislative project with citizens and professionals. This means that citizens can be involved in the preliminary process of a legislative project. Finally, a legislative project will be developed from the opinions and measures put in place there. This means that citizens can identify more with the project and are eventually picked up in the preliminary process of a law, are invited to take an interest and to express their opinion. I believe that these are the right steps we can take to further develop this Parliament. In spite of the turbulent times, it is still possible to take unanimous decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20358	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20380	Thank you, Madam President. – First of all, I would like to welcome the Young People's Party Zwettl at the Visitor's Gallery about Angela Fichtinger's special desire. Welcome! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My young listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! We are entering with this novelle new country, and I am grateful for the fact that we will continue to do parliamentary work on this very day, on which we are not actually in the foreground of the common position, but in the debates we are more in the foreground of the separation, on this point, and hopefully we will continue to implement a six-party agreement. We are entering a new country in the sense that we should for the first time include topics which have never been able to be included, or groups that have not been able to comment in a review process. What's that supposed to mean? – This is precisely what we have to do with special areas that have not yet been represented, whether in a corresponding chamber or in a NGOs, because it has only affected a special area. What, for example, are we thinking about? . For example, in the field of road safety, we are thinking of certain motor vehicles used in forestry, which need a very special equipment to ensure that work can be carried out. If the Austrian Power Driving Act does not take due account of this, these groups will be given the opportunity to initiate this process. Of course, with the support of a ministry, one will get expert opinions on this. It will be evaluated, and then it will be decided whether a new change of law is needed for these groups. This is the so-called Finnish model we want to try to install. We are aware that this is not likely to be the locust for six million people in Austria, but it will be a very important point for those interested in it, as they can contribute more. More participation is part of what we want. It is important for democracy that more people can get involved. In this sense: Live Democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20431	Next speaker: Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20452	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Already for a thousandth time, direct democracy is on the agenda and therefore the subject of this Parliament. This time in the form of a joint request from all parties, including the FPÖ. However, contrary to the opinions of my two previous speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP, this is anything but a success for the FPÖ. On the contrary! If one reads through the heading of the application, it refers to the greater involvement of citizens. However, more appropriate would be: Sad completion of one of the longest and largest mogel packs of SPÖ and ÖVP; one of many by the way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already heard of some of them today, and this is also seamlessly included in the long series of mogel packs of recent years: starting from the border fence, the so-called “tunnel with side parts” to the upper part, to Plan A and to the 100th restart. One mogel pack after another! To be honest, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you would have mentioned the request: Direct democracy – most of what we are willing to do, but least what can still be sold as a reform. At least that would have been an honest approach, that would be the appropriate headline! Sell from: This fits quite the SPÖ core principle that politics is 95 percent staging. However, I believe that he has still suppressed it, because in reality it is already approaching the 99 percent in direct democracy. 99 percent staging, all big show. 1 per cent I agree with this request, 1 per cent actually has content, the rest, as I have said, once again a mogel pack. I can still remember exactly the 2013 National Council election campaign, and that will be the same for some Austrians. At that time, direct democracy was the promise of election. Each party had a complete concept, had demands, had ideas, everyone wanted more participation of the population in the form of real direct democracy. There was only one question to be answered. a number, i.e. only one question of fine-tuning. It was like the Amen in prayer that this came to an end. And after the election there was nothing to see. After the election, it was only once again that there had to be a long and broad discussion about direct democracy. So a survey committee was set up, there was again for months a discussion with countless experts on all possible areas of direct democracy. There were even eight citizens invited to give them the right to speak in order to make citizens' participation even more plausible. Today, years later, only this request can be seen. That, ladies and gentlemen, is really not enough. An application in which crowdsourcing is inside – we have already heard it – and an improvement in the review process, which is quite useful things, that is not a question, and that is why we also insist on this request. However, as has been said, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, these were only marginal issues; Cross-border issues that have been strangled by the side, that is, far away from genuine direct democracy. Why are we still on this request? – Simple: Because we are certainly never going to oppose an improvement in the participation of citizens, it may also be so small! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will always be committed to greater citizens' participation. We will always, and we will do so in the future, to ensure that there is at last a three-stage national legislation, a popular initiative with a mandatory referendum, if Parliament does not vote in the sense of the initiative, with lower obstacles, with a veto referendum. We want the population to be able to vote on everything that Parliament can do here. In short: We want real direct democracy according to the Swiss model. Switzerland has been proving for years that parliamentary democracy, combined with strong direct democracy, can work perfectly, that this does not mean a weakening of Parliament, but a strengthening of Parliament. It means a greater interest, greater information and real satisfaction of the population with the laws. It also means, above all, a much better and failed policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I know – and this is already clear – why you do not want all of this from SPÖ and ÖVP: because you know exactly that all your decisions are no longer majority-able there in the population for a long time, that the population would have drawn the line for a long time with real participation in your processes of recent years, whether in asylum policy, in education, in integration, in tax and so on. Just because you know that, you are so vehement opponents of direct democracy. But what is the problem with that? – The problem is that you cannot simply tell us why you are against it because you are naturally unpopular; you cannot say that you are against direct democracy. What to do You instead? . They submit this request as a result of the Committee of Inquiry and act as if – and, as has been said, as such. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! You cannot prevent a direct democratic decision on your own: This is the next election. This one is coming earlier than thought. That is, ladies and gentlemen: Don't worry, direct democracy will come! First, the population will take away your power directly democratically, and we will ensure that it retains it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20538	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20561	Thank you, Madam President. - Maybe we'll take things apart again. There has been a comprehensive Committee of Inquiry last year, which has dealt with two sub-areas, namely, direct democracy and, on the other hand, improvements in the participation process in Parliament itself. It makes sense to think about both things. The end of this multi-acting committee of inquiry was not very encouraging – that is true – because a model for direct democracy has already been buried there and then by the government parties, although there had already been a compromise in the past, has been removed. In the end, there has been a joint request from Greens and NEOS, a very comprehensive about improvements also in the parliamentary process, the so-called State of the Art, of what one would do in Europe in exemplary parliaments. The government parties were not there either. There was a relatively thin joint request from SPÖ and ÖVP. It has then been introduced, decided in the House and, in fact, approved by a majority decision for implementation. Now there is something interesting, because apart from the fact that direct democracy has not found a place, only parts of what SPÖ and ÖVP had actually granted and decided on at the time are now realized. So you cannot even rely on the fact that what is decided here by two parties will be implemented. Some things are coming now, that's this little part we've got today. Crowdsourcing in the sense of citizens' participation in legislation in the run-up is something that has already been and has led to good participation in Scandinavian countries. I also think it is an important step to improve review procedures, in a number of ways, but above all in a substantial additional moment, that changes must also be declared and justified in accordance with the review procedure. This is what I imagine in this whole school package now very interesting, which will then be all about changes coming in. But that shows that a ministry can't simply pull things out and give things in – fresh or dead! – but rather a justification for change. I think that this is an important step for the participation and opportunity of citizens to understand legislative processes. We have also negotiated other things that are not yet coming, which may or may not be more difficult to implement due to the end of this federal government: Text of resolution adopted by Parliament: Minutes of vote: Minutes of vote: Minutes of vote: Minutes of vote In this House, with an improved treatment, with a better opportunity for those who have made it possible to participate here as well. That's still up. There is one point on which this second part has failed at the moment. This is particularly interesting because the government parties already decided on it at the time: There will be annual reports by the members of the government in Parliament on the work projects next year. If you look at what is happening at the moment, that would be a real improvement. Interestingly, there has been an agreement with Mr Gerstl and also with Mr Wittmann. It is difficult to find a solution to this problem. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. No, that's not how it is! Once a year to say what we want to do is far too complicated, much too much binding, that is not possible. Originally, this was decided before this new government programme – whenever it was exactly, the time is now rather fast-lived – was decided, where even point-exactly it was inconceivable: What are we doing in May, what are we doing in April, what are we doing in June?, by the way, with decisions that actually concern the government, but rather the house here, so far more largely than what the government parties have decided. Nevertheless, there is a veto. Propos Veto: The vice chancellor, no, not vice chancellor, the top candidate In short, it seems that also included his veto and said: No, we can't come, we don't want to. So one refuses to have government members here once a year in a public committee explain what the government's work programme is. This is obviously new politics, that is the refusal. It is still supposed to be opaque, there should be no clarity about legislative processes. I am already very excited about how Mr. Vice-Chancellor – no, he is not, I always doubt it – Mr. Partyobmann, but non-Vizekanzler will deal with the fact that things that are actually newly connected with politics will not happen here, because he simply prevents it. So: More transparency is also relevant in other areas. There are doubts as to whether this can still be implemented during this period.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20625	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20647	Madam President. I can say to Mrs Steger that much of what we have discussed in the democratic survey is not in this proposal today. There is a minority report of four factions, which is very comprehensive, which has 42 pages, where all the opposition parties have almost voted in favour of the three-stage national legislation. This is so interesting, of course, because it was originally the starting point of the democratic survey that we said: If there is a particularly successful popular desire and the National Council does not match it, there should be a popular survey. It's very sad that this hasn't happened. Unfortunately, it is also a matter of looking for appropriate majority voting in Parliament. If I am with the appropriate majority, then of course there is also the majority report – almost as a counterpart to the minority report – on this democratic survey, which SPÖ and ÖVP have produced in this way after the survey. The problem now that we are discussing today's request by all parties is that the government parties have even resigned from their majority report. I can quote a few things from that. For example, the government parties have voted in favour of abolishing the silence of office. We are still waiting for the Information Freedom Act, and nothing has gone on. Mr Brosz has already mentioned it, it was planned that Members of the Federal Government should present their project reports here in Parliament in the future. We had an agreement on this – I would also like to see very constructive negotiations with Mr Gerstl and my colleague. Thanks to Wittmann – we had an agreement, but the Federal Government then came to it, it cannot explain what it is going to do in the future, or it should explain only chancellors and vice chancellors, but not the individual ministers. It also referred to the subject of political education in this majority report, and nothing has yet to go on. What we are creating is to implement on the one hand the model of crowdsourcing and to start a pilot project, which, I believe, is very, very useful, because it is about the involvement of citizens in the run-up to legislative projects. That is to say, the Federal Government is asked to put concrete problems or concrete issues into space once and to ask how people can be allowed to participate here, as Finland has already done, for example. The second major improvement is the question of how we will carry out reviews in the future. I think it is quite important that in the future, what has changed between the ministerial draft and the government template, that it is also noted why it has changed, why the changes are there, and that this is also justified accordingly. Of course, what we decide here today is not much. It's also an order for us to continue here. All opposition parties have a corresponding interest in continuing to work on direct democratic means. Mrs Steger, I would like to have a little more enthusiasm for the FPÖ in the rounds of negotiations. Of course, it is possible that Greens and NEOS are always here particularly insisting and seeing that we are bringing something forward. With even more support from the FPÖ, it would be even easier for us to fall. Max Weber once said that politics is the constant drilling of hard boards. – The fact is that we all did not get what we wanted as opposition parties, but in order to continue these small changes, which you agree with, it takes quite intense negotiations, and there would be a little more enthusiasm for the liberals at times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20702	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20723	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we too will agree with the Stronach team. Sure, we're also on the top of the request. It is, however, a reflex or a tiny step towards more democracy. We would wish ourselves much more direct democracy, especially as Vorarlberger on the border with Switzerland. It is a model country for direct democracy. I, of course, see with envy over the border and see how direct democracy works there, how the people determines. I have already done so in a previous speech today, when Mr Bundeskanzler meant that he now wants to work with Parliament: Here the government rules over the people and not vice versa. I think that's something we need to take a little look at: It is true in Switzerland that if the government does not do anything there, or if Parliament is against what the government wants to do, then Parliament has ways and means to question the people. I think that would be the right step, because we would move much further. There would be fewer disputes, but the Sovereign, the People, would then decide. He determines what is good for the people, and what is good for the Sovereign. It would have to be our great interest as a parliamentarian, as a people's representative, that the people should speak more and not just vote every five years – or after four years, depending on how it fits the party street right now; from time to time the period is also somewhat shorter. That would be the right step, I think, then we would have a real people's representation again. We could have done a lot in this area. As has been said, this is not desired by the rulers; You know why, too. I hope that in the future there will perhaps be a temptation, that there is more reason for the powerful in this state and that we will have a real People's Office again. This works in some communities. I celebrated with me in the congregation with a referendum – not only one but several, which I have also won at home – how to really bring popular opinion into the town halls. I think it would be necessary for us to bring this into Parliament, into this House. That would be the right step. I would be pleased if, in the future, we could all think a little bit about it and take more steps where the people can vote directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20769	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20790	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Strengthening democracy in Austria: The involvement of citizens in the legislative process would be and is a very important and correct step in the right direction. But it is also important that the integration of the population is done in time and not only when it is too late. The integration must be as accessible as possible. It is also very important that integration must be understood by citizens. Experience gained and the knowledge of citizens must also be taken into account by the legislator. If the people's ideas are not taken into account by the legislator, this new instrument is history before it starts. Mr Hagen mentioned it correctly: What is possible in Switzerland must also be possible with us, namely that people should be included in the legislation in good time. Of course, a clear form must be found that the citizen can also deal with matter in good time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20820	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20842	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Very soon: It is an all-party agreement, at least as far as the points are concerned. I think, Mr Doppler, you can always think, and I think we all do that together. I also assume that this is only the beginning of a development. The clubmen have also agreed today on what we are going to do in the next few weeks. Now you can't compare that, you know. I am, but the first step is set in one direction, and one will have to develop it very quickly – one will see what the new legislative period will bring. That's not a question at all. I think both points are very good. They have never actually been discussed, nor have they been in the committee, Mr Scherak, because you are looking at me now. So these two developments are okay. The extended review is, I believe, something that has often been done to involve the individual citizens or communities or whatever, and the so-called crowdsourcing is also a subject that we have discussed together for a long time and is also a way in the right direction. We would not have brought the motion for a resolution together and would not have dealt with it in the way it was. No one has said that this is the big package, but it has been said that you are now taking the part on which there is an agreement. This is what you do, and then you will see how you can further develop these questions for the future. On a day that has already been discussed enough contrasts, there is an agreement in the area, even if it is small, ladies and gentlemen, of all, saying that on these issues the process was a good one, the discussions were good, the Committee was really good to bring it to a common all-party agreement here in plenary. That is why we should not break it here, but say: Again a step, admittedly a small, no question at all, but in the right direction. It will probably be up to all of us, or those colleagues who will be in the House during the next legislative period, that we will continue to develop this question accordingly. In this sense, I believe, we can only be proud and agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20890	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20911	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens can never be a mistake in the legislation. Why? – Because it creates more transparency first and because it creates more acceptance for the laws than it does. I am therefore particularly pleased that the motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Constitutional Committee – we have already heard it today: an all-party request – and will now be implemented in concrete terms. In my opinion, it contains two essential aspects in concrete terms. One is the extension of the review process to draft legislation, and the other is the implementation of so-called crowdsourcing projects. Crowdsourcing means in the transferred sense as much as “the wisdom of the many” and refers to the outsourcing of partial tasks to a group of voluntary users over the Internet. In concrete terms, citizens will have the opportunity to comment on government drafts at an early stage or to bring in their own ideas. Keywords: To make those involved involved. According to Finnish example – and we have already heard this today – we want to work together with the citizens and experts in a multi-stage process and, in a further step, to extend the assessment process to draft laws. In the future, opinions will be delivered by citizens and Institutions which are not the direct recipients of a review procedure shall be taken into account in the evaluation. I believe that this is an essential aspect and also an animo for many people to participate in. All serious opinions are published on the Parliament's website as they have been, and are, of course, publicly available. It is also new that, similar to petitions and citizens' initiatives, these applications can be supported electronically with a kind of like button from autumn onwards. Ladies and gentlemen! These are all welcome and important steps to promote the participation and participation of citizens in the political process, as you all know: Democracy is discussion! And with this proposal we contribute to the fact that more people in Austria are dealing with and actively participating in democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20954	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20975	Madam President. High house! I can basically follow the remarks made by all the previous speakers. I think all of us are so that when we talk to citizens, but also when we meet school groups et cetera here in Parliament, questions often arise such as: How do laws actually come about? How does the process of lawmaking proceed? How can you get in there? How are professionals involved? And there it is up to us to inform about it, and we also try to communicate how it works in principle. I believe that we all agree that the involvement of citizens in decision-making processes is very essential and that modern democracy also needs this citizen participation. Citizens' participation and civil rights are, I believe, essential. However, we also create regulations – and I do not want to hide that at this point – where perhaps the instruments – are not the legislative process, but in the application of laws – the civil participation or legal remedies are superfluous. It should not be the case that for important infrastructure projects such as the third airport runway or also the important Linz Westring can be taken by the interests of individual remedies and the projects can be delayed or prevented for a long time. In such cases too, policies should be able to decide responsibly on all civil and civil rights. The current decision – as the previous speakers have already said – concerns the involvement in the assessment process of government drafts to include crowdsourcing projects in which experts can be involved; the legislative process takes place in a four-stage process. All of these are also results of our survey commission “Strengthening Democracy in Austria”. I believe that this is a first important step that we should also take.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21015	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1622. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 200.) [[16:42:33]] 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1158, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the management and control system in Austria for the implementation of operational programmes under the “Investment in Growth and Employment” and the Objective ‘European Territorial Cooperation’ for the period 2014-2020 (1623d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21064	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21091	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This government template is an agreement, which regulates the division of tasks between the Federal Government and countries in the implementation of the EU Structural Funds for the period 2014 to 2020. For this period of funding, new EU framework conditions have also been changed for Austria, for which the Austrian internal framework structures have to be changed; therefore, there have been preparatory work. The Federal Chancellor's Office, together with the competent Federal Ministry, has negotiated with the countries, Lower Austria has agreed to be the last country in November of the previous year and has approved it, so the implementation of the task begins now. The EU Structural Funds will be managed on the basis of EU legislation and its standardised minimum standards under the national funding programmes. However, regional and structural policy is not, in essence, a competence of the B-VG, so the individual tasks are taken over by the individual ministries. I come to the individual funds: The ERDF, the European Regional Development Fund, is aimed at strengthening research, promoting technology and development and innovation and at strengthening the competitiveness of SMEs, increasing energy efficiency and applying renewable energy to businesses. In the period 2007 to 2013, speaking in the last period, the funding amount for Austria was €680 million. More than 6 000 projects have been submitted in Austria. Through the co-financing by Austria, the total amount of €4.5 billion has been made up, and it can be said that Austria has exhausted 92.26 percent of this fund. The ESF, the European Social Fund, which stands for employment and investment in education and lifelong learning, has had at its disposal € 524 million in the last period and, of course, has its focus: social inclusion and poverty reduction. The European territorial cooperation programmes, a total of 14 programmes, are about the common protection of natural resources, but also about flood protection, the joint planning and development of cross-border transport infrastructure. Austria has even managed to use more than 100 percent – at the expense of other member states. I think that the Federal Chancellery has achieved a coordinated reform, which simplifies the resolution itself and improves the performance of the administration and control system. The main points are the merger of the nine country programmes into an Austrian-wide programme, the reduction of the 36 funding agencies to 16 and the management of the entire programme in Vienna by the ÖROK office. I think that with this reform – both management and control – we can handle the EU’s funding even more effectively and more quickly. We want to use this, and we therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21142	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21164	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My predecessor, Mrs Lueger, has referred to the legal aspect, the technical aspect of which is a decision here: because it is a matter of proper implementation of the EU funding programmes at national level, and that must be ensured. It is important that the European funds are not only properly handled, but also give economic impetus to Austria. This is important, because the ERDF, the European Regional Development Fund, the ESF, the European Social Fund, and European Territorial Cooperation bring a great deal of funding to Austria. Let us look at the current EU financial period: From 2014 to 2020, the ERDF will be spending €536 million on EU funds, the ESF with €442 million, and the European Territorial Cooperation will bring €257 million. Together with the Rural Development Fund and co-financing in Austria, it can be said that over €2.5 billion of funding is available during this period. This is of central importance. In particular, European Territorial Cooperation is important – once called for by the Interreg programmes – in which there are regional cross-border programmes, such as Burgenland/Hungary, Lower Austria/Slovakia, to jointly implement cross-border economic projects. The best thing about these Structural Funds is to generate growth and employment, with all the criticism of the European Union. This means that more jobs are to be created, especially in less-favoured regions. Since Austria's accession to the EU, I have been concerned about this issue and can say that this brings a lot of structurally weak regions, because what is being lived there is a deep European thought, namely, a thought of solidarity: It is said that we are helping economically weaker regions – the stronger are helping the weaker regions – to bring them to the economic level of the richer regions. As I come from the Burgenland, I have experienced this myself concerning my home country, which is located on the Iron Curtain for 40 years and an economic The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation Since EU accession, some 120 000 EU-funded projects have been implemented in Burgenland. One can take this state as an example of how it has succeeded in ensuring that, by investing in education and training, in infrastructure, in business settlements, the Burgenland has developed very well and has reached the level of other federal states. But it is not only about the Burgenland, but also Lower Austria, the Styria and many other regions have benefited and ultimately benefited. In studies of the WIFO, it says: The rural area in Austria is developing better than the urban regions. – This is unique in Europe. It is therefore important that these funds continue to operate in the future, in the next EU financial period from 2021. One sentence to the conclusion: In my opinion, this active regional policy is a contribution to ensuring stability and security in Europe, because if structurally weak regions, where there are few jobs, are supported, so that they reach the level of other regions, then the enormous stability, especially in rural areas – across Europe, brings. This is a central importance of the European Union. That is why it has done a very, very good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21225	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21246	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Regional policy is indeed a success story of the European Union – Mr Berlakovich rightly mentioned this here – a success story that is unfortunately often too little illuminated in Austria. Why is that so, Mrs. Lueger? – On the one hand, you have also described very well what it is all about, namely, harmonization, technical resolution, control systems, administrative simplification, et cetera. This is an Article 15a agreement, says, from the Federal Constitution, the Federal legislator has no competence regarding regional policy. Spatial planning yes, partly. The ÖROK, which has been coordinating for years and decades, is located at the Federal Chancellery. And that's good. But – and this is a pity – this Parliament, Mr Berlakovich, does not have a single committee in which regional policy is discussed in depth together politically. I know this from many discussions with colleagues from other EU Member States, and in other parliaments there are very likely committees for regional policy. I have experienced more often that colleagues have asked me: Aha, you don't have a Regional Policy Committee at all?- Oh, my God! – Complete surprise. I answered: Unfortunately, this is the case with us, because it is politically from the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very desirable for us to have more reports on regional policy, if we had more discussion here, Mrs State Secretary. Positive signals for the economy, for rural areas – Mr Berlakovich rightly referred to this as regards the last periods, which has brought momentum. Many technology centres, for example, have been implemented with these funds. Many new jobs have been created. create, many innovative small businesses have got a chance and of course also larger business sites. So this success story of Europe would really be wider to tell. I would like to say here that the labelling of such projects in Austria is always very small. The EU emblem – the labelling rules that need to be reviewed with this control system – is very small in projects in Austria, often oversized in Eastern Europe. Eastern European countries have shown it hugely when it was an EU co-financed project. In Austria, our heads of state often feel: Yeah, that's our money, we got it practically back. – But that is only partly true. These are European programmes, as there are, of course, nationally also departments dealing with them, and in the regions actors – also regional forums, mayors, mayors and civil society – who actively participate in sustainable regional development. I believe that this strategy, Mr Berlakovich, should also be carried out throughout a reformed European Union – this debate is now coming, especially in terms of economic dynamics, further development – not only from the point of view of cohesion. Yes, the same prosperity in all regions must remain an objective. I would be in favour of this if we were to look at the development in Hungary, in Eastern Europe. Hungary is unfortunately a bad example – in contrast to the Burgenland. There is far too little regional policy, far too strong centralism. Unfortunately, this also led to this very difficult economic situation of Hungary. I think that we would be very, very well positioned, have a lot of positive experience, and we should bring it into the debate. I'd like to mention a little manko. We will vote today, but the Manko is the problem of the Monitoring Committee again and again. Who controls these programmes? Who is currently in the Monitoring Committee? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the Ministries, the Offices of the Land Governments, the Social Partners, the Municipal Association, the Urban Federation, and the Industrial Association. But who's not in there? The parties to this House – we who have the control of the executives that we should actually have over EU funds that are spent – I say quite honestly. This cannot be remitted to a day of land, because the programmes are united throughout Austria, now coordinated. So I think it is urgently necessary to give the parties a vote in a reform discussion, namely that they are also represented in the monitoring committee, and also that, at least in the middle of the respective period, there is a report on the state of the projects in the federal states to the National Council on the structural programmes. This would, I believe, be a very good contribution to strengthening the debate on European policy issues and regional policy at the same time in order to show citizens: Yes, of course, we also benefit from a good European policy, which we can implement very specifically with projects on the ground. That would be a concern I would like us to work on it together in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21314	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21337	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government Agreement on the implementation of EU funding programmes is as follows: The Federal Government and the Länder have concluded an agreement on the proper implementation of EU funding programmes in Austria. In concrete terms, these are the programmes of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund for the period from 2014 to 2020. Since Austria does not have its own bodies and institutions for the implementation of such programmes, it is precisely Article 15a agreements that will be concluded. Similar agreements have already been reached in the past. The priority objective of the EU Structural Funds is to promote growth and employment – that has already been addressed by Mr Pirklhuber – and above all, what is important – what Mr Berlakovich has mentioned, the approximation of the weaker economic EU countries to economically stronger countries. This is an important factor. The country itself is responsible for the proper settlement. However, it is also necessary to ensure that national law and also EU law are respected. Growth and employment are a very important factor, especially for the future and especially today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21367	Next speaker: Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21389	Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we discuss the interaction of the common European efforts, the implementation in Austria, namely the interaction with the countries, but also with the economically active people working outside the country, it shows how complicated the European interplay is. It is true that the proposals will be developed by Austria, in the next programme period, after 2020, and the proposals will be put into directives by the EU and implemented in Austria again. That's an elaborate story, but amazingly she works. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The current programme, which has a real positive and positive impact on jobs in rural regions, regional development, the development of our CO2 balance, renewable energy, knowledge transfer and so on, is a programme in which Niki Berlakovich has been intensively involved in its design and enforcement. At this point I would like to express my thanks to him. It is nice that we can talk about a good report today, that the Federal Government will create the necessary conditions for this to work, that the corresponding treaties between the countries and the federal government have been concluded, but we must never forget who started it. That's why a warm thanks to Nikolaus Berlakovich.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21429	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the contested agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG in 1158 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:00:12]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1585, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the Integration of the Labour Market (IJG) into the framework of an Integration Year (Integration Year Act) and amending the Labour Market Integration Act (Employment Market Integration Act). Question No 1398/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues on labour market policy overall strategy for integrating recognised refugees into the labour market (1597 d.a.) 5. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1586, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing an integration law and an anti-face law, as well as the establishment and residence law, the Asylum Act 2005, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Citizenship Law 1985 and the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 (1631 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21492	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no need for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First word message: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21523	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister Kurz! First of all the year of integration, the mandatory year of integration, which is now on the agenda; we have also debated it very long and very detailed in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is a shame that the Minister of Social Affairs has not yet given us the honour. What's this about? – It is about creating places for a mandatory year of integration – which takes the name after a year – for up to 15,000 people, cost: € 140 million. It's supposed to be built up in modules. It is aimed, on the one hand, at asylum seekers but also asylum seekers, and that is in reality the novum of this mandatory year of integration. So far, it has been the case that we have first expected to see whether the person concerned will at all receive the asylum status. That's something new now. It is also in the legislative text that it is aimed at asylum seekers with a particularly good outlook to remain, which will therefore really preserve asylum status. If you think about this entire chronology, you can say: There has been, we know, a survey statistics, application statistics and an admission statistics for a year. – For the spectators at home: The survey statistics concern those who are illegally attacked in the federal territory; in the application statistics, asylum applications appear to be made by these illegally attacked persons; in the admission statistics, these applications are accepted at all, and they will only be approved if they have any prospect of success at all, with a second reason for exclusion – which, however, is not very common, according to parliamentary request, only a few hundred times – which is that an asylum application has already been submitted in another EU country. So for those whose application appears in the admission statistics, there is a good prospect to stay. Now you can sharpen it once again if a good view to stay exists. Point one: I think we should also wait for a legal asylum procedure, because we have created a right to that. Point two: When does an asylum seekers have good prospects to stay? – Well, if he comes either from a war zone or if he is underage. We all know: Nowhere is the untruth said as often as with respect to origin and, on the other hand, with regard to age. The cases in which 52-year-olds spend themselves as 16-year-olds may be individual cases, but that 30-year-olds spend themselves as minors, that is going on and there. It has been found that almost half of the age data were wrong in follow-up checks, so half of those who have made themselves underage are no longer. In the country of origin it is as follows: It is, of course, always said that one comes from Syria, although one probably comes from North Africa. That's all going on and going. For all these people, however, a mandatory year of integration is now being introduced. These are the well educated ones you once meant, Mr Foreign Minister, who are on average better educated than the average Austrian. You brought us a statistics in the National Council at that time. This must now be given into the mandatory year of integration, which you build up module-like; in addition to language courses, module-like work training and training programs are also included. These trainings are, of course, carried out in socio-economic enterprises – yes, quite clearly. That is – we know that when we look at these people – from the people who came to us in 2015 and after that, 80 percent have a maximum of compulsory schooling. And now they're supposed to be training in a year like they haven't had their whole life before?- Oh, my God! - It can't work at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's just about you subtracting these people as early as possible that they never hit the AMS, because the AMS numbers speak a whole, very clear language. At present, 30 000 asylum seekers have been reported to the AMS, 13 519 of whom are long-term unemployed, and more than 13 000 have been unemployed for over a year. What are you doing? – They take them out of unemployment statistics, send them to this integration training, and then they are housed in any socio-economic establishment. They make their money with it, they're happy. Ministers are happy: For example, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is happy because he has them out of statistics, the Minister for Integration is happy because integration has worked so well. Everyone's happy. The truth, however, ladies and gentlemen, is quite another. They're hidden somewhere, they'll be framed somewhere, so that after a year of social economic operation, you can let them slide back into the social system very slowly. They then hit at some point in the minimum security – and the world is fine and beautiful. This is a way that is dishonest. That's something we're going to reject. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what I am very much saying to you: If you really want to do something for integration, if you honestly think it would, then first of all you would see that those who are honest who have completed the asylum procedure and can stay here are in proper language courses. That would be honest. But the second is also – and only then will you be able to help in the long term at all – that those who do not need protection are being deported, and definitely deported, and not with beautifully colored deportation statistics, where you have to look at them: Where are these people being sent back with the help of return? – To Serbia, to Macedonia, to Romania. That's not my invention, it's from the BMI, from the Ministry of the Interior. There are people from Romania who apply for asylum in Austria every month. They are then sent back, resulting in such a high recovery rate, such a high deportation rate. It's all distorted and distorted! We must move those who come to Austria and try to get out of Austria illegally. If the reason for the asylum is removed, the others will have to return to their home countries, because there they will be needed. In the meantime, we can train them here with language courses, vocational training and the like, so that they can really serve in the reconstruction of their home country. That would be real help, that would also help to integrate. What you do is nothing else – and your The desire is nothing but to beautify a statistics and to feed the socio-economic enterprises with human material. [[Abg. Korun: Human Material?- Oh, my God!]] That's a dirty way. That's an dishonest way. [[Abg. Korun: “human material”! That's despicable!]] - That's not despicable. This programme is just as despicable. [[Abg. Korun: People are not material!]] You don't care about these people! They're just trying to get them out of the statistics. This is the true background! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If people were really worth something to you, if the people behind it were really worth something, then you would also treat them as such, then you would also help them get into the first labour market. But don't give them that help. [[Abg. Korun: People are not material!]] They're just trying to framing them. That's dishonest, and that's degrading.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21625	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21647	Well, on the other hand, you can't say: No one in the parks is supposed to be surrounded by the fact that they do not have access to the labour market, that they remain in the minimum guarantee, which is in fact not the case with continuing training! – This is not a strategy with which we can really meet citizens. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That was predictable! Everyone should have known that! Solutions! I'm excited!]] The solution is, among other things, to ensure that the root of the migration movements is addressed. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Stopping!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It won't stop! Keep putting them on!]] These are economic reasons, climatic reasons. There should be peace in the countries of origin and not war. People need a life perspective where they come from to stay there. This is once again the root of the problem. But those who come who are entitled to claim, who are really honest, should have an opportunity to get asylum here. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you do not know that during the trial!]] I know your criticism, but I think the access to ensure that they have a chance to get into the labour market is right. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Let's get rid of the asylum process!]] And the main threat to the labour market is, in fact, not that, but that of free movement of persons. Most of the unemployed can be explained with EU free movement of persons, coming from the EU area. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But this is...!]] That's the real problem, and not what you're saying here. Abuse is just as rejected by me. If someone tells a grudge – it is to be rejected, we are entirely of an opinion. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But where do you want...? You can't know!]] The only thing that bothers me is that you develop such a kumpanei argument: There are loud people sitting up there who are interested in the fact that there is a quiet immigration, best to be unregistered, through any back doors. – That is certainly not true, at least I do not see it so, and I think it is a merit of the Secretary of State that she has tried to take seriously the criticism that has always existed in the places, in the city, where it has been said: [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What did Mrs. State Secretary do, Mr. Cot?]] They're just in the area, that's bothering us!, He can't get German!, and so on. Now I come to a second point – the other concerns the Committee, but I have put it together – which is a causa from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think we're going in the right direction. Honestly, I am not interested in the distribution of a Koran translation in German language in the Salafist interpretation, in the IS interpretation or in any other interpretation, possibly with a package text or oral comment. [[Abg. Peter Wurm:... always knew, Mr. Cap!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – Well, that’s not a matter of course, but there’s an opinion, because: What do we know? – The Christians, the Catholics, have made it easier: Roma locuta, causa finita. They just make a text, and that's true. In this case, however, there are Imame, even appointed Imame, all possible variants, and there you have to be careful of course. We have already taken steps – whether this concerns the famous Hasspreacher, whether Turkey is involved and sending people to teach in the mosques. We are already doing everything, and it is also a step that, as I believe, goes in the right direction. As far as facial cover is concerned, I believe that it is right to take steps. The complete body cover is the signal of political Islamism. This is not just me, you can read it in countless articles, in the “time”, whether Alice Schwarzer or Iris Radisch, the Feuilleton chief, is, or others who have written the articles and are really very critical about it. Even in the internal Muslim debate, I know, there are many – whether there are professors, whether they are Muslims – who are dealing with and criticizing at the universities' teaching chairs. From the Qur'an is not the head covering and not even the whole body cover. I think that we should almost both be interested in the fact that one within this community is more opposed to those against which we must, in fact, already do with the police, with the help of security institutions and similar anti-terrorism measures. You have to try to get hold of this in advance, and I believe that this is going in the right direction. Integration about the language is correct anyway, we don't need to talk about it at all, because you have to be very motivating. We all know the debate about patriarchal family structures in which the man is not at all interested that the woman learns German so that she may also appear on the labour market and he no longer has control of her, but is already interested in the fact that the whole body covering or otherwise a covering ensures that one can no longer distinguish between pure and unclean women. This, according to my interpretation of an open society, is a concept of society, which I believe must be opposed to politically, but also religiously, in any case, together with those who also criticize it. I believe that both laws go in the absolutely right direction, that you can support it. If it turns out that there is some sort of gap, then we will do it the same as with other laws, then we will close the gap. At the moment, I am convinced that this is going in the right direction, and I hope that this will be decided today. [[Call to the FPÖ:The law is a single...!]] – Maybe you want to vote, you seem so insecure up there anyway – a ruckerl!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21823	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21844	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, I would like to greet the young people at the gallery who are so cheerfully waving. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I'm glad you're here and listen to our discussion! [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the measures to be taken by the Member States in order to ensure that the measures adopted are implemented in accordance with the principles laid down in ……]] One thing I would like to clarify and underline in advance, because a right-wing human-debt language in Parliament is increasingly trying to pave the way: It was about so-called human material. [[Abg. Cute: Ah, finally! Racism...!]] I think all those who have a little sense of history can remember who intended and with what consequences the word human material was used. I must say that I am also quite surprised that the Presidency very often fails to respond to such extreme statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] I also wanted to deposit that at this point and also underline it again: No human is material. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We now have two legislative proposals, and I would first like to talk about the Year of Integration Act. In principle, it is, of course, reasonable if such a thing as an integration year is established, at the same time, we all need to be aware that it will be very important for implementation and practice. The fact that there is a beautiful word on a package does not yet mean that it will also be implemented in a meaningful and well-established manner. By the way, even the beautiful word integration law sounds good for the first time; if you look at the content, you can see, the execution may not have been so successful – but later on. With regard to the Integration Year Act, it is very important to know that no obligation to unpaid work is established. It was a very important concern for us to define this content and this thrust with a committee statement to stop the polemics of two euro, one euro to zero euro jobs, which the Minister of Integration has spent weeks trying to get up and down, and to ensure that this is not the case, therefore, that no one under the cover of the integration year can be forced into two euro jobs or even zero euro jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In a committee set up by the Greens, the committee responsible has decided – I quote – to: "The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs notes that labour training within the meaning of Section 5 para. 3 Z 7 Integration Year Act is not an obligation to work, but rather to have the character of continuing training," – the Minister of Integration does not listen once again – "which builds on the skills already existing and serves to prepare for integration into the labour market or further training". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] That's why we find that useful – in brackets: It will be for the execution that this will be done well, that there will be enough language courses, but also literacy courses, and that the people seeking by recognised refugees or protection who will complete this integration year can be recognized well, professionally and as quickly as possible, so that we will no longer have the phenomenon of taxi-drivers or taxi-driving doctors in the future. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Atom scientist!]] – You can save yourself from your hammery calls, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Höbart: There are so many from Afghanistan!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... so awfully uneducated!]] With regard to the second proposal, namely the collective law, which bears the beautiful name Integration Act, it is important to know that eight laws in the field of migration and asylum currently exist side by side. So eight different laws regulate immigration. [[Call at the FPÖ:... Repatriation law...!]] – To this end, of course, the liberals, the so-called liberals, only the repatriation, we know, we do not wonder at all about that. [[Call the FPÖ:Of course!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, apologise: so-called?- Oh, my God!]] As soon as the word migration occurs, they demand feedback and minus migration and so on, we know everything. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Of course!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - It won't be better with calls. So there are currently eight different laws that exist side by side, and to these eight existing laws a ninth is now added. It is called the Integration Act, and therefore of course the criticism of the wind is to be removed from the sails, because: Who is against integration except the so-called liberals? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does “so-called” mean? Why so - called?]] However, looking at the law in detail, it is noted that no uniform system on language courses has yet been introduced. That is, the law means integration law... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Labour market integration law!]] – Perhaps you could stop with your constant and disturbing calls – but this is the purpose of your calls, I know; so much about your collegiality here in the House. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You are a master call, what do you want?- Oh, my God!]] – I would like to be able to give my speech without being constantly disturbed by the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haider and Mr Kitzmüller.]] [[Abg. Pretty: One can unfortunately participate in a pluralistic discussion!]] But even that doesn't lead you to distance yourself from it. Thank you for showing your attitude so beautiful here! - Yeah, right, and then you go on yelling. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kitzmüller.]] Just keep yelling, there are a lot of young people in the gallery and some of them are doing this here. [[Uplifting the stretched thumbs]] Thank you for showing your true face here! From a law bearing the name Integration Law, I would like or expect a comprehensive, affordable offer of German courses. That's not the case. Interestingly, even the competence for different German courses is divided between two ministries: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration should be responsible for the first part of German courses, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the second part of German courses. [[Abg. Beautiful: But this is really a human rights violation!]] . You have said that, Mr Colleague, but thank you for your support. [[Abg. Cute:... so excited...!]] - No, you're excited, you're the only one who's upset here. I'm trying to keep my speech quiet here. Whoever disturbs the speech, everyone will get it anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The responsibility for German courses is divided between two different ministries. The responsibility for literacy courses, which are partly also necessary, is nowhere. After all, we have called for an expert and expert hearing in Parliament and have also been held, and the question has also been asked several times who organizes and offers the literacy courses – if necessary, logically. Unfortunately, we did not get a clear answer. It should be assumed that even in cases where people would need alphabetization before the German courses, these literacy courses will unfortunately not take place. Two final points, on the one hand, the prohibition of facial cover: I think we all agree here that we don't want women to cover up, totally cover up. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No headscarves!]] With regard to the question of how to prevent that, in particular, how to prevent a negative model effect, we differ. We Greens believe that it would have been more proportionate and, above all, easier to implement the situations in which the covering of the face is not permitted; for example, if an examination were to be carried out, for example in court proceedings, for example in the case of admission checks in courts and authorities. This would have been a way of ensuring that this could be implemented. The fine you provide with the law has been in France for a few years, and it has not led to a decrease in the number of cases of full cover. The penalties are paid, and full veiling continues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Therefore, and for the reasons mentioned above, we will not agree to the second proposal concerning the non-existent and ununified German courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22159	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Haider on behalf of the European Democratic Group. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22184	Mr President. Although there are many reasons for an adjustment after this speech, I confine myself to one: Mr Korun has accused Mr Belakovich-Jenewein of using the word human material in a right-wing language. I'm actually correcting: This term has first appeared with Karl Marx, whom one can rightly accuse, but not to have been far right.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22223	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22244	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's always the same thing: If we address the issues of asylum, refugees, integration in the National Council, there is a gap between left and right in extreme positions here. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: Both are wrong, both the view of the Greens, which according to the motto: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] Sesame, open up!, are on the go, but also what is being done by the Freedom Party, namely not at all in integration measures for people who also have a right to stay with us. Both are wrong, so it needs a strong force in the middle, and that is the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! – The People’s Party is still there, Mr Haider, you need not worry about us, we are very well positioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Scherak and Mr Schimanek.]] [[Abg. Haider: They don't have it!]] It is about the labour market integration law, it is about the integration law – two materials that will be substantially supported by the integration of people who have the status as recognised refugees, those who are eligible for subsidiary protection, or where there is a high likelihood that they may and may remain in the country with us. Integration is not a one-way road, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, there are rights, but what is strongly enshrined in these laws is the obligations, the obligations of which we, as Austrian legislators, rightly demand from those people who can stay with us. The year of integration, which is being introduced, is a system of support, but also of demand. The issue is language learning, vocational qualification and the possibility of work training. Yes, there are people who have already integrated into the labour market, but it is not too many, Mrs Colleague of the Greens; we must also stress that. 90 percent of recognised refugees can be found in unemployment statistics. [[Demonstrative applause of Deputies Belakovich-Jenewein and Peter Wurm.]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Finally, the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] You have rightly said that there are some who are trained and taxi driving. I tell you, however, that there is also the Afghan carpet dealer, and we have every effort to accommodate people, even though they are recognised refugees. [[Abg. Korun: Is there too! I didn't say there's no such thing!]] It is essential that these people who can stay with us are also willing to take these measures. If they don't, then it's clearly sanctioned. This is the responsibility of countries in the field of demand-oriented minimum security and in the field of support to the AMS. [[Abg. Peter Wurm:... black and green state government is doing this! Tirol too! Black-green state government!]] It is clearly written here that sanctions must be sanctioned if, for example, someone does not participate in these measures of the year of integration. [[Abg. Bösch: Who pays...?]] An open word on the need-oriented minimum security, ladies and gentlemen, because it is natural for people who are largely concerned with the need-oriented minimum security: There are now three federal states that have taken decisions or are about to take them in the direction that people who can stay with us will, so to speak, enter the minimum guarantee, although they have not lived in Austria in recent years. Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Burgenland take these decisions or have taken them in relation to a lower minimum guarantee. We have 560 € in Upper Austria, 572 € in Lower Austria, and my knowledge is planned by the Burgenland under the head of state Niessl 584 €. That is exactly the approach, and in this sum there is also an integration bonus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] There is a bonus for integration when one is involved in these measures. If one does not participate, then the integration bonus does not come to the payment. Thus, as a bourgeois People's Party, we understand access when we take up people in our country. [[Abg. Scherak: New People's Party!]] [[Abg. Korun: A short list!]] This is not only linked to rights, but it is clearly also linked to obligations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also requires a high level of social justice within the population, that we signal: We don't let anyone down! – On the other hand, however, there must be a balance between what we can earn in this country and what we provide in social services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is governed by these laws. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Integration. [[Ha-run at the FPÖ.]] He presented the Integration Act in August 2016. It took up until January until we agreed on the new government programme, the revised programme. Now this will be decided. It took months for this to go faster from my point of view, but the mandatory German and value courses and the ban on full veiling come. Mrs Korun, I do not want to have this at all: When I go out, I want to look people in the face, see them. [[Abg. Korun: That's what we all want!]] One must be able to demand in an open society that the people who come to us cannot agree, so that at best one sees the visionary visions. That's not all right. Therefore, this prohibition is justified, just like that concerning the Qur'an distribution. [[Abg. Korun: That's what we all want!]] We include people under certain conditions, which is also clearly regulated by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] But it cannot be that we have to judge according to what people from the countries they come from. It has to be that we can continue our culture and our traditions. There must also be obligations, and in principle these people should be oriented towards our lives. This is exactly what is achieved by these legal regulations. I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on the fact that this law can still be passed today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22464	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When I heard Mr Gustl Wöginger's speech, I thought: Okay, they must have come to the government all new. – However, I have heard something else today, namely that the ÖVP has been in the Federal Government for 30 years and the SPÖ has been there almost always for the last 40 years. Why do I say that? – I say this because I think that the mistakes in integration – and the evidence we see on the street every day – were made years and decades ago. [[Abg. Neubauer:... the speaking time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there you were in the government and did nothing. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I'm going to make that clear to you with a few examples. Mrs Korun, perhaps a short time to your speech, which I would like to make happen to Mr Regue: Integration is good, yes, but integration does not only need the law that dictates how to integrate, but it also needs the will of the more integrators, and that's what I'm about to come back to. [[Abg. Korun: You know each other!]] - I know very well. [[Abg. Korun: Really?- Oh, my God!]] – Yes, Mrs. Korun, you can believe I know very well. [[Abg. Korun: I know myself too!]] We have a very high proportion of foreigners and very many guest workers in Vorarlberg. In the 1970s, the Boatpeople, Vietnamese, came to Vorarlberg. These people have just celebrated their anniversary because they've been there for so long. [[Abg. Brosz: You know yourself well with...! A new party every two years!]] – You have to listen to me! On the occasion of the anniversary these people were asked how they had taken such a footing in Vorarlberg, in the rural area. [[Abg. Korun: Who asked her?]] – The ORF has brought a mission over it, Mrs. Korun. You might be able to look at them, that might be helpful for your policy. So they interviewed the Vietnamese and a gentleman said: Yes, we are all well integrated, we all speak Vorarlbergerisch today, we are partly married to Vorarlberger and have integrated into the people. He said when they arrived, they first looked over the fence to see what the neighbors were doing. That's what she said: Aha, that must be good, that's what we want, so do we. – This is for me integration and integration, and not what we are now experiencing. [[Abg. Korun: So copy!]] Dear Mrs. Korun, then we don't have to discuss any more of our headscarves or anything else. If people want to integrate, they adapt to our rules, and that's the change. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was a later year of 1968, so I was in school in the 1970s. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A 68er!]] At the time, the first Turkish host workers' families came who had been brought back. My schoolmate Gülay, who comes from Turkey, a nice girl, I never saw with a head cloth. Look You go to the public schools today, to the kindergartens, there are some hidden girls running around! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sign that parents do not want integration. They live it up to the children and force them to walk around. Ladies and gentlemen, politics must respond! But they didn't trust that. That's where you have your pants full, covered up to the top. I think you have to sit there. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It's about the will of those who come here. You yourself were in this committee, Mrs. Korun. What did the expert from Syria say that came here as a child? – She said we have dangerous developments, Salafism and everything else. We allow this to happen, and it is overwhelming and presents us with great problems. If we accept that a parallel society is being built, we must not be surprised that this is the case. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be... – I speak of you. [[Abg. Korun: Who is for Salafism? Nobody!]] They're getting all the people in from the greens. This has now been confirmed again, and we only have to think back. [[Abg. Korun: You're talking about Salafists! Stay with a theme!]] – That's the point. Let's take a look at this, I'd like to give an example: There is a state in Europe, a small, young state, with 80 percent Muslims dealing with it a little differently. I would expect such an approach from our Federal Government. 80 percent of the population of Kosovo are Muslims. In Kosovo, there is a headline ban in public offices at universities, at public schools. I've been there several times, and I've rarely seen a lady with a head cloth there. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you can see how the rabbit goes. That's how humanity is ticking in these countries. If we in Austria accept all of this and allow ourselves to be governed from outside – you know exactly where that comes from – then we will finally stay on the track, and we do not want to. We are talking about integration, about the need to give these people jobs – this is another subject, on which my colleague Waltraud Dietrich will come to speak – but then we must already have the courage, as representatives of the Austrian population, as Austrian Parliament, to clearly state the laws on how immigrants are to behave in Austria. Then we did it right, otherwise we failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22666	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22687	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The good thing about it, after Mr Hagen, is that one can always prove that one can also lead to a serious and differentiated debate on such issues. We are discussing several government documents, and I will talk about the integration package. It is a collective law, and collective laws unfortunately have it so in themselves that you have to see things differentiated. I come to the positive points, these are the mandatory German and value-added courses and the uniform integration agreement, which is to be introduced throughout the country. I think it is clear that people who come to Austria looking for protection and get protection here must show willingness to integrate. I think it is also quite clear that they must learn the language, because only as much integration will be possible. I also believe that it is very important that we deal with these people in such a way that we bring them closer to the values that are generally valid in Austria. It is important for us, as defenceful, liberal and open democracy, that we act decisively in that we focus on these values and clearly say what we are imagining. This includes, among other things, equality between men and women, the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of assembly, religious freedom, but also, of course, the legal equality of homosexuals. That is unnegotiable for us. This must also be clearly discussed in appropriate value courses with the people who come to Austria, whose home countries may not have lived this way. I therefore also think it is right that there are clear sanctions when people do not participate in the courses. The penalty mechanism for non-commitment of value rates is fully justified. As I have already said, the integration package is a collective law, and this unfortunately also leads to a lot of symbolic policy being made. So there is a lot of symbolic legislation in this package. First of all, perhaps to change the road transport system, Mr Cap has mentioned earlier: He almost wants to prevent the dangerous Qur'an distributions of the Salafists, especially if this involves recruitment attempts. I think we all agree we don't want to. The only question is whether this law precludes it. Let's take a look at this: In this law there is nowhere of dangerous Salafists, of recruitment attempts. In the future, the road traffic regulations will simply provide the opportunity to prohibit anything where books may be distributed. In the explanations there is something very small about “divide actions. ” That is, what you're doing here is to decide on a totally undetermined law that leaves a huge scope. What we are aiming at is the objective that we all agree on, namely that these recruitment attempts should not be, is not regulated by this. Much more scurrily is the whole debate about facial cover. A law will be passed which is in itself value-neutral. It is, of course, about the full veiling of women. Now the ban on wear and tear can be found in the so-called integration package. I have not yet been able to explain how a ban – women can no longer be completely veiled – will contribute to integration. I asked several times. I also wanted to know how many burka carriers there are in Austria, because I think it is important to act accordingly on evidence based. But I didn't get an answer. It is also fascinating to look at the opinions on the ban on Members of Parliament and government ministers in recent years. Foreign Minister Kurz – 2014, one has to say this – said: “[...] with a Burka ban we will not solve integration in Austria.” These are “artificial debates”, which are definitely not necessary in Austria. Mrs Fekter said that they only know one place in Austria, and that is Zell am See, where they often see Burkas, and: “These guests like to come to us. These guests leave a lot of money, so they “do not drive it out. ” Mrs Yılmaz said: “We do not have to import the problems of other countries into Austria.” It makes no sense for a joint dialogue to ‘ ban these women from public space. ’ I would have another quote from Foreign Minister Kurz: He does not want to sell out these burka carriers, who are tourists, because they bring a lot of money to Austria. The head of the ÖVP Women’s Federation from Tyrol, Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, said: “I don’t feel disturbed by burka or headcloth wearers.” She thinks women can decide for themselves what clothes they want to wear. Further: "We are an enlightened state. Everyone should have the freedom to dress as he pleases.” [[Call the FPÖ:typical ÖVP!]] Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek said that women could then “not participate in public life at all” through a ban. All of this thought, or it is “a twilight debate. ” ÖVP female head Dorothea Schittenhelm said that these were “one-off appearances” and: “We live in a free society”. At present, she sees “no need for action. ” – By the way, that was in August 2016. Federal Chancellor Kern said: “[...] it concerns between 100 and 150 women. We do not improve their situation with a Burka ban.” In the end, a quote was given. December 2016, Secretary-General of ÖVP, Werner Amon, said: “If someone buys a few shoes in the city center of Vienna, it may not be as necessary as a dish. This distinction can be made." I personally also believe that this distinction can and should be made. I don't think it's possible for women to be completely veiled when contacting authorities or court authorities. But what we're doing now is that we're basically forbidding full-sleeves in public space. We do that, although we do not even know how many burka carriers there are actually in Austria. We're going to ban these women from public space, we're gonna force them home. They will remain at home, and this will certainly not encourage integration, but rather the opposite of what we really want to do. The question of how this is with the burka carriers who come to Austria on vacation has not been able to answer anyone either. I wish everyone a lot of fun explaining this to tourists, especially in Zell am See. I think it's just a symbol. The Minister for Integration has also said that it is about showing once that we do not want to. Of course we do not want this, we all do not want it because, Mr Cap is right, the Burka is a symbol of political Islam. That's not a question at all. The question is: As a liberal rule of law, do we not oppose the introduction of a ban exactly the liberal values for which we should all actually fight? Let's sit down and say, The only way to respond to such an oppressive symbol as the Burka is to give up de facto the open society, which Mr Wöginger has also mentioned, and as the only response, to prohibit. In doing so, we are driving these women into isolation and we are not quite able to engage in a dialogue with them, but we should lead them so that they can finally take off the Burka voluntarily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] By the way: There is a crime in cases where women are forced to do so. It is necessary for a woman to be forced to wear a burka, and that is punishable. With those who voluntarily carry a Burka, which I do not want to accept, we must enter into a dialogue. We can't do that if they sit at home because of the ban and we don't have a chance to talk to them at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22744	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22765	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome the many young listeners! I am particularly pleased that you are here during this debate. Why? – The question of how good or bad integration of fellow people from other countries works with us is not only a permanent burner in Austrian domestic policy since summer 2015. Hardly any other topic has been discussed such emotionally and controversially at tribal tables, in the media, in their own four walls and here in the house. Hardly any other topic is such a good thing for creating emotions and making moods. Parties and politicians have grown up with this process. Some media increase with this mood and this process also their edition. [[Call the FPÖ: What do you mean?]] [[Call the Greens: “Today”, “Kronen Zeitung”!]] That is, in part, a criticism, because moods only serve self-interest, but do not solve anything. But I also mean this as a critical self-reflection because it shows that integration has not worked as well as our society would have deserved. This had, in particular, structural causes in view of the people who fled to us: Between the first reception, the time of the asylum procedure and the possible right to asylum, the people concerned are pushed back and forth between all levels of Austrian bureaucracy, from the federal government to the countries and the municipalities, back to the Federation, and there to the various ministries, also to mine. That is what the supply comes about, partly meaningful, but in terms of integration these system breaks have not brought us forward. I would like to thank this House for taking a first step with the Labour Market Integration Act today in order to basically change this situation for the better. [[Call to the FPÖ:We will see if this finds a majority! Don't praise the day before the evening!]] This law includes a structured year of integration, it provides for the first time a common roof for the integration efforts in this country and will contribute to the fact that we will integrate more effectively and more quickly the people who have fled to us, who are entitled to stay here, into our society and into our working world. A mandatory year of integration with different and – and that is crucial – individually coordinated modules will be carried out by eligible, eligible persons entitled to work, eligible for subsidiary protection, as well as as as as as assyl-advertising persons with high probability of recognition. This does not push the integration of those people who will stay with us to the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. We no longer allow people to be damned with us for nothing but create integration from the beginning. We can't condone them either because they can't work. This means that we give people concrete opportunities, but we also call on them to fulfil their obligations. What exactly is this about the year of integration? – We will analyse the skills of the refugees, we will support them in the recognition of their qualifications. It is crucial that we address exactly what measures are needed by the people concerned. An asylumist who has worked as a doctor in her home needs measures other than someone who has to be illiterate. [[Call the FPÖ: Do you think we don't need doctors in Syria?- Oh, my God!]] Another module consists of German courses, because the language is the basic requirement; I share this view with all. There will be courses for orientation in our cohabitation. Our values of openness, of peaceful social life, of solidarity, of equality of all, regardless of gender, of sexual orientation, of skin color and of origin, are to be taught. These are the cornerstones of our society, and everyone and everyone should know and respect them. One thing is important: “All humans are born [...] equal to dignity and rights.” [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] By the way, this has been in the Austrian ABGB since 1811. The labour market will be central. Vocational orientation and application training, work preparation and employment training for civil service providers, these courses also need to be completed according to their usefulness. A single model, on the other hand, does not help people and waste our resources. The year of integration is tailored to the needs. It is about getting to know the working mechanisms with us, getting a sense of everyday work. It is not a regular job, but one can say that it is a kind of internship where the direct benefit for the participants is in the foreground. I understand that there is a critical view, as some have tried to introduce a Hartz IV model for Austrians through the back door of integration policy – this is not necessary for me! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who was that?]] Work training is a module of many, it is limited in time and must have a benefit for the participants. I would like to thank the Committee on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - That makes everything clear. The Year of Integration will make a substantial contribution to ensuring the integration of people on the run. The positive effects will not be felt from today to tomorrow, but they will be essential for the future of our society, for the labour market, for social cohesion and thus for peace. This is not a symbolic policy and may not, therefore, be the most spectacular headline tomorrow, but for the most spectacular headline I did not go into politics, for which I am not paid, even if it is paid for one or another. Today is to be a day of solutions, and the Labour Market Integration Act has come a day for solutions. Thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22859	Now Mr Bundesminister has made a brief statement. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22880	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are, I think, all of us agree that integration is a great challenge, especially when it comes to people coming from different cultures than refugees or illegal migrants. This is the biggest challenge if there are people who come not from our neighbourhood, not from Europe, but from other cultures. As an integration, Europe and Foreign Minister, we have therefore already warned at the beginning of 2015 that the unlimited inclusion in Central Europe cannot work and that the further swing of these people is the absolutely wrong way. I have already emphasized today that I am glad that we succeeded in stopping the further swing over the Western Balkans route. There is still much to do on the Mediterranean-Italy route. There is also much to do with the integration of those who have come to us and will stay here. We therefore proposed an integration law in August. There were long discussions afterwards, and I am glad that it can finally be decided. The integration law has the goal of demanding and promoting. The Integration Year Act brings points such as more German courses and value training, it allows non-profit work, so that people who do not find a job do not simply sit around in the park or at home. And, as mentioned earlier, there should also be a ban on symbols of the opposite society, such as Koran distribution actions by Salafists or, for example, the full cover, which I believe should not have place in Austria and in Europe. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Cap.]] I can thank the fact that it is possible to bring this law together. It has been very long negotiations, but it has succeeded in finding a common line in January. I am pleased with the points that are being decided, but at the same time I would like to say that we should not make any illusions. Integration is a very, very long process. It is a great challenge to integrate people into our country. The people who have come, the more than 150,000 who have come as refugees to Austria in recent years, are mostly from very different cultures. They are, to a large extent, anything but well-trained, it will be extremely difficult to integrate them into the labour market and we should therefore not make any illusions. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] How difficult the challenge is, we know, I think, all. But it is necessary to do what you can do. In my opinion, this law is a step towards creating framework conditions that can be done. Nevertheless, it does not save us to stop the inflow, for everything else overpowers our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22941	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22965	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I will concentrate on two points in my remarks, one on the question of the so-called Qur'an distribution ban for Salafists. As Mr Scherak also pointed out, the word Koran is not found in this entire bill. One gets under control about pedestrian traffic in the road traffic system. – Appreciated members of the Federal Government, the Even Coalition, if you want to make a law with content, you also have to write in the content you want. That just doesn't happen to you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] If you say – that would also be our consent –: We do not want to have on public areas of Salafists, of radical applicants of Koranschriften, in some cases even translations that transport the content – we have long talked about what valid versions of the Koran there are in German; one could even control them – to be distributed!, then one has to regulate exactly that. But what are you doing? – I now have a concrete example: Is a park in Vienna, behind the Votivkirche or elsewhere at the University, is a green area a facility, an facility for pedestrian traffic? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: On Mariahilfer Straße!]] There may be young people lying in the sun, and then someone goes through and says: Do you like this Qur'an? Is that prohibited in any form by this law? – No, not at all, because you simply don’t respect what you put in front of the media as a headline. And that has system with you! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ, as well as of Mr Scherak and Mr Lugar.]] They simply don't bring it into line to translate it into a legal language. I don't think it's inability, I think you don't want it, because you open up through such rubber paragraphs, if I may put it that way, quite different ways of evaluating it at all. The point is that radical thought must not be spread. What is a radical animal protection at a stand? – As a result, freedom of assembly and other fundamental rights under this scheme were even bitten in a simple legal regulation of the road traffic regulations. That is to say, the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Government, is facing Salafism and the promotions through changes in the road traffic regulations. That's incredible! This is incredible what you afford here – and the Austrian citizens should watch. It's pretty good that new elections are coming. Only one thing if we're already in integration: In these new elections, it would be important to ensure that those who have voted for or against Erdoğan recently cannot vote in Austria in October of this year, because both cannot. Stop You're these unscrupulous double-citizenships! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Now I come to Burka and to ban the total cover, - cover: Yes, we support that. That is a perfectly correct approach. Why? – We have a different culture in Austria, and we also have a different view of religion and religious practice. We are a state in which state and religion, state and church are separated. That is what we want to show and demonstrate to others who come to us who are with us in such a way that we want it to be so. We Austrians cannot hope and build on what we have brought in Austria since the time of the Enlightenment a few hundred years ago, in some cases in other cultures or other religions within one to two years – and perhaps even with this kind of integration law. I just don't think so! It is about future generations; I do not want to wait for whatever progress the medicine will make. I don't think I'm going to be 300 years old; I don't think so, honestly. That is why we are going to proceed in such a way that we demand a separate vote on this point, that we say: Yes, to the Burka ban, but it's too little. In this debate we are also concerned with the headcloth, the headcloth as a sign that the will of the woman may also be broken. Mr. Scherak, if that's a necessity, then I want to see the wife who was forced by her husband to put up with headcloth and burka... [[Abg. Scherak: An officer's crime!]] – An official, but what if you don’t find a burden witness because the woman says: [[Abg. Scherak: This is a question of proof in criminal proceedings!]] No, no, no, I wasn't forced!Unknown term type: "%s".? What do you think about how many criminal proceedings throughout Austria need to be stopped despite evidence of criminal action? – The police have even been told: Yes!, but in the trial, the statement is made; therefore, logically, there is an acquittal and a termination of the proceedings. You do not live in reality with your cloud-cuckoo home, which you have designed here! It's the fact that you don't get along with this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak: This is the case in every criminal trial!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This could actually prove in Austria – and these are the ideas that our Minister of Integration has repeatedly expressed – that we are finally doing what we as headlines always hear of him, namely, actually doing what people in this country want. We do not want a division of society, but we want a society that knows exactly in which state we live. It is therefore also necessary that those who have been living in this country for a long time finally elect those who have been ruling here for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23091	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Dr Rosenkranz, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23158	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! The previous speakers of my group, Mr Josef Cap and Mr Alois Stöger, have, I believe, already reported everything on the content of the labour market integration law. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to tell you a short story. It is about the history of an unaccompanied youth who came to Austria at the age of 17 who has applied for asylum – this asylum procedure was carried out positively – who had enjoyed only five years of primary education in his native Afghanistan, from the 11th century onwards. A year of life in agriculture has been used and, as has been said, has fled to Austria at the age of 17. ==References====External links== He studied German in Austria, did certain jobs, received a work permit, and with 19 years of age. A job as a mason and formwork builder at an Austrian large-scale company is given a year of life. This training takes four years, he is now shortly before the examination. Aman Amiri is the best apprentice at this large company, the largest construction contractor in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ:STRABAG!]] He speaks German perfectly, he writes construction books, he has been awarded by the Chamber of Economics of Lower Austria as an apprentice of the year, and he has a great goal, he wants to become a politician in Austria. He's 24 years old now, and he'll do that. I met Aman Amiri on a visit to this apprenticeship academy and he told me when he came to Austria was his biggest problem of wanting to work and not speaking the German language. In these two years, he succeeded in re-enacting the primary school. I think there are many other people who have the same problems when they come to our country. The language is simply the most important, it is the bridge for integration, even for the jump into the job. This Aman Amiri said to me: Musically, if you can do one, then see that people get this bridge! With this year of integration, which is mandatory – which in the previous year was drawn up from history in the negotiations on the need-oriented minimum assurance of this concept by our Social Minister – which had not yet a majority in the ÖVP, which was not implemented in the course of the negotiations on demand-oriented minimum assurance, which was then agreed in the revision of the Federal Government's work programme for 2017/2018 and was also decided in the Committee with the votes of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, we now have to consult and deal with this bridge here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the sense of this story of Aman Amiri, it is an important law, and I thank our Minister of Social Affairs for his persuasion that he has stayed on it, for that is exactly what it is. I would like to add the following to my previous speaker, Mr Rosenkranz: To divide society cannot be our goal. Our goal must be to make benefit recipients from these service providers, to make service providers out of service providers, that we can quickly bring them into jobs – thank you for listening so attentively – but the main goal is that these people who are entitled to stay in Austria also have a chance of integration, language and a job. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are the beneficiaries anyway!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Let's say performance carriers!]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Of course!]] Thank you very much, Mr Sozialminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23262	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23284	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not happy with the fact that we are negotiating two government documents, which are going in very different directions, under one. I do not think the seriousness of the debate is good. In my speech, I too would like to focus on the labour market policy aspects of the proposals raised by Mr Muchich, and to say: I am convinced that this mandatory year of integration is a good package to support the integration of refugees into the labour market. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I believe that this method of competence, qualification check, German courses, support for professional orientation, and then concrete work training, work preparation is a good method – that is why we Greens have already introduced such a concept in 2015 as part of an application. This request is now considered to be taken into account by the decision of this mandatory year of integration, and I must say that I am not quite happy with the financing of this package, as there is a covert funding. That is, if the numbers of refugees do not develop quite as in your precalculations, it is to be feared that the concrete quality of the measures offered is not the one we hope for, or not all in the target group will get this opportunity. I would like to stress one point which my concept at the time very well contained and which is still outstanding, namely a training offensive for teachers who teach German as a foreign language. There is still a great lack of such teachers, and apart from this lack, there is also the phenomenon that these teachers are very often in difficult financial and social employment conditions, or that are not employment relationships at all, but partly self-employment; there is a need for action. Today, my colleague, Mr Korun, also mentioned the particular phenomenon of the need to link a German course with alphabetization, and the There is rarely any teaching offer in Austria. That is, for this particular challenge we definitely have far too few teachers. The second essential point I would like to stress is the one that Mr Muchich has referred to with the success story of the mason's apprentice, which is also my concern. It is about the target group of asylum seekers who are likely to stay, clearly described by FPÖ, that is to a great extent about young asylum seekers. I think it's good that these are getting a certain amount of education for the first time with this package, but I have to say it's a little half-hearted. Why don't we take full responsibility for these children? They are children according to the UN Convention on Children's Rights, and they have a right to education which has a right to support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you remember, ladies and gentlemen: It is not until the previous year that we decided on a training obligation here in the House. We Greens have made massive efforts to ensure that young asylum seekers are included in this training obligation. Unfortunately, the project has failed at the ÖVP, but I ask you to reconsider. It is good that there is now this mandatory year of integration, but if the apprentice named by colleague Muchich had been only a year younger, history would have looked different. He might have come to the integration year at the age of 16, and with 17 he would probably have been sitting on the parking lot again, maybe after reaching the 18th. Acknowledging his life so that he can't catch up with his family – and then he's an auxiliary worker. And we do not want to do that; not that an auxiliary worker is not good, but we know that people without qualifications do not have a sustainable opportunity in our labour market. It would therefore be important that we re-adjust here that young asylum seekers be integrated into the training requirement; I have also prepared a request for this today. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, ladies and gentlemen: Children are children, no matter where they come from, they need increased protection, but they also need increased support when starting a good life. That's why: Please consider again whether you cannot support this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23372	Mrs Mag. Treasured motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23444	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23486	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I focus on the Integration Act and I would like to remind you in advance of what integration actually means. Integration means the general involvement of people and groups excluded from certain social aspects so far. The term, however, is also used in the translation of integral from Latin for renewal, supplementing, mentally refreshing. Applying to the integration of people from other cultures, either for escape or for other reasons, on the one hand, this means a proper piece of work for the elderly people, but of course also for the majority society – but it also means a chance for positive further development of our society when we do it properly. The aim of this draft law is precisely to create the conditions for successful integration in order to enable a positive development of our society. If you ask yourself the question of what would be important for you, if you were in the situation of a refugee or a third-country national, then you would be able to come to similar answers very quickly, first of all through language knowledge with people, second by being self-sustainable in working life and thirdly becoming a respected member of the host society. In this way or so, most of us would probably respond, and we expect this to be the opposite of people who are from Whatever the reason, come to us. And precisely in this direction, the law aims with its various measures. With the provision of sufficient German courses after a uniform curriculum, in any case up to the language level A2, it is intended to ensure that simple communication in everyday activities such as shopping or medical visits will be possible very quickly. At the same time, value and orientation courses should help us to understand what basics and in what way living together works with us. So it should become so clear what democracy, what freedom of the individual means, what equality of gender means, and that these are the unnegotiable foundations of one another. If there are concerns and concerns as to whether this can be taught in courses, I say: Of course, you can communicate such content in a course with appropriate educational means. Another word for the ban: The Committee has repeatedly stressed that there are alleged examples from other countries, such as France, which show that this is toothless because the rich Sultan pays the penalty and the women still remain completely veiled. However, practically all – and this was also to be heard in the contributions today – have emphasized that they are in a negative position to cover up, and that is quite the problem. I therefore do not understand the attitude of some parts of the opposition, for it is also the task of a state, through laws and regulations, even though they may not affect so many people – but they are becoming more and more, we also know – to show, rather symbolically, what we want and what we do not want to do for good reasons. This is precisely what this law does with the prohibition of facial housing, which is also legistically waterproof and is secured by a statement of the EGMR. The question raised by Mr Scherak regarding women dressed up, namely whether women who are able to wear a burka want to integrate or are allowed to answer this question, I will leave the imagination of the individual. All in all: a very, very good law that will promote integration, and therefore a great thank you to our Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23535	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23556	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This law, Mrs Pre-Resister, is not a good law. This law will not only leave a few “luckles”, Mr. Cap, but there are some right canyons that leave a non-regulated legal area, because the Federal Government is doing this again inadmissible attempt to mix the issues of asylum and immigration. – Asylum and immigration cannot be mixed, these are two different areas of justice! Mr. Bundesminister Kurz, you might still have to finish your studies before you continue to rule. That would be a tip from my side. [[Abg. Fat: Necessary remark!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP was the party that coined the concept of asylum on time by the end of 2015. I thought that was a light moment in this party and we will finally have legal certainty and legal order. But that was only a very small light moment, unfortunately God's wasted again, and you prove by this law that it is only up to you to cover the failure of the Federal Government in the second half of 2015. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have once again proved with this impermissible mixture that you are not concerned with actually improving the states in the Republic, but it is only about staging. Your colleague in the Federal Government, Federal Chancellor Kern, has explained that he sees 95 percent staging and only 5 percent realization in the politics he makes. Mr Foreign Minister, I think you are making a big competition with this law in terms of staging rather than realization. We would rather that you make real policy and implement everything you announce consistently. [[Abg. Wenninger: For heaven's sake!]] Last year, you took over some elements of freedom, which we were pleased with, we also strengthened you in this way, but this law shows us that it is necessary to ensure that there is also the legal basis for it, because what you have said is only announcements, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last year, her coalition partner also formulated the immigration limit of 35 000 illegal immigrants per year, when there was still an urge at the borders. The ÖVP has stopped with 17 500. This dispute is then sent because the storm has ended at the borders, but these two figures remain politically in the room. The SPÖ is for illegal immigration of 35 000 people and the ÖVP for illegal immigration of 17 500. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, your number is only a little bit less bad than the number of SPÖ, just a little bit less bad. This is at least a small Austrian city that you want to have migrated annually, and that is not acceptable! We have to initiate a zero immigration so that we can finally deal with the problems created here by mass immigration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister for Integration, you must conclude a return agreement with everyone before even a tax schilling is issued, not an integration agreement! Asylum is a right to time, and if the reason for asylum has fallen away, these people will have to return. Mr Sozialminister, you are putting the doctors and social professions in play that we can need here. Yes, do you believe, in Syria, in Afghanistan, in Africa, you don't need a doctor? Do you think there's no need for people in social professions who care about people in need? That's cynical what you're saying here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The example of colleague Muchich is a good example, but it is an absolute exception. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] – An absolute exception, Mrs. Colleague! All those people who learn from us are the craftsmen, who will need to be rebuilt in these countries after the war has ended. Consider what path you have taken with this law, and be aware that it is a wrong path! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you should stop staging, especially you, Mr Foreign Minister, and start concrete implementation in your field!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23650	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23671	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! After this speech, I am very happy that colleague Dr. Bösch Obmann is the Freedom Party in Vorarlberg, because that makes the business a little easier for us there too. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are in favour of the integration law and the intention behind it, namely to lead the immigrants into the work process, but there are a few things to improve this law so that this goal can be achieved at all. We begin by setting a mandatory year of integration next to the voluntary year of integration. In view of the fact that the previous voluntary year of integration, in total, only 140 people in It is true that this voluntary year of integration could be taken out of the law right now, where the mandatory year of integration comes. After all, it was decided by this great deregulation principle law, with which the government has undertaken not to decide any senseless laws, nor to keep any senseless ones. The good intention, as the colleague Matznetter formulated at the time, has already been thrown overboard: We leave the old law meaningless and put a new one next to it. Approved refugees must now use this integration year, but asylum seekers with a high likelihood of survival can use it. – So why the one and the other, who are very likely to remain, do not have to, either, to be taken by themselves. And now comes the great foot of the horse of the law: This law, or this year of integration, will not lead anyone into the First Labour Market, because it is only for a civil service organisation to carry out this training within the framework of a non-profit activity. It is not allowed to learn a teaching profession in a normal company, in a construction company, colleague Muchitsch, or to go into a teaching profession, so that this work training may result in a fixed employment relationship, but only in civil service organisations that receive money from the public authorities to take care of it. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: They can do that!]] With this, you will produce more power, which is re-purchased by the public hand. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I've been saying that for years!]] That is to say, one is now paying civil service organisations so that, as the Republic of Austria, one can buy additional social benefits – that is how the social industry works in Austria, but thus you do not get a person in addition to the first labour market. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I said that too!]] These work-trainings will also produce coordination difficulties – says the AMS and the Economic Chamber in the review – because if one does not comply with the requirements, there should be a reduction in social benefits. But because different authorities are again involved and the left hand does not know what the right is doing, it will be difficult to implement, says the AMS. This, in turn, makes visible: We need a transfer database for social transfers so that the various authorities that transfer social benefits know at all what the other authority does – but of course we do not want to do so. A transfer database does not, in principle, want the ÖVP, because the funding jungle could become apparent, and the social transfers do not want the SPÖ to have disclosed, because the various acts would then be visible there. In reality, it is about carefully dealing with the tax money, seeing that the right ones get the money, and for that it needs this transparency and this database.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23750	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23771	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! There is still strong illegal immigration under the cover of asylum. There is still a greater number of counterparts. There is still more political Islam, radical Islamism. And we have criminal foreigners who cannot be postponed for years because the necessary return agreements are missing. What does this government do, thank God, is soon history? – Instead of pulling the emergency brake, it does not even turn a gear back. Yes Believe You really do, that the anti-facial law to be decided today is a measure, a suitable means to push back the influence of political Islam?! – In reality, this measure, which we will also agree with, is only a careful attempt to treat a disease which has spread like a cancer ulcer due to the naïve asylum and immigration policies of recent years and which is about to catapult our free, tolerant society back into the Middle Ages. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are all aware that we must not do nothing to ensure that people are consumed, heated or even driven into jihad by public dissemination of radical thoughts. We know that. It is true, even if only in the explanations and as Mr Rosenkranz has already said, to prevent distribution actions such as the Lies! distribution action, in which the Koran was distributed by radical Islamists. However, we believe that the approach we have chosen to use for road traffic regulation is a wrong approach.I asked Mr Sobotka in the committee if he knew how many cases have occurred in recent years in which the authorities needed this regulation to be decided. He couldn't answer it. In fact, this novelle has more symbolic character than it is in practice capable. It is, in fact, far too cumbersome in its process and really beyond reality, because the assumption that people who have it in mind to spread radical or religious thoughts go to the authority, make a request and then perhaps wait until the request for examination to be carried out within ten days is rejected is, in my opinion, very naïve. I do not think that this regulation will prove itself in practice. Rather, these people and groups will put themselves on the street or in a park and do their distribution activities. Also related to practice: What's the police doing on the spot? What should he do if he finds that these people do not interfere with traffic, but there is a suspicion that radical thought is being spread here? The Qur'an is indeed not prohibited as such. What does he do, then, if the authority is no longer reachable after the end of the term of service? If so, what is he to do with the State Office for Constitutional Protection? Who will decide? One thing has already been overlooked that one has already had a way of reacting legistically, for according to § 82 para. 6 Road traffic regulations may temporarily prohibit an institution of road traffic surveillance, which is undoubtedly police officers, from operating on the road. This possibility could have been used without further delay, perhaps even by writing into this provision, that, if the public order is at risk, the police officer should also have the possibility, if there is a serious suspicion, of stopping this event. We believe that this should have been done. This has not happened, therefore, remains to hope that there is still a rethinking, and perhaps – although no longer in this legislative period – a better law, which also has teeth, will be passed. That's why I think it's once again an attempt to do something. Something just for the sake of doing things, however, cannot be the sense and not the solution. That's why I think it's high time for new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23828	Before I give the floor to Mr Wenninger, an amendment to the minutes of the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior on item 1. The following corrections: 176 – and not 175 – votes, as announced; of which, as already announced, 30 “Yes” votes, but 146 – and not 145 – “No” votes. [[Call the FPÖ: Better yet!]] This has no effect on the result at last. Apparently, two cards are glued together when counting. However, these 176 names of Members who have taken part in the vote are found in the Stenographic Protocol. This can be checked at any time. [[See also p. 172.]] I now give the floor to Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23887	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a long-awaited step forward in the legislative framework for integration policy. Just a comment to my previous speaker: Mr Kumpitsch, you can of course talk things wrong, but it is a clear political signal when we decide to do so today: that the Austrian National Council and thus Austrian society says that we are in our open, pluralist society against full veiling and we are against and we want to prevent the distribution of Salafist, IS-interpreted Koran versions to the public. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can also speak well!]] The political statement is at the heart of this integration measure, which is next to the year of integration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally able to get into a structure where we are taking measures to prevent what has been criticized by you – namely that asylum seekers may come across stupid thoughts, wander around, have no chance of taking part in integration measures – and we are finally able to do so. We will not only multiply and bring together the offer, but also a commitment to accept it. These are precisely the concerns that the Austrians – partly also legitimate – have. The answer that is now on the table is a big step in the right direction, so that those who seek protection and help from us also have the opportunity to be promoted according to their abilities, but at the same time take the obligation to accept this offer as well. However, I would like to add a second aspect because this is already going through the debate all day and has become a sort of mainstream in the debate on the refugee and migration movement in recent months: It always says we brought the refugees to Austria. – Ladies and gentlemen, remember the end of August, beginning of September 2015: The people were there! People have fled their homes, for various reasons – from war zones, from civil war, from war, from social misery, from economic distress – and have fled to Europe. Remember the small truck in the summer heat near Parndorf: The parked car was opened, and there were 70 dead, including women and children. Remember the conditions at Keleti Station in Budapest, where thousands of people were left out by the Hungarian government under the most unworthy conditions, had no perspective; where refugees had taken a valid ticket to the bus, on the train to drive towards Germany, and were diverted by Hungary towards camps! At that time we said: These conditions are unworthy of man! The people who have fled must be helped! Then, for example, the Austrian Federal Railways ensured the transport of these people, mostly to Germany; then thousands of volunteer Austrians gave them clothing, water and food to those people who were there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You towed on!]] And we can be proud of that. I would like to point out that the attempt to reverse this and raise a mood is to blame for the fact that the migration and flight movement is coming to Europe, as if it were an ambition of European policy. We will always help when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23971	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Wenninger, it's nice that you're trying here as an apologist in your government, but I have to make it clear: It is not that this refugee crisis or immigration crisis has fallen from heaven. You have certainly heard of the Arab Spring before – which, I think, broke out in 2011, a few years have passed since. So it was possible – that is, many important experts – to expect anyone who has looked at the developments of foreign policy to see that there is a large flow of refugees coming upon us. It didn't fall from heaven. And you may well have been involved in these problems, because you have not taken the appropriate measures in good time. [[Abg. Wenninger: But you didn't understand anything!]] No, I understand everything, Mr. Wenninger. You are trying to explain the conditions, the problems we now have in terms of integration – and then you are still trying to push the blame away, because: How exactly was that? – The series after:... – No, don’t be angry with me, you should have taken action before. [[Abg. Wenninger: You made people starve?- Oh, my God!]] There's no one talking about hunger. Don't press the tearing gland! It was clear that if people in these crisis areas have problems, something has to be done there. This has not been made clear since 2015. But please, this is your own discussion. Let's go back to the debate! What we have here today – the previous speakers from my group have already said – is a debate on an integration law, which is obviously not enough and not enough, which is why we will not agree to it, as has already been said. This is a debate and a discussion on symptom control, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not dealing with it – and we are therefore at this point again, Mr Wenninger – to combat the causes, but rather superficially to approach the matter and carry out eye-catching. And it is a debate that we are too late for 20 years, because we could have thought about it 20 years ago. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have always warned that there will be problems. Today we have her. We live in 2017, Mr. Weninger, ladies and gentlemen, including colleagues from the ÖVP, and hundreds of thousands of people have come, not surprisingly, but unfortunately expected. There will be hundreds of thousands again – for we know what problems there are in Africa. Then you'll say again: We couldn't know that! That's how it happened, it's fallen from heaven! – We already have the situation that half of the children in the Vienna compulsory schools are Muslim faith. 40 percent of children in the Austrian compulsory schools are not German mother tongues. There this integration package, which we decide today, is almost ridiculous when I think about what is going to happen to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] – I can think for myself, Mr. Wenninger. Maybe that's where the General Secretariat has to prescribe it, otherwise. We liberals – I have already said so – have always warned about this, and we liberals have been thinking about solutions for many years. Even if you want to talk about this, there are some things that can be done in the area of the causes, and I may at this point give the initial aid for living parliamentaryism, which was proclaimed this afternoon, and put in place a motion for a resolution which Minister will probably know in his content, in particular, because it is only demands that he has taken over from us. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are all the demands that ministers Kurz, who are now also ÖVP-Obmann, have made. Now that the ÖVP has liberated itself from the SPÖ, we will hopefully be able to decide on that. In conclusion, I should like to say, in general terms, that: Mr Wöginger said today that it is about rights and obligations. I think that integration is above all a question of the will of those who come to us – a will that I unfortunately need to miss out on many immigrants. However, I also miss the will of both SPÖ and ÖVP to tackle the problems of integration in our country and its causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24103	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mölzer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24327	Next word: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24348	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. This Integration Act is based on the principle: Whoever has rights in Austria also has obligations. – I am Mrs Korun's committee has been very strongly attacked for this, but this principle is a prerequisite for a successful integration process, because this is the only way to expect more social acceptance. Only if the population knows that there is also an obligation to integrate and not only integration funding, which naturally has to be paid with tax money, can more understanding be achieved. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Since I am convinced that successful integration only takes place through integration into the labour market, i.e. in the enterprises, it is of course also very important from my point of view that part of this law, which provides for German, Value and Orientation courses. Because of my professional experience, I can report at home both in the international group and in our companies: The mastery of the German language and the knowledge and acceptance of our law and order of values are fundamental conditions for refugees to have an opportunity to be accepted by the employees in the company at all. As a boss you can only create the framework conditions, but you can't force integration, because in general, an additional employee in the team, whether foreigners or Austrians, means a change for the team, usually also an additional effort for those employees who perform the training. Therefore, the conditions for positive inclusion in the holding must be established in advance, and I am glad that the Federal Minister has so rigorously regulated in this draft law with the declaration of integration, or with the integration agreement, but also with the mandatory range of values and German courses, and also with the planned sanctions, because this is not a shock, but in terms of protection and opportunities for those entitled to asylum on the labour market. I am not only one of those who talk about integration and labour market integration, but I am also involved in implementing projects in practice, and on Thursday at my annual educational and teaching fair, I invited all the support associations from my district, the asylum seekers and asylum seekers, as well as the entrepreneurs to exchange and get to know each other, of course, with the aim of bringing these young people into a teaching profession or part-learning. The basis for this success is this integration law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24397	The next one is Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24418	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr Muchich is not present, I think, but I would like to replicate his remarks. The very heart-warming story of Amiri – so was, I think, the name – that became the apprentice of the year, perhaps one should clarify a little: This is due to the apprenticeship offensive of Presidency Minister Hundstorfer. Maybe short to the results: On average, two students from the asylum field have graduated in Austria. Millions of costs – two have managed. We met one of them, the amiri. I don't know the second one. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Where do you have the numbers?]] – This is due to a request from the Ministry of Social Affairs, you can have it. This action was started by dog peaters. So two did it, one we met. Only: If we are already in these heart-warming stories, I could also tell you a heart-warming story – Mrs. Pfurtscheller of the ÖVP is no longer here – from Tulln, for example; but I do not know if this story from Tulln of a 15-year-old is so heart-warming. So there are enough stories on this topic. I do not want to continue to deepen it, but in the context of this whole immigration issue, we have a wealth of problems – in the labour market, in the housing market, in the health sector, in the education sector – and I do not see from ÖVP and SPÖ a solution that really addresses the root. We have been saying about FPÖ for years now that it is necessary to take note of the realities. But that doesn't happen. I have mentioned the numbers several times: In reality, not since 2015, 2016, but for 20 years, immigrants who cannot be integrated into the labour market have come. All developments – both in the AMS and in the case of minimum security, emergency aid and, and – show a clear picture: These people are not integrable to 90 percent in the labour market. And they stay there, they have to be provided, they have to live. It's a time bomb that's socially rolling on us. In the meantime, please all Members of this House should recognize this and really put it at the root. Mr Cap is no longer present. Whenever my colleague Cap smiles at the speaker's desk, I know he's not actually telling the truth. [[Abg. Wenninger: Ooh! ... a friendly person!]] And my colleague Cap knew very well where to go. Perhaps now quite specific to the labour market integration package – perhaps you have to explain this again –: What's this about? – It is basically about starting activities for a target quantity, I say, or target size of 15,000 asylum seekers or asylum seekers for a year, enabling them to learn German, to read and write, to obtain vocational orientation or professional qualifications. The background is relatively clear: The package costs slim 150 million € per year. Since perhaps also a small excursion for the ÖVP: The craftsman bonus costs € 25 million a year – only as a comparison. And also for the SPÖ: For home children who have been abused, we spend €8 million a year. [[Abg. Yılmaz: We have always celebrated it. Aren't you ashamed at all?]] Just so much to make a comparison. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Are you not ashamed to address the suffering of the children of home? How do you tick?]] And what should be the goal after this one year? – Now 15 000 asylum seekers are included in this training programme. What happened after a year? – After a year nothing will have happened. You move the problem to the future, but you don't solve it. That, as I said, is the main problem for me: It is not recognised that this number of immigrants in recent years and decades is a problem for us in Austria, which is not soluble. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Not for you! We're working on it!]] It belongs to a zero migration! And I don't hear this statement – I don't hear it from the SPÖ anyway, but I don't hear it from the ÖVP either. Maybe to make it short: I would ask you, Minister Stöger, to take care of the Austrians as Minister of Social Affairs. We have enough social problems to solve in Austria – poverty and so on, including social exclusion. There is enough for you in Austria to do for Austrians. And you, Minister Kurz, would ask that you go on your way to Morocco, perhaps, especially for Tyrol and Innsbruck, to really get rid of these around 250 criminals who have been terrorizing the whole of Tyrol for a decade. That would be a great job. If you do, you have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24516	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24568	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! – Let’s start as it belongs! Mr Wurm! I don't know. How do you tick? [[Abg. Neubauer: What do you mean by “How do you tick?”?]] They stand here, take the fate of the children of their homes, and count it against each other. That's actually crazy. It's incredible! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mrs. Colleague, the SPÖ has committed a crime on these children of home!]] There are problems – and here are the solutions! We work for solutions! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: These were all SPÖ-functionaries! An excuse would be...! Excuse me! ... happened in Vienna under SPÖ leadership!]] By the way: This Federal Government works for Austrians as well as for those for whom we have taken responsibility, who have sought protection and received protection from us. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 300 €, Mrs. Colleague! 300 € per month!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] [[Abg. New builder: How do you tick?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Integration works through exchange, language courses, skills and work. All of this is strengthened by the measures in the labour market integration law to be adopted. It is comprehensive, it includes language acquisition, value and orientation courses, qualifications and work training, and it is aimed at girls, boys, men and women. The measures included in the Labour Market Integration Act are actually a paradigm change in Austria. For the first time, integration is started at an early stage and people are not forced to do nothing for years. And for the first time, there is a uniform and structured programme for the integration of asylum-seekers, eligible persons and asylum-seekers with high likelihood of recognition, for the whole of Austria. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able by this law to empower people to independence as early as possible. By the way: The service check has not been mentioned. The service check also legalizes a project in Vorarlberg, which was very successful but not legal. There are now also asylum seekers after three months of stay access to the service check. Mr Scherak is not here, but nevertheless I would like to tell him because he quoted me and also some other Members, women and also men,... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He's here anyway!]] - He just came in. I'd like to tell him: I still stand to my opinion on the burka carriers. I don't think we're gonna get through this law to free the women as someone might have in mind. This is symbolic policy; but this labour market integration law is very important to me, because with this law we will help thousands of people, but probably in Austria we will punish 70 citizens in total. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing: Everyone thanked Minister Stöger. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] - You thanked yourself too. Okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24701	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24723	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Dear colleagues in the House! Philosopher Adorno once said: “There is no real life in the wrong.” – This is a very important sentence, for it is precisely the current situation: We're doing the right thing now by helping people integrate people, but that's based on wrong conditions. In fact, we have not resolved the fundamental questions. And we are constantly running a mixture of terms and facts. We mix the concept of asylum with that of immigration, we mix the concept of repatriation with that of deportation and so on, and so on. We are not going through this – and we have to do that in this House, because we owe it to the people – to finally call the real things by the right name. I would like to put this into practice for all those who do not feel compelled to take correct action here or to use correct disciplines. We need to distinguish between asylum and immigration, and unfortunately we do not do so with this integration law – in no ideal way! If we ask the population today: What do you want, dear Austrians?, then the Austrians will ask us: Why are we investing billions in immigration and doing almost nothing for the return of those people who have no right of residence in Austria? – These are fundamental issues that have still not been clarified. We doctors around the surface help a few people who may really need help, but have Moroccan et cetera here in Austria, for example, which we do not bring home. The second and even more important question of principle is that of culture. Name: How do we deal with this foreign culture, whose world view is diametrically opposed to the Western, democratic world view? – Even as we walk along lines of discussion, we sit down with representatives of the Islamic community, debate on pods, but have no clear position. Austria has not yet taken a clear position, which we are actually doing with this foreign culture, which does not really know the word and the concept of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this threatens the Western rule of law in its foundations. That must be clear to us, we must express it. We need to talk to the people who come to us, touches, and clearly put our Western values, which we always like to describe so cloudily, on the table and say: In return, what do those who come to us and want to stay with us put on the table? – They must make a confession to Austria, they must make a confession to the Australian culture and they must live after it. And because I constantly hear the word integration, I now oppose the concept of integration the term assimilation. If we really want to have a future here in peace, we must place much more emphasis on assimilation and not on integration. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Olympians: Oh, God!]] In the long term, we only operate eye-removing with integration. We have to make that clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24759	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24781	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Presiding, you have asked for basic rules. – We have long established basic rules, namely very clear rules on how we want to deal with people who come to us who want to live with us. These clear rules are being cast into action today. And that's what we want to do. We all want to live together peacefully in our beautiful country. Whether this is possible depends very much on whether the integration of refugees succeeds or not. Where are we going? – Integration must begin earlier than it has been, and it must be promoted, but it must also be called for. It means: Anyone who wants to live with us must learn German, everyone who is able to do so must make himself useful in society. This also creates a better climate for each other. And everyone who comes from another culture must learn our values, know them, and respect them. How is this going to work? . The measures we are taking today should contribute to this. In the future, it must not be that young men stand around in groups in the parks and simply have nothing to do. Therefore, from now on, there is the mandatory year of integration. It is aimed at asylum seekers and also asylum seekers with high probability of recognition. Mr Stöger has done all of this very clearly. There are offers for work training, linguistic and professional qualifications. The aim is – and I would like to stress this very much – to achieve that these people can get themselves sometime – saying: own wages instead of minimum security. We want to get there. But one thing must be clear: The success of all integration measures depends on how many people will flow into our country in the future. In other words, the flow of refugees to Austria must be reduced. It's important to me to say one more thing to the Burka ban, because many spectators may wonder why we're constantly talking about a Burka ban and maybe they haven't seen a woman with a whole-body veil in their surroundings: The Burkaver ban is a signal to us. That's what we're signaling: That has no place in our country! Symbols against freedom, against equality have no place with us! We don't want a symbol of a counterpart! We want to preserve and secure the peaceful living together in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24832	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! To the Integration Act: With the reception of Zig thousands of refugees – almost exclusively economic and social refugees – Austria is faced with massive costs to be incurred by the taxpayer. It is important that Austria calls for integration of asylum refugees, even if asylum is only a right to time. Integration is the prerequisite for a stay in Austria at different levels. Contributions to integration are made extensively and with a high financial effort by Austria, in return by foreigners, which at least prove the recognition of domestic forms of action. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is particularly true of the female population. In this context, Burka as well as headcloth in the public sector should be prohibited as discriminatory. It is the same with the integration of foreign men with Austrian citizenship in relation to the basic defence service. There can be no understanding that the prescribed military headgear, for example, will be replaced by a turban. This is the wrong path of integration. Similarly, a string of domestic food, such as pork in school kitchens, hospitals and such facilities, as well as their replacement with Halal meat, which was won by animal-poverty shafts, are an integration into the wrong direction. Although education and a fixed job make a significant contribution to integration, a persistently high number of unemployed workers should be given priority to the placement of Austrian job seekers. Austria's legislation is in many areas coordinated with the federal states or is based on national legislation. In the case of the integration of refugees, the need for a uniform federal legislation must be required. A social equal or even better creation of foreigners vis-à-vis the domestic population must be rejected just under the cover of integration. Asylum is not a right to Duration and use of asylum must be prevented by all means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24897	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24918	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today: We are taking a very big step today, we are introducing today the mandatory year of integration. It is about faster and more efficient integration into the labour market and into society – a very important step, as I mean – and it will benefit thousands, i.e. 15 000 migrants and asylum seekers. There is an appropriate fee to be paid to ensure the level of minimum security. I am also saying this because I am still reminded, Minister Kurz, that you have constantly spoken about one-euro jobs, that the talk was that we only have one euro to pay. I am glad that this proposal has not been accepted that you have not enforced it, because people also have their existence to take time, and therefore an appropriate remuneration is simply necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed throughout the day how SPÖ and ÖVP could work together for the next few weeks, and a few points have been raised that will be tried to make the decision. It's about important materials. It has been said – specifically by the Secretary-General of the ÖVP – to bring the abolition of the cold progression to the stage. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, this is interesting because there is a ready proposal to do so. In the Coalition Convention all of this has been done, all the Federal Ministers have signed it, but nothing has gone on to this day. I would like to say again today: People need money urgently, and I can ask for a solution here. It is about credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You too should comply with agreements once the signature has been suspended. The second point concerns the employment bonus. This is about reimbursement of additional wage costs. I do not quite understand you, Madam Presidentck, who you were at the speaker's desk earlier: It would have to be a far-reaching concern for your part to help companies to get half of the additional wage costs reimbursed. For three years, 30 000 companies would benefit from 50 percent of the additional wage costs, because 2 billion € are available. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Would you like to talk about the agenda?]] This also applies to the employment initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, which is about creating opportunities for unemployed people over 50 years of age to get back into employment faster. 102 000 people are currently affected, and when we look at their fates, we know that the one hundred application letters are often necessary, and then there is no job available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] That is why I believe that we should not rob these people of this opportunity and bring this matter to the stage. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: All of this is not for debate now!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The EIA is also measured by those actions that we may still be able to carry out together. People are waiting for them to see actions and not just hear beautiful speeches, they want us to make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24987	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25009	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course integration is desirable, integration is important. And at all the discus- We must not forget that there have been many people who have come to us over the last few decades who have been very well integrated. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also know that integration has limits that it will be very, very difficult to integrate a 45-year-old Afghan who may still be illiterate into our system in such a way that at the end of the day he is a valuable member of society and can make a positive contribution to the economy. We also know that new challenges – keyword: Digitalization – it comes to us and that people who are poorly trained will have it very, very difficult on the labour market. When we talk about integration, we also have to say that integration has already been extremely bad. If, according to a study, 70 percent of young Turks in the second generation do not feel Austrian in Vienna, then integration in this country does not work, then parallel societies form. In this area, Mr Minister, I place major political failures. There is an acute need for action. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not agree with the Year of Integration Act for two reasons: Firstly, like the FPÖ and NEOS, we believe that it would make sense to integrate these people into the First Labour Market and not to hire people from civil service organisations so that they can take care of the asylum seekers. In the word asylum seekers, I have to say: It can't be that we're going to pass a law that says: Asylum seekers are “highly likely” to be granted. That's what I'm asking myself: “With high probability” where there is not even a legal basis?- Oh, my God! It'll happen to me like if a cop stopped someone and said, With high probability, you're driving too fast, and that's why you're getting a criminal warrant now! So a law in which “with high probability ” is in place and in which it is not even formulated, who actually is concerned and how, from our point of view, is more to be called and rejected as a brush; therefore, we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25054	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25075	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Those who want to live in Austria must comply with our rules of play, they must accept and respect our values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the present Integration Act, policy is responding to current developments that have not yet occurred in the form of a year or two years ago, as is the case today. This law does not have a symbolic character, as we were accused of in committee, but it implements necessary measures. It is primarily a law on better integration of recognised refugees and eligible beneficiaries and serves to further improve existing framework conditions. That is why it is also necessary for us to thank our Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Sebastian Kurz for his tenacity and for his endurance. he has pursued this project – this law – over the last months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was he, ladies and gentlemen, who has not let go of the Council of Ministers and has repeatedly brought this to the fore. Integration is not a one-way road, we know, and with this law we create very clear framework conditions and orientation: first, the obligation to communicate our language and our values, second sanction possibilities by reducing social benefits when integration measures are refused. One thing has to be clear – we have already heard this today –: Whoever has rights, he also has obligations! We create an integrative obligation and thus prepare people optimally for participation in working and social life. An open society, ladies and gentlemen, must have the right to stand up for the Wehr, and precisely for this reason, the Integration Act also includes measures against symbols of a counter-companion such as the Facial Ban or the so-called Burkavert. The Burka is the symbol of political Islam, which is deliberately carried to Austria. We do not want that in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Both, the prohibition of full veiling and the prohibition of Koran distribution actions by Salafists, are strong signals for our guiding culture and against parallel societies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me keep the following: No one wants refugees to deny or even forget their homeland when they come to Austria, but everyone can demand that the people who come to Austria respect and respect our values and accept them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25145	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I would also like to thank the Minister for doing what is necessary. But unfortunately he did not do that, but he talked about it. [[Abg. Amon: Hey!]] He's been talking about things, that's right. He said: The immigration policy, cannot remain the same as it is now, we need to rethink in principle. What the EU is doing is towing in a big way, and an NGO insanity leads to further tearing down the gates. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] He has recognized that the roof of our entire immigration and asylum system is at risk. But what did he do? – He started painting the kitchen on the ground floor, and I can’t thank you for that. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] If you are in a vulnerable object, at least once you have to try to plow the roof, and not say to the people: Don't look at the roof, we're not talking about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Perhaps otherwise – Mrs. Korun is not in the hall now – the Koruns of this world could come and talk about racism and fascism and so on. [[Abg. Rädler:... arsons...!]] We're not talking about that, but we're talking about painting the kitchen down below! Let us integrate the asylum seekers into the labour market, and let us equal the asylum seekers, the recognised, the possibly recognised, and those who may be eligible for subsidiary protection! We'll discuss this for three or four months, and we'll let the other go! - It can't be. I must also say this to Minister Stöger; You speak quite differently than Minister Kurz, but you also support the closure of the Western Balkans route, you also support the Turkey Treaty. In other words, it is also clear to you that we do not have to do with the protection of poor people who flee from war, need, terror and persecution, otherwise you would not support it. For example, if the people of Turkey really had to flee because of persecution, then it would be most immoral and unthinkable for a social democrat to close the Western Balkans route, because then we would have to be open and then we would have to share with everyone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also the doubleness: On the one hand, it is quite clear that we are dealing with a mass phenomenon of immigration for economic reasons, which breaks down upon us under the coat and under the pretext of seeking asylum; that is clear, otherwise, one would not take the measures and welcome them. On the other hand, however, one continues to pretend that what is clear to you is not so, and talks about integration. On the one hand, we are harming our labour market, on the other hand, further incentives for mass immigration from the Third World are being made, because those who are easier to integrate into the labour market receive an additional sugar. It is therefore delivered to the networks of the tractors further ammunition, it is made free advertising for them. – And the house is not even discussed, let alone restored. Last: Of course, it is not social, because – and you know this too, Minister Stöger – the accommodation of a single asylum seekers in Austria costs thirty times as much as support on the ground. That is to say, the one who comes over everything that has the recklessness, the hardness, perhaps also the criminal energy and, above all, the money to buy his way to Austria, is supported by the thirty-fold of the one who would need support in order to get home over the rounds. [[Abg. Wöginger talks to Federal Minister Kurz.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mr. Minister!]] So what is done is lying, wrong, social and vehement against the interest of our own people. That is to say, we as representatives of the people should finally end this, not just mentioning things by name, but also treating them accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25259	Mr Wöginger, I would ask you not to have a cross-border discussion with ministers on the government bank, because this is not common to us, while a representative speaks. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... incredible!]] [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25297	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a special day for the National Council, but today is also a very good day for integration: The SPÖ and the ÖVP will jointly adopt this Integration Act. It is about making it clear that asylum as well as integration is not only about rights, but clearly it is also about obligations. I believe that good and successful integration is based on three pillars: The first pillar is, of course, the German language in Austria. The second pillar is that those who come make an active contribution to integration. The third pillar, of course, is work and training; it is also about the fact that asylum seekers can then obtain themselves, which is quite, very important. The SPÖ has fought for the mandatory year of integration, there have also been long negotiations with the ÖVP, and one aspect of this is the charitable work. Let's take a look at what's possible, according to the Civil Service Act: This concerns, for example, the transport of sick people, the use of children's tickets, the care of the disabled, but also the care of the elderly. It will be decided very individually who is suitable for what. It is therefore about auxiliary services, and an active contribution from those who have sought asylum or are already asylum-based is better than inactivity. It has been said many times that the wandering in parks, in public space is not welcome, it sometimes also leads to aggressiveness in homes. As a result, this measure of the year of integration is much more useful. This means that, in connection with the year of integration, it is about duties, training, but also sanctions if someone does not participate; it is possible to reduce the minimum level of insurance or other social benefits. I think that's legitimate. I would also like to say something on the subject of full veiling, i.e. to complete facial cover: Don't let's look away from that. I believe that – in the sense that Austria is an open society – open communication also belongs to it. Let us address the reality: What does full cover mean in school? What does full veiling mean for the teacher-student ratio? What does that mean in the hospital? What does this mean in official acts? What does that mean in the neighborhood? For all these reasons, I clearly say yes to the fact that we enforce this measure against full veiling. An open society should also be able to defend itself and clearly formulate and name its principles. I must say, for the Integration Act, the ÖVP was an indispensable partner. The ÖVP has a high level of expertise in integration; almost every month a political overflower is successfully intrigued in the ÖVP club, apologies, integrated. [[General hustle and bustle.]] – Intrigued or integrated, this is the question here! However, I doubt that this corresponds to the democratic will of voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25357	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft labour market integration law in 1585 of the supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Mag. Loacker. First of all, I want to vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on this subject. 1 § 5 para. 3 Z 7 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Treasure, colleagues and colleagues on opening up to 18 years of training for young asylum seekers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which amends an Integration Act and an Anti-Facial Coverage Act, as well as the Branch and Residence Act, the Asylum Act 2005, the Foreign Police Act 2005 and other laws, in 1586 of the Supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by Dr Walter Rosenkranz as well as another request for a separate vote by Dr Scherak. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted on. With regard to Article 2, there is a desire for a separate vote by Dr Walter Rosenkranz as well as by Member Dr. Scherak. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Article 2 as amended by the Government's proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 7 as amended by the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the prohibition of headscarfing in kindergartens, schools, universities, public services and public buildings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – That is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the Federal Minister's policy on announcement. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:23:40]] 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1583, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Support of Municipal Investments (Communal Investment Act 2017 – KIG 2017) (1618 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25537	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25565	Mr President. Mr Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! What is included in the Community Investment Act 2017? – It includes providing municipalities with € 175 million for 2017 and 2018 for municipal investment. This means nothing but money for construction investments in schools, kindergartens, senior care facilities, sports and leisure facilities, but also, of course, for the creation of so urgently necessary, cost-effective housing and infrastructure, as well as broadband development. We consider this to be a very important and good initiative, but we believe that there is some need for improvement – well, because we believe that communities need urgent support in their investments; well, because we think it is necessary that rural areas are actually strengthened and more attractive. We are deeply convinced that we need modernisation of infrastructure at all levels, and of course it is also good for job creation. – These are the positive points, but the 2017 Community Investment Act is an example that well meant not necessarily that it was also well done. What is to be improved? – The first point is the division key. Very briefly: The total has been divided, among other things, according to the classified population key as a directive. That means nothing but that the smallest municipality, Gramais in Tyrol, gets just 944 €, but the city of Vienna for that, but more than 40 million €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I am convinced that there is a misunderstanding that there is a need for another distribution key that strengthens the small communities in the regions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point: The quality criteria are missing, and I think this is a very big manco, because if tax money is taken into control, then it must also be controlled accordingly and priorities must be set. Measures are being promoted on construction and renovation. There is a need for clear quality criteria to achieve higher objectives, such as the enforcement of federal spatial planning objectives and, of course, climate change targets. To the spatial planning objectives: Think of the entrances to the districts! If you drive somewhere in Austria, they are very similar. You can almost no longer say where you are going, because the entrances due to these so-called specialist market centres now look very similar everywhere. What results from these spatial planning errors when such centres, building markets and so on are located outside? – The inner cities, the cores of the town are losing attraction. We think that's a huge problem. You will certainly see this with you in the region, in the larger communities and in the district cities. It takes clear criteria to deal with resources, land and soil carefully and sparingly in order to strengthen the urban and urban cores. There are good examples of this, such as new life in old walls. It is precisely according to this principle that these investments should also be made. Of course, it is important to maintain the architectural heritage, but of course it should also be further developed in the contemporary sense. It is also quite clear that we have a climate agreement, the Paris climate agreement, and that is exactly what should be taken into account in investment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are convinced that the communities in their sustainable development should be given precise support, that quality criteria should also be established; of course, as a measure of this, we can also use the already in preparation of the Federal Building Cultural Guidelines. These are currently being prepared by the Advisory Board for Building Culture in the Federal Chancellery. Ladies and gentlemen, a consultative board established in the Federal Chancellor's Office is proposing guidelines, and I believe that it is the minimum that these guidelines should also be taken into account in this form. The law for this Advisory Council was passed in 2009 and the members of the Advisory Council for Building Culture are representatives from all Federal Ministries, the Federal Property Society, the Federal Monument Office, the cities and municipalities as well as ten external experts. Ladies and gentlemen, this is therefore urgently necessary. It is a complement to today's law, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As has been said, ladies and gentlemen, especially from ÖVP and SPÖ, we think it is urgently necessary to anchor quality criteria, and we still have months to make an appropriate improvement. Therefore, to you the urgent request to support this issue today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25671	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25725	Mr Ing. May. Groß is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25747	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The communities are those political bodies in which the citizens are closest to working together. The mayors of the small towns know almost every citizen personally. The communities are those cells where the design is carried out, be it local nature, but also in social cohabitation. In recent years, however, the tasks of the municipalities have become more and more diverse, even because of the activity here in the House, which has been laid down in terms of environmental measures, whether in the water and canal fields, whether in the area of spatial planning or in the field of health issues, whether in the case of social contributions or much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] As a result, the free financial peak of the municipalities is shrinking and, unfortunately, investment is also taking place. The government is aware of this fact and has put in place a number of measures to counter it, whether we have started, in financial compensation, to convert the funds to task orientation, whether we have made a fund out of which particularly disadvantaged communities receive money, or whether it is today through the Community Investment Act with which we are trying to make funds available to these communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] With this municipal investment law, we are promoting additional construction investments with 25 percent of the construction costs, and what is very important in this issue is that a breakdown is carried out, through which all communities receive money. In other investment promotions, there is always limited budget resources, and these funds are to be allocated in such a way that each municipality has something of them. This is why there is a fixed division here. In addition, it is important that economic owners are not placed on civil owners, so that associations and mergers can also collect the money. In one point, I have to give my colleague Lichtenecker the right to: A wormhead drop is that in the distribution of funds there is a mixture of classified population keys and the population number and thus larger communities get more than small. Nevertheless, this is a major improvement to the other financial compensatory measures in which the allocation towards large municipalities takes place much more strongly. The mayors of the municipalities know relatively exactly where the shoe is pressing, and even if, with the € 175 million, not all spatial planning problems will be able to solve all the problems relating to climate protection, I believe that our mayors are able to use their resources exactly where it is best in the respective community. [[Abg. Brunner: Exactly!]] Even though the amounts for each municipality are not so large, with these investments we trigger a total investment of € 760 million and can guarantee up to 8 460 jobs. In other words, this direct promotion of the communities triggers indirect promotion of the economy, employees and families in the country or in general in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Krainer.]] With this Community investment law, we have a very good strategy to advance investment. We have seen this in the grants for small businesses, but also for large businesses, and we are continuing to do so with the municipalities. This money is well established. It will be well used in the communities. It will be a positive development in rural areas and will thus also contribute to the growth of the Austrian economy. I am therefore grateful for the broad support and also thank you for the fact that the Greens will probably also agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25831	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25852	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yes, the idea is good, because the additional investment that is triggered by it supports the economy, which is already a delicate plant. Unfortunately, however, the implementation of such a large number of deficits is responsible for the fact that we cannot agree to this law. Some of these shortcomings have already been carried out by my colleague, Ruperta Lichtenecker. . I would like once again to sum up these criticisms that we have concerning this law. First of all, it is already problematic if we focus the distribution of these target grants on the graded population key and the population population. We have already been a little further in financial compensation: We have talked about a task-oriented financial compensation, and I would add in this context that, of course, investment must also be channeled to the needs. This does not happen at all in this draft, because the targeting of the population means that certain communities are more strongly encouraged, other communities are less favoured and, in particular, structurally weak communities are greatly neglected by the exclusive orientation of the population. – That’s one of the criticism points. Another criticism is that one should try to see in what direction we want to invest, because if I look at what is being promoted, it is possible to promote almost everything, from swimming bands to settlement water management. But we have to take into account where the needs lie, whether there are oversupplys, whether there are undersupplys, in which areas there are undersupply – and there you have to invest. And where, for example, are there under-services? – In the ecological field, there are those, I think, but also in other areas. Another point is that there is essentially the use of the casting can and – I have already suggested this anyway – with an insufficient orientation of needs, of ecological criteria. At the same time, however, I must maintain in this context that multi-promotions are also explicitly possible, and if multi-promotions are allowed, this naturally means that this will create significant take-up effects. This should actually be excluded, because if we already want to promote, then we want to promote specifically and not with the casting pot. Funding with the casting can is yesterday's investment policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A further point is finally and finally also the resolution, which is extremely complicated and bureaucratic, and little understanding, Mr. Finanzminister, I have in fact also for the accounting agency to carry out this resolution. How does the accounting agency have the appropriate know-how? – Actually, I don't see that. To sum up, this is an implementation that reflects the old thinking of the financial compensatory partners. The thinking in ancient cultural patterns, I mean, should finally be overcome. What we need is an investment policy of tomorrow based on appropriate criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25910	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25931	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the municipality investment law makes it possible for the communities to start additional projects, and for me it is really very surprising that one now sends away from the Greens to disprove the law at various levels. [[Abg. Rossmann: The implementation, Mrs Colleague! The implementation, I have expressly emphasized! You didn't listen to me!]] [[Abg. Lichtenecker: The implementation!]] – Yes, I listened very well! I can't imagine any mayor, any mayor can start a project and get no permits. All permits to be obtained in other areas must, of course, also be collected in this support. I therefore believe that it is a good law if one can suddenly make day care facilities, senior care, certainly also building renovation, waste disposal and so on, what one has not budgeted and could not budget, because simply the financial resources were not available. – It is simply unnecessary to misrepresent this law here, in whatever way and by any means. As a local speaker, I very much welcome the adoption of this measure. The government knows that the largest public investor is the municipalities, and has therefore become active in this field, which is simply a valuable thing. € 175 million will be allocated for grants and will now be calculated on the basis of certain criteria, on the one hand, on the basis of the population and on the other hand on the basis of the population key, on the other hand. In this context, it is also important that the award is made directly from the federal government to the municipalities, with which we have practically crossed a barrier. This is also a innovation that does not happen in other funding. Of course, it does not remain with the above-mentioned investment amounts, which is so, there are additional effects: It is expected that about € 760 million will come out of total investment. If you promote 25 percent and take the whole four times, it already has a pretty powerful force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] If money is left, then the Structural Funds, of course, are divided into communities. This can only be seen positively, so these messages have irritated me very much at the beginning. [[Abg. Lightenecker: But!]] Of course, this will also invigorate the labour market in the construction sector, and these measures are especially beneficial to the many rural communities. This also shows an analysis of the budget service – I can quote it here: ‘The grants will also lead to the promotion of regional crafts and construction companies’. Now it is about us selling it positively that we tell the communities where and where they can pick up the money and where they can invest. We're all called to do this. These investments mean a further step towards maintaining or improving the quality of life of rural people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26013	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26035	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleague, I too have listened carefully, and Mr Rossmann has just said that he does not fully agree with the use of funds, but that he is against the whole concept. We are discussing today a government template to support communities. With a financial support from the federal government to the municipalities of € 175 million for the years 2017 and 2018, investment activities are to be stimulated. The aim is to promote additional projects such as kindergartens – very important! –, schools – very important! –, senior care – also very important! –, sports venues – also very important! –, thermal renovation, public transport, housing, broadband network and so on. All of this is supported by these financial resources. This is an important approach, as communities are being burdened with increasing tasks, so there is an urgent need for support and relief. Above all, we have heard from this point of view often and from every party that rural areas are particularly important. It is therefore necessary to strengthen rural areas in all cases. Mr Rossmann asked whether the allocation in this form was exactly the right one. I, too, doubt this, because this award will keep financial or residentially weak communities on the track or have a disadvantage. This proposal would have been more useful if necessary, but it is better than nothing and therefore in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26062	I now come to the floor, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26083	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! The good thing about the Community Investment Act 2017 is that municipalities and cities will be provided with €175 million less administrative costs for infrastructure investments; therefore We shall also agree to this law. But the bad thing about this law is the implementation. The red and black government is constantly able to implement simple measures in an administrative and complicated manner. This municipality investment law is a bureaucracy sample similar to that of the non-renewed craftsman bonus. The € 175 million reduction in administrative costs will be distributed to the municipalities on the basis of the population and the graduated population key. We already know exactly how much each municipality receives: Vienna receives 40 831 000 €, Bishops' Courts 197 618 €, Forstau in Salzburg 9 663 € and the smallest municipality in Austria, Gramais in Tirol, 944 €. There are no qualitative criteria for the aid, such as the need for a municipality or a region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light ecker]] However, if there are no qualitative criteria, but only the money is distributed to the municipalities, there is no need for administrative and complicated implementation. First, the municipality has to submit an application to the Federal Accounting Agency. The accounting agency shall then review the documents and report the applications to the Minister of Finance on a monthly basis. The Minister of Finance, in turn, informs the Federal Chancellor on a monthly basis. The decision-making power to grant the grant of the grant and its transfer will then be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance again, and until 31. In January 2021, the municipalities will have to prove their commitment to the use of the funds. In addition, the federal government can carry out individual case checks, and in the end this federal law will be subject to an evaluation. Many communities receive only a few thousands, and for these small communities the same administrative machinery is set in motion as in the city of Vienna, which receives almost € 41 million. Here again the bureaucrats anone is shot on spats. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The costs of the federal government for the settlement and for the resolution agency are reported in the WFA with approximately €2.18 million. However, these €2.18 million are only half the truth, because of course the administrative burden for the 2 100 municipalities in connection with the application and the subsequent proof of the proper use of funds must also be added. This will cause further administrative expenses of at least €2 million, but this would mean that 2.5 percent of the €175 million allocated could not be used for municipal investment but would be used for the management of the target grant. Why not solve this as in the case of family aid? – Family aid has been paid inappropriately since May 2015, because all the data are available in the Ministry of Finance. And because the Ministry of Finance also has all the data of the municipalities, it would be reasonable and cost-effective to pay out this grant without any request. If the Minister of Finance cannot even formulate a two-sided law without a bureaucracy ballast, then we are away from a simplification of tax law light years.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26150	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26171	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Our communities form the strong Backbone of the country, because fact is that two thirds of the people live in communities in the countryside. The Community Investment Act is a further and necessary step and a booster towards modernising rural infrastructure and the resulting improvement of the conditions for rural people. It is not new that many rural communities are ultimately in a difficult budgetary situation. More and more tasks in the case of less revenue are leading to the need to postpone or delay necessary investments. That is why I am particularly grateful to Federal Minister Schelling and Reinhold Mitterlehner for their commitment to this investment package of around € 175 million. Not only do the local authorities benefit the regional economy. Each euro invested will be remunerated several times. In other words, this investment package strengthens the regions. The whole rural area needs to be strengthened, because on the one hand it faces the departure towards cities, on the other hand, it also loses important professionals and also knowledge. We must be concerned that we are increasingly anchoring young motivated people in our country and in the regions. But that also means that we have to set impulses, and that is exactly what the Community investment law offers, because it makes an important contribution to this. Large financial chunks such as the adaptation of buildings – we think of schools, kindergartens et cetera or leisure facilities – or wastewater disposal or drinking water supply are very difficult to vote for smaller, less financial communities. The Federal Government's participation in the costs plays an essential and valuable role in this. What is the final effect of the law? – In concrete terms, a maximum of one quarter of the cost of a new project is financed. It must be a new project that has not yet been approved. A total of € 175 million is available for these projects throughout Austria, i.e. € 28 million in Upper Austria. This €175 million is intended to trigger investments of over €750 million and thus also contribute to job creation or job security. After all, up to 8,500 new jobs are calculated. From my point of view, it is an important point of view that these funds – should not be able to collect them – remain practically in the community pot and benefit the communities again through the financial compensation. It is positive that the allocation of funds is not only based on the graded population key but also takes other points into account, as the graded population key continues to contribute to the financial disadvantage of the smaller communities. From my point of view, with this law, we are definitely on the right and just path, in the sense that every citizen should be of equal value. That is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26219	Mrs Mag. Greiner has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26241	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into this investment premium for communities, I invite you: Let us take a brief look at our economic data! Growth is better than expected, it is more than 2 percent. The labour market is developing positively. We have never had as many employees as we do, and we see this positive development especially among young people. Private consumption is increasing, i.e. the measures of tax reform are acting. You see, these developments are fundamentally positive. But what else do we need? – We need even more investment, both private and public, to further boost growth. This year, for example, the Federal Government is making public investment of €5 billion. The money flows into infrastructure, research, development et cetera. This is a remarkable second place in the EU comparison. We thus create sustainable jobs. What is happening for the communities now? – We have already heard it, a premium of € 175 million is available for the municipalities. The positive effect: On the spot, directly in the municipalities, up to 8,500 jobs are created. What can the communities finance? – We have already heard it in the first place: Childcare facilities can be financed. This is an important initiative. Another initiative in this sense: the bank levy of € 750 million. This amount has also been paid directly to childcare. Buildings, renovations of school buildings and senior care facilities can be financed with this money; not least public housing, which is an essential contribution to providing sustainable housing. – So far to this investment premium that we decide today. Many other initiatives to create sustainable jobs are in the loop, are good at rail, are actually almost through the goal – almost: 20 000 jobs are to be created in addition, which should in particular benefit long-term unemployed; the € 2 billion employment bonus. Let me give you an example from the Steiermark. Many of you will know Magna. It is a management company in the central Styrian region, but not only in the Styria of relevance, but in all of Austria and far beyond, internationally active and active. This company, in which cars of the Jaguar brand, Mercedes, BMW are produced, has relied on the Federal Government's commitment to use this employment bonus. 3 000 jobs would be made possible locally in this region. And now this positive trend is to be stopped abruptly? Thousands of families who hope for a job are now disappointed? – I am curious how those responsible want to explain this to the Styrian population! Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, social democracy will be committed and fully committed to local interests – for job creation, for regulated incomes and for social security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26289	Mr Angerer has now spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26310	Mr President. Minister! High house! One main reason why we agree to this bill is that, apart from the city of Vienna, some € 130 million will be transferred to the hands of local authorities that can handle money, namely in those of the municipalities. The municipalities are, in fact, the only local authority in Austria with the Tax funds available to you – unlike you, Minister of Finance, you need €5 billion more this year, you spend €5 billion more than you take, you have to book a €5 billion down in your budget – and that is actually the main reason for us to agree to this programme. I have listened to all the arguments today, namely that the money goes in the rural area, and I have to say honestly, I can only laugh at that in view of the distribution of € 40 million to the city of Vienna. The city of Vienna is always excluded from all the benchmarks, and now, at once, when it comes to money distribution – something else is it not, it is a pure money distribution – it accesses it and gets 40 million €. In fact, this is nothing but a small reparation of Mr Faymann, Mr Mitterlehner's missing immigration policy, in short and at the heart of the fact that a little money has been given to the communities in the course of the financial compensation, because of all the social benefits they have to provide, of course, by the minimum guarantee given to the refugees as soon as they have their residence status, they are heavily burdened. This is obviously something that many communities have negotiated in the course of the financial compensation process. And that is what we now put into a beautiful investment programme for the communities and we want to achieve economic and economic effects, which actually corresponds to a milkmaid bill, because they are never available. Every mayor and also Prince there, who says that if he has a project in his community in his pocket, he can finance the remaining 75 percent immediately to set up a new project, it is said: I know myself too well in the congregations, I know how it goes there. You have to plan a few years ahead to be able to afford such projects. So you will not be able to achieve this effect. You can't just go here and say, The 175 million € multiplied by four, which is the national economic effect achieved with it! - I just can't do that. That is why you have, of course, also left the back door open, and the municipalities have obviously negotiated well, so that the money will then come into the Structural Funds and will definitely end up with the municipalities. And this is the only point: that this money ends up with the communities. That is reasonable, that is a small compensation for the missing integration policy and the immigration policy you have made. As has been said, the local authorities have clearly negotiated this in terms of financial compensation. To the figures: 3.8 per cent more GDP growth, 8 500 additional jobs – are not bad for me, these are just beautiful computers! This is also so illustrated and very critical by the budget service. All other criteria are missing in the distribution. There are no incentives for communities, there is no competition between the communities to submit a good project. All of this is missing because it is a mere distribution of money, so obviously a reparation for the missing immigration policy, which was negotiated in the financial balance. In the core wrong and thought too short, you can only say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26356	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26379	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV sets and here on the gallery! One thing I have to say: You already have a strange gift, it's incredible how you can break something up when something is done, how you try to just talk it all down. Mühldorf is not much larger than the municipality of Lesachtal; we are both Carinthians, colleague Angerer. I have also been active in the community and know myself well in the community policy as well. We both know how all this has been negotiated, we know the negotiations on financial compensation. We know that for poor communities there have been these €90 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] – €90 million in total. Do you know what this alone is for the municipality of Lesachtal with a budget of approximately € 2 million? – Get 100 000 €! So much so that we can know what we're talking about. Now this municipality investment law is being passed, with a total of € 175 million being made available. Of the money for structurally poor communities, the large communities have got nothing, the cities have got nothing, but according to this investment law, the money has, of course, been divided according to the population key. Now I return to the Lesachtal municipality, which is not much smaller than Mühldorf with a budget of approximately € 2 million. We get about €25 000 a year in investment premiums, which can also be done elsewhere. Should I tell you what the community of Lesachtal, the small community of Lesachtal can do with it? – We can rebuild the school and make three small apartments out of what has been planned, but not yet written down. The waste island project, which has been somewhere in the loop for a long time, but has not yet been budgeted, we can now prefer, we can implement it. I'm really telling you one thing, Mr Angerer: I can go home proudly and announce in our community what has been done, namely: to make money available to the small communities and not just to make it flow into the big cities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And you, as a representative of a small community, stand here and destroy all of this with your criticism. You're talking about money distribution?- Oh, my God! Do you know what a money distribution was? – What the liberals have done in Carinthia, because we are pleading today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26424	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky has now been reported in word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26446	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Honorable Advisors! I am very glad that my previous speaker, Mr Angerer, has now, as I believe, clarified very practically and thus also gives the Freedom Party the opportunity to send a signal and to join the communities in a positive way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To make it even easier and perhaps also the Green – Professor Rossmann is now, I think, no longer in the room – it's easier to vote here, we'll stick to just a few facts, I would say. It has already been stated that the federal government is moving 175 million euros in municipal investment under this law. The essential thing, and this has already been suggested, is: This is about modernising the infrastructure of our communities in Austria. It has, after all, also two economic aspects of the economy; I think Mr Greiner mentioned this earlier: On the one hand, jobs are created with this, at least 8 000, the number has also been mentioned, and, not yet mentioned, the economic location of Austria is also supported, because this results in value creation, as the Wifo also calculated, of 0.38 percent of GDP. – Very important initiatives, ladies and gentlemen! These infrastructure projects should enable all of us to agree to this bill. It is about schools, it is also about childcare facilities for children, for seniors, it is about road construction, and it is therefore also possible to grant a comprehensive extension of the broadband network in Austria. I would say that these are real investments in the future of our country, ladies and gentlemen. The specific amount of federal grants available to each municipality has already been published by the Federal Ministry of Finance on its homepage. They are therefore very transparent and easy to see. Every municipality can see that, as Mr Obernosterer has already mentioned. So you can only really win this law absolutely positive, especially then – and that, I believe, has already been granted to Mr Angerer – when you consider that the expenditure in the social field has naturally created an additional effort for the communities in recent years, no question at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, according to today's difficulties, we should come to a unanimous decision-making process in such a reasonable law – it is called a fact-based one; the colleague of the Greens is nodding – so that the communities in our country can be given an impulse and not perhaps by party-political struggle on such a subject. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: It's about expertise!]] That would be very bad. Get up, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26488	Mr Sieber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26510	Mr President. Minister! High house! With the decision of the Municipal Investment Act, this Federal Government again clearly shows that its investment in municipal infrastructure is extremely important. With the help of the federal government, schools, kindergartens, retirement homes and sports facilities will be set up in 2017 and 2018, which could not have been realized so quickly by the municipalities without these additional federal funds. Access to buildings, public transport investment or social housing can also be easily financed. In order to reach out to the municipalities and cities, the Federal Government takes in € 175 million. For my home country Vorarlberg, this means that additional € 7.4 million of funding is available for cities and communities. Our communities have a wide range of tasks, and that's why these total € 175 million are just right, Minister! The fact that these € 175 million generate € 760 million in investment and that this will also create 8 500 new jobs can also be a success of this law and hence We also valued the success of our Federal Minister Hans Jörg Schelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26546	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1583 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Lichtenecker, colleagues and colleagues on Community investment law 2017 – KIG 2017. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. [[20:08:22]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1609, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of India amending the Convention on 8 June. Agreement on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax (1619, e.g.) signed in Vienna on November 1999
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26610	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! And if anyone else listens to us, a nice good evening! It is now an issue which, as it were, underlines the encouraging cooperation and the continuation of Austria in the OECD programmes. With the amendments to the Double Tax Agreement with India, we achieve implementation of appropriate recommendations on better information exchange. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: India was not exactly the hort of refugees in a tax haven, India is rather a country that, let us say, is making its taxpayer more difficult. It is now trying to eliminate customs frontiers in one's own country at all; however, it is the right way. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and ask you, even if this legislative period is soon to end, to make every effort to: not only adapt the DBs to OECD standards, but also, in particular, to where we really have economic losses. At this point I would like to mention Hungary. We still have a double taxation agreement with Hungary from the time when there was a Communist government there and, as a few of our companies, we were happy to put in place construction measures where a 24-month arrangement prevails in respect of the establishment. In other words, a Hungarian construction company can run a construction site for up to two years within the DBAs without having a facility, saying: 9 percent Hungarian corporate tax instead of 25 percent with us. And if she still changes staff every six months – the posting directive – then she doesn't pay a cent tax with us and could legally – if she paid the same net wage to her workers – offer 25 percent cheaper than an Austrian entrepreneur, an Austrian builder. To be honest, my request, Mr Federal Minister, is to announce and renegotiate this double taxation agreement as quickly as possible. Let's see that we'll be down at the premises for six months! I can say that in this respect. The agreement with India, as has been said, is to be welcomed, and I hope that we will soon get through with our DBAs network. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26686	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1609 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:11:56]] 8. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Finance on the Austrian Stability Programme for the years 2016 to 2021 (III-385/1617 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26729	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26757	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Stability programme – a soundly name, who does not wish for his home stability and security; only this stability programme is unfortunately as stable as this red-black government coalition. The programme is almost a symbol of the current government policy: many promises and good intentions, but little implementation and lack of reform. [[Abg. Köchl: A hypo-stability program!]] I also tell you why I am so skeptical: because we have been promised for years by SPÖ and ÖVP that the budget deficit is being reduced, and this is urgently needed in view of a government debt of € 294 billion, more than 80 percent of the gross domestic product, for example; only these two, fortunately, former – soon – government parties do not even adhere to what they have decided themselves. In 2011, they decided on a debt brake, and economic adjustment is expected to make up no more than 0.45 percent of the gross domestic product according to the self-determined debt brake from 2017, starting from this year on. As a budget speaker, I can only say that would be a fine thing, a very fine thing. I would really have to congratulate this federal government if it collapsed. You know, I'm talking in the conjunctive, because of course it's not. The budget deficit is twice as high as the government itself has decided on the debt brake; only: The overwhelming part is then booked into a corrective account, that makes our federal government, and then it is gone, you think. – But unfortunately it is not that way, and unfortunately it is not gone. That's not how it works. Unfortunately, our 2011 scepticism was justified that you would not comply with your own requirements. These are the interest rates – you have to imagine that! – for government bonds as low as never before, so the local savers are sluggishly expropriated in favour of the state, and yet there is no sustainable recovery of the budget. This is really inconceivable. What are the big cost drivers now? – Firstly, of course, it is the massive increase in the cost of internal security and other factors caused by the Federal Government’s irresponsible and illegal migration or better said door-to-door policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, structural problems are increasing, the longer the reforms are delayed. I also have the words of the Federal Chancellor regarding state reform in the ear, I alone lack faith. SPÖ and ÖVP had 11 years, 11 years, in which absolutely nothing, but really nothing happened: nothing happens in the field of funding, regarding transparency database, there is a law that does not take any serious at all; in the financial compensation, nothing happened: “going into the transition” – an euphemism for nothing. What happened to secure the financing of the pension system? - Nothing. What happened in the field of education? - Nothing. The only area in which SPÖ and ÖVP were really active and with all their heart there is the promotion of mass immigration. This is not surprising for an integration minister who considers immigrants to be smarter and better trained than the Austrians. I am really happy, I am really glad that it finally has an end to this play of mourning, because then there is the hope that after a new election we will have a stability programme that really deserves this name.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26813	Mrs Tamandel has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26834	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr. Haider, this is the game of opposition. Of course, the opposition must say now, because it is so far – the unloved government is leaving office – that everything did not fit. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haider and Mr Steinhauser.]] Mr Haider, there was a public hearing for the first time because of the shift in the debate on the Federal Financial Framework in autumn. On the one hand, four experts have told us different, but on the other hand the same thing as, for example, that the decline in the debt ratio is quite ambitious, considering that we are going back in more than two percentage points. In 2020, it will be 70 percent, now we are 84 percent, and the European Union will only require 1 percent of us. I think this is a good, ambitious goal, and we show that we are consistently trying to reduce our debts. We have already had a primary surplus, and we want it to be in the next few years too, we have planned it that way. [[Abg. Haider: Did the experts say that, or...?]] – Of course, the experts have also asked us to carry out necessary reforms exactly where large cost drivers are, and of course it will be necessary to implement pension reform sometime in all the federal states, for example in Vienna, where this will be postponed until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. Mr Angerer explained before, when he was at the speaker's desk, how good it was if, for example, the FPÖ ruled somewhere. – The experts agreed, and Professor Felder, the President of the Fiscal Council, also met us at the last Budget Committee meeting on 10 October. May said that the debt ratio in Austria would be 10 percentage points lower, we would not have had the disaster of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank, which the Blues in Carinthia have incubated us, Mr. Angerer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Loacker, Mr Gisela Worm and Mr Hübner.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Who did this?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Don't get so nervous, hurry! The truth is the truth!]] That is, if you practice criticism over and over again, then you should come at your own door sometime. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have implemented a lot of reform projects; Mr Haider, if I hear from you that nothing has happened, I have to say: They apparently weren't there as a reform project... – Are you done? [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Am I speaking again? Obviously you were not there, Mr Haider, when we implemented reform projects. We have decided a start-up package, we have decided investment premiums for smaller companies, for large companies. We have just decided on an investment package for the municipalities. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's all on pump! Zero structurals! Everything on pump!]] I think we know very well how we can work together to boost the economy. We have seen for the first time in the last month that unemployment is falling, employment is rising. I think you can practice criticism as an opposition party, but you don't have to talk things up. One thing I like to record: For example, it was criticized by Mr Hable, who is not here today, but also by Mr Rossmann, that it was very difficult to discuss and advise the stability programme without a medium-term planning without having to debate the figures in the financial framework. I just have the feeling that the expert has done quite well. This is also the meaning of a public hearing that the experts are speaking, because I assume that the representatives of the opposition have, anyway, a preconceived opinion. There will be no further action of this kind, the next time there is a new government, then one will see. We have decided to postpone the financial framework twice. In this constellation we will no longer experience it, but I am still convinced that we have been able to discuss very intensively with experts, I am convinced that we are moving in a good direction, and I say this: Prepare for it, because if you get into responsibility sometime, then you really have to bear responsibility and then you can't do it the way you used to do in Carinthia!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26953	Mr Mag. Rossmann is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e26974	Mr President. Minister! High house! Well, Mrs Tamandl, if I listen to you in this way, I actually wonder why the government is in the process now, when so many reforms have been implemented, as you say. I could now easily draw up a list of reform projects that have not been completed, which is much longer than those of reform projects that have actually been completed. [[Abg. New builder:... Feel Mr. Rossmann is to blame!]] Mrs Tamandl, one thing I would like to criticise very strongly: If you are producing yourself here and all the serious claims that the experts participating in the hearing would have a predetermined opinion, I would very much like to use the expert nominated by us, that his opinion, which he expressed in the hearing, is based on a macroeconomic-theoretic framework, the Keynesian framework, and on the basis of this macroeconomic assessment, he has made his assessment of the stability programme, but that is not a predetermined opinion. [[Abg. Kassinger: Who is this?]] If you're talking about your expert, Mrs. Tamandl, please. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Your expert who invited you, Professor Reinhard Neck from Klagenfurt, was the hardliner among the experts. He has not said that debt reduction and deficit reduction are ambitious. He said that the adjustments to deficits and debt would have to go much faster. That is what he said in the hearing, and not that this is an ambitious programme; I would like to maintain that. And if Mr Felder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. The more than 10 percentage points of GDP, to which the debt ratio could be lower, are not only due to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but are due to the entire bank package, Mrs Colleague. [[Call the ÖVP: You are always the first to demand more debt!]] I look at it regularly when the European Commission publishes its figures on Eurostat in April and October. But now, on this stability programme and on the questions which are positive and where I see problems, whether this stability programme is at all suitable as a substitute for the federal financial framework, which you, Mr Finanzminister, have abstained from us because you have done everything you can to allow this financial framework to be decided here in this House in such a way that it will not be available until the autumn of the next two years: What is positive about this stability programme is the conversion of budgetary policy from a restrictive to an expansional orientation, which allows for a tax reduction on the one hand and additional expenditure on refugees on the other; in the case of tax reduction it would certainly have been more possible if the distribution effects had been somewhat different. Two of the experts, Mr. Markus Marterbauer from the Chamber of Labour and Mr. Stefan Ederer from the Economic Research Institute, also welcomed this change in budgetary policy. However, Mr Ederer also said that this was the minimum requirement for budgetary policy, and he could imagine that more needs to be done, more public investment must be made; and I am now encouraging: to support the rising economic upturn a little – by the way, not only in Austria but in Europe as a whole, that is to say, a relaxation of the fiscal rules. But is this stability programme now suitable as a substitute for the medium-term financial framework? – My answer to that is a clear no. Firstly, the stability programme is something that is used for reporting to the European Commission, and not anymore. It's not binding. It essentially requires an applicable legal situation, which is a no-policy change prognosis, that is, that what you have in terms of measures in your government program New from January is not reflected in this stability programme at all. I mean, now that the government is in the process, it has become obsolete, but of course it would be necessary to discuss precisely these changes, because these are the objectives and budgetary strategies of the government – and this is not exactly what the stability programme is doing. It does not take into account the major economic, social and social challenges and environmental challenges. Apart from that, it is not at all suitable for a budgetary debate for the federal government because of the fact that figures are offered at a very high level of aggregation; in addition, Mr. Dr. Berger and his team have very clearly analysed this with very clear analysis of the budget service. Therefore my wish to all here in this house: Let's go back to where we were! After two years we leave behind the amendment of the decision! In spring we will again discuss the federal financial framework, the budgetary objectives and strategies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27040	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27061	Mr President. I mean, the stability programme – as I am with Mr Tamandel – shows how well the government has worked and how many decisions we have liked; we see that the tax reform is effective. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] Not all that was foreseen in the tax reform has already arrived one thing, for example, revenue on sales tax has been a little under plan, which also had technical reasons because part of the tax reform only entered into force later. However, the essential macroeconomic data show – and this is what all the experts in hearing have clearly said, completely wrested, by whom they were nominated – that: Yes, the tax reform works, the purchasing power has increased, private consumption is stimulated. There are already initial positive signs as to private investment in equipment, which is quite, very important for economic growth to start. That is, for example, the tax reform was a real success of this federal government, which all the experts have emphasized, which is also reflected in the data. This success also shows that Austria is returning to where it belongs, among the top performers, in terms of employment, in terms of growth, and not behind it, but among the best in Europe. There we come back, and there we are already. It was also interesting that some of the experts on employment development have said perfectly correctly that employment growth, the increase in jobs in Austria, has never been worse than in Germany over the last ten years. It was one year worse, but in the other years better, and under the rule we are at exactly the same level with Germany in terms of growth in employment. No expert has said that would not be true. This simply shows that in terms of growth in terms of employment, not only tax reform, but also a number of measures show success. We can therefore say that the Federal Government may not have done everything, but it has done a lot of things right, and this is also seen in the stability programme. This is also noted by the fact that state finances are in order that we are among the best in Europe. This concerns the structural deficit, we are moving in the right direction as far as debt reduction is concerned, and as far as annual deficit development is concerned, we are among the best in Europe. You have to say that. [[Abg. Höbart: Then everything is good anyway!]] – Did I say it was all right? I said maybe it wasn't all right, but much was right. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's what all the experts said. Unfortunately, you were not in the hearing, because you would also have heard the liberal expert, who basically said so – with criticisms, that is also fine, but these essential macroeconomic data have all called experts, and that is good. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] One last point is the field of future investment. Today, we have taken an important step with the local financing package, because it is a matter of attracting public investment again. In addition, the comparison with Germany: As far as this is concerned, we are twice as good as Germany. You don't have to blame everything the government has done. I am surprised when someone does this from the government bank, but I am pleased that Mr Tamandl has the right view of the world, namely that very, very much, much what this government has done, very, very much what we have done here was right and also bears fruit. That is why we will be very pleased to take note of this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27116	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27137	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Jan Krainer, it honors you if you look for the comparison with Germany and say: It's not that bad, it's all right with us! – Compared to Austria Germany has a massive budget surplus and is also highly successful because it has set the structures in motion, repaired and implemented something accordingly. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Stability programme also means transparency for us and for me as entrepreneurs. If there is no transparency, then I have no confidence. If as an entrepreneur I am faced with the decision to invest in my business, it is very important to have transparency. I would not invest in the operation of Austria in that case, because it was not turned on the central swivel screws. This is particularly important in this respect, I believe, if you want to make a location and its administration attractive again. These include, in particular, trust and efficient use of funds, and this does not work in Austria. Then we're talking about transparency. The stability programme for the next few years depends heavily on the economic programme, but the government lacks a broad view in this respect, and economic policy lacks sustainability. What do I mean by that? – It is mainly a question of reducing debt, but at the same time it is important to slow down, especially in support. In this there is a difference: While the ÖVP now wants to renew its party, NEOS has long wanted to renew Austria. This is what the ÖVP has once created under Pröll, the transparency database, actually that instrument, to finally have a grip on what is in this country, or – I call it a preservation of dependencies – to happen to the large pool of funding, of which we have too much in the EU average by €4 billion. In other words, we spend €4 billion too much on funding. I also believe that the Minister of Finance, when he has repeatedly said that we have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. We have federal wastefulness. You did not say that, Mr Finanzminister, but I am referring to it that way. In addition, there is a dependence on support programmes, i.e. this premeditation also provides the ground for some structural corruption. What am I talking about? – The report on the stability programme before us reads, among other things, the following: "The Federal Government therefore connects the consolidation of the federal budget with the continuation of structural reforms, among others. in the areas of administration and support.” – In principle, however, the government has no idea what kind of support will be granted, so you do not have it in most cases, so it needs an effective and efficient transparency database, including the countries, and if they do not participate, they will be punished – I see that. Those who are not transparent should not be allowed to grant subsidies either. That is the point, and we must first stop these holes. I therefore propose the following self-employed motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27219	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27283	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have heard in the budget hearing, the Austrian Stability Programme is based on national economic statements and data from the medium-term Wifo forecast. I don't need to go further on that, the data has already been mentioned. It is important to note that by this growth on the one hand and by a very professional budgeting on the other hand, the stability programme provides for a gradual reduction in the Maastricht deficit from 1.6 percent in 2016 to 1 percent in this year, and already in 2021 to 0.3 percent of GDP. The second parameter, the government debt ratio, was also 84.6 percent of Austrian GDP in 2016. As early as 2017, a reduction to 80.8 percent and a drop to 71 percent by 2021 is planned. If we have heard the statements made by the State Debt Committee, i.e. the Fiscal Council, then we recognize that a return to 2027 – which sounds far away, but is 60 per cent possible in just under ten years – seems to be feasible, so that in ten years, as probably one of the few countries in Europe, we will be able to return to Maastricht in accordance with Maastricht. Therefore, at this point, I think Jan Krainer referred to it earlier: the right view of things, and I am pleased that he has made very positive mention of the Finance Minister put by the ÖVP in this respect – thanking Minister Schelling, who manages to lead Austria back to the top of the European Union in this data. Thank you very much, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me, however, address a specific European Commission recommendation to Austria! How could it be different? It is a subject that we talk about very often, but we are still not in the end: the topic of retirement. It is actually a good example of how to raise an important issue as a coalition government. The one party may already recognize that a number of things have already gone on through joint reforms. After all, the actual retirement age in 2016 has been increased to 60,3 years. The other party may recognise facts and also be prepared to act and take further reform steps. After all, the 2015 Ageing Report of the European Commission shows us that Austria will be among the EU Member States with the highest increase in public pension expenditure between 2013 and 2060. It was necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to implement exactly three recommendations from the European Commission: on the one hand, to link the retirement age to life expectancy – a very logical process, that has nothing to do with “cold computers” and such stories; on the other hand, it is only necessary to follow logic; on the other hand, if the age of retirement increases significantly, one may also be working a little longer – and on the second point – I know, we cannot talk about it any longer –: the adjustment of the retirement age of women; and on the third, the extension of capital-covered supplementary pensions. If you implement these three things, the public pension system will continue to be eligible for funding, on the other hand, the standard of living of people in our country and thus the purchasing power will be preserved. This, of course, also means ensuring jobs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. However, I am very confident that from the autumn of this year on, the corresponding reforms and thus also equality in the retirement age of women can be addressed. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: But then on all levels!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27347	The next item is Mrs Schimanek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27368	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, my colleague Roman Haider has already responded to the 2016 stability programme by 2021. I can only underline his legitimate criticism of this: promising a lot, keeping little, and also overcoming the population in many areas – that is very unfortunate. The current debt is, of course, a great burden for us and for the population, But, I think, even more so in many areas and in the special area I would like to address now. I will never tire of addressing the transport situation in Kufstein again and again and would like to make a request again today. The requests for the abolition of the obligation of vignette on the A 12 from the border between Kufstein and Kufstein Süd have not yet been found by a majority; but in the debate on the introduction of the digital vignette which I have initiated on this request, even the ÖVP members Josef Lettenbichler and Johannes Rauch have agreed, which was very positive. ÖVP Transport Spokesman Andreas Ottenschlagermeinte – I quote: “Now, some regions such as Linz or, of course, Kufstein are right to come to the tapet, because the people are affected by noise and traffic. [...] I believe it is legitimate to discuss whether, for example, a short-term vignette for Kufstein can be a possible relief. [...] That is, my request to you, Mr. Federal Minister” – it was addressed to Minister Leichtfried – “as the owner of the ASFINAG would be that we simply and simply make a cost review: What would a short-term vignette – whether this is a three-day vignette et cetera, you have to test – taste for good German? – Only then can one assess whether it is worth us to introduce such a spa vignette.” Changes in the obligation to sign up to the requirement, the derogations in the case of grounded roads or the introduction of a short-term vignette would also have an impact on the budget, which is why it should be presented in the annual stability programme. That is why the Members who have been signed put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that in the free play of the forces my request will also receive approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27435	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place. He's on trial. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27516	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Vogl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27537	The encouraging message is that in 2016, with a GDP growth of almost 3 percent and 1.5 percent, we returned to the middle and the eurozone figures in real terms. It is also gratifying because, after that, we came out of the crisis much faster than other countries in Europe, even though this engine was a little stuttering. It has already been mentioned what this stuttering consisted of, and why it has come about, because the budgetary margin has been missing in order to tackle truly profound reforms and to create an incentive to revive the economy. If you have to spend €17 billion on banks – which leads to a record debt of the state – this takes the scope for necessary measures. In this difficult situation, we said: If we want to create employment, create a dynamic, then we need an incentive for private consumption. Despite the strained financial situation, we said at the time: We are making the biggest wage tax reform ever. In 2016, we see, it was right. We achieved this GDP growth in 2016 thanks to public consumption and – which is even more important because it is also sustainable – the investment rate has returned to the top of Europe. All these efforts to boost consumption and the economy have led to 60,000 new jobs being created last year. The problem is just: It's too little. We know that the demand on the Austrian labour market is very high. That's three reasons. One is: The pension reforms in recent years have been effective. People go into retirement later, thus automatically increasing the labour market potential, and exactly what we have always said: It is not enough to raise the retirement age if we do not at the same time ensure that people have work!, happens now. The second topic is a very encouraging one: More and more women are pushing into working life. This means that more people are on the Austrian labour market. The third topic: The Austrian labour market is the most attractive all of Europe. I would also like to thank the social partners in Austria, which, although they have sometimes been said dead, is still quick-lived. This leads people to go where there is something to earn. When we remember: Our grandparents have gone to Germany because they have found reasonable income opportunities there, and so today people are pushing to Austria. That's a subject, that's a problem. That is why this look forward is also so important. There's one thing I'm confident about now: For the first time since long, we have noticed a change, a recovery in the economy. This leads to more investment and additional jobs being created – fortunately not only in Austria but throughout Europe. This would mean that the pressure on the domestic labour market should in any case be reduced by immigration. What is also very pleasing – that has already been mentioned several times –: We are mastering the issue of public debt. We will bring them back to the Maastricht target of less than 60% in the next few years. The question, however, is – and it must be asked, I think, quite honestly, and it is also an ideological question –: Is it the aim of using the spaces we have created to serve debt services faster, or should we use these spaces that have been created to support additional offers on the labour market, to create additional investments in infrastructure? There may already be a difference between Austria and Germany. While Germany achieves surpluses, it neglects its own infrastructure. Once you drive from Munich to Upper Austria via the motorways, then you know that there has been a lot of sleep in the infrastructure in the last ten years, both on the road and on the rail! Austria has stopped in the crisis, we have invested, and we can see that. That makes the difference. I think we should continue this path of investing in infrastructure and, above all, in the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27602	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The colleagues are already talking about transport connections in the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria. I believe that from this debate it is recognized that today, as we have to say here, a bit of the steam is outside. Tomorrow is the next statement by the Federal Government. In this respect, we should perhaps focus on the essentials. If the previous speakers have just said that the banks alone cannot explain the long-term development in the budget – even NEOS have already commented accordingly – then that is true. That alone doesn't explain everything. But if I hear such sounds, I just want to repeat a message that has particularly shaped this legislative period. Immediately after the last National Council election, what has already been recorded and kept under the spell, namely the great Austrian banking problem, in particular that of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, is then flown up. It has flown up so much that it has really reached everyone and everyone. By the way, this coalition – red and black – would no longer have had a majority in the autumn of 2013 if at that time the hypo lie had not been overturned about the respective budget negotiations and elections. I remember that in the four-year perspective, we have set up € 130 million a year for all banks – that's crazy! That was the smooth budget lie, the budget fraud, which is why – rarely in this House, but completely justified – there was a request for ministerial support in this case, because it was so deliberately dizzy and tricked. This should not be forgotten completely, so this legislative period has begun. Now there is a lot of digestion, but not all yet, the final balance sheets we are looking at once again. Now, after the financial crisis, everything has been merged, as in many other countries, and in fact we have already experienced a crisis, because certain deregulated systems – including in Europe, not only elsewhere – have made it possible and approved at all. In fact, 10 percent, 15 percent of the economic performance had to be spent to keep the entire tinnober straight and, as you say, to save. In Austria, it was almost like that. For some, the question arises whether this was justified to pour in so much tax money – you know, we mean: no. The real chuzpe is then not to recognize this and suddenly out of the crisis of a de facto completely deregulated private sector – although, of course, in Austria the banks were already partly in public ownership; nor is it much better, it is about making this detoxification in this sector – in many countries a public debt crisis. Greece is another case, that is clear. However, it concerns many countries, and as a general rule, the start of government debt ratios is precisely due to rescue measures, because there has been a great deal of money in Europe. By the way, in the United States: They were very much portioned and partially sent to the pleite, much earlier. We started now – late, but still. You know, we are in many points of an opinion, Minister Schelling, not in a few, even in the hypo rescue, but – I always have to say this when Mr Schelling is sitting here because he is the first one who has brought something else together at this point – the contributions we are giving here or also in the committee are not entirely giving this knowledge. I can't avoid resuming on the eve of the next election campaign, as there was lied, cheated and cheated, with help – and active cooperation even! – from the ÖVP anyway, but ultimately even from the SPÖ. We should not let ourselves be fooled by loud new shorts and cores; this mentality is not yet gone. [[Call the ÖVP: And mushrooms!]] – Yes, he at least exposes the things while you cause and cover them, the billions of braiding! That's, um, that's the most pragmatic call ever! I love this when something comes from the ÖVP around this time, because at least you can get up again. – Yes, thank you very much. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] That's really the last thing: They're guilty – I don't mean now You personally, but the ÖVP – into this organized billionpleite, and then you come here and link in this unqualified way! I don't understand at all why people who know so little about such a subject are even intertwined. That is the problem with the ÖVP! I'm really excited about what the short hand-picked selection looks like, how many hyporians are still in there, how many fliers are still in the game. [[Sociability with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] You can keep that any way you want. This is all a short problem now, but perhaps on the long bank. We will control this, because this story, that those in charge of the time did not belong to the government bank, but to the indictment bank, will play a role in the next election campaign, because you have disappeared.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27676	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27697	Mr President. Federal Minister Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler is well-known for his fine expressions, especially if it is a little later. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogl.]] However, I absolutely want to reject the accusation of the lie, the swindle, of fraud. When it comes to trickery, there will be some good tips in your own group to see how to do so accordingly. Today, however, we are discussing the Austrian Stability Programme, the continuation 2016 to 2021. I mean, it pays off if you look at a few key values of this program more closely: From 2016 to 2021, government revenue is expected to rise from € 173.1 billion to € 203 billion, public expenditure from € 178.5 billion to € 204.4 billion. That means that revenue will increase more than expenditure, and that is correct and important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] The present stability programme also provides for a gradual reduction in the Maastricht deficit from 1.6% of GDP to 0.3% of GDP by 2021. The structural budget deficit is expected to fall from 0.7% to 0.3%. Public debt is to be reduced to 71 percent in 2021, starting from a peak of 85.5% of GDP in 2015. This is ambitious, but ordered finances have a high priority at the ÖVP, and I should like to thank the Minister for Finance Hans Jörg Schelling very much. Minister of Finance, you're a guarantee of orderly finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is also important to consider the labour market accordingly. Although we have 4 million people in employment, this figure is very, very high, but the unemployment rate is also high. It has been reduced, and measures have been taken in the past. The tax reform has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers, and it has stimulated the economy. The reduction in the income tax rate and in wage tax, as well as other measures, have contributed to this. 5 billion euros of relief have led to an economic upturn, and the economy and the labour market are not only concerned with urban areas but also rural areas. I should therefore like to thank Minister Rupprechter, who, with his project “Home. Land. Quality of life’ will set priorities for rural areas. Additional challenges arise, of course, and it is difficult to achieve the objectives pursued. The refugee movement is not yet over, costs for integration, security of borders and security in the country must be considered. The Brexit, which will, at least, bring more than €10 billion less into the European cash registers, is a topic. There are, of course, direct effects on the individual Member States, but also economic effects that we do not know. So we expect a lot of work, a lot has already been done, but it is still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27761	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27785	Mr President. Mr Schelling! Mr Eßl is talking about “economic impacts that we do not know” – now the Austrian Stability Programme. Stable – stable is just one thing: the trend towards still higher government expenditure, which is stable and nothing else. Mr Zakostelsky referred to the expenditure on pensions and mentioned the growing age of retirement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I am surprised that this comes from the ÖVP, because the ÖVP knows in itself – and also the Minister of Finance knows – that the figures on the retirement age are beautiful by the Social Minister. He rotates around the statistics for so long until he finds out what he likes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] I've already said it this morning and I'd like to repeat it again: The EU Commission’s country-specific recommendations on the pension system are clear: We need to raise the age of women's pensions earlier than it is now in the law, we need to harmonise pension systems. At last, the ÖVP must jump over their shadows and once take the officials into responsibility, which must be given the same rules as the ASVG insured, the pension account from the year 1955 onwards. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also need to link the retirement age to life expectancy – if you don't, you'll buy that we're heading towards rising poverty because the replacement rates are going back because the new pensions are falling from year to year. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In total, we in Austria are holding fast to structures that do not allow improvements, no innovation in the sense of citizens. This applies in particular to health, health insurance and care as a whole. We have high costs through an inflated hospital area, which is largely the responsibility of the countries. However, during the financial compensatory negotiations, the possibility of taking the countries to the kandare was given out of hand. We have high costs through an inefficient landscape of 33 social security funds. It is the Chambers that are interested in having as many insurance companies as possible, because they can serve their friends there with different posts. We need a decade to get ELGA into the race half-way, so you could reduce multiple examinations, you could improve medication – where you actually save where the system saves, is with the patient. At the last meeting, we passed a law restricting the purchase prices for drug innovations. Thank you, Erwin Rasinger, thank you, Erwin Spindelberger, for in the future Austria is no longer one of the countries where drug innovations are on the market in the first wave, but in the future we are in the second wave among the countries. That is, your law causes Austrian patients to receive innovations later. You don't do anything in the system, you don't do anything in the fat cash registers – but the patient is saved. This is the government policy of this red and black federal government. The situation is stable, because a stable deep sleep guarantees that nothing is touched and that the structures remain that way, so that no one loses one millimeter of power.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27876	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27946	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e27970	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues in the House and dear taxpayers! It is gratifying that we are slow, but we are still reducing debts. It is also gratifying that we have had a primary surplus and that we want to continue. It is less gratifying that huge cost drivers remain in the budget, such as the pension system in particular. It is also less gratifying that the balance of results between the federal states no longer results. In the past, it was usually the case that one of the federal states had achieved better results, the other federal states had less good, but at the end of the day, all-Austrian, one somehow came to zero, and we were glad to report to Brussels accordingly. But this is different now: It is no longer between the federal states. Especially among the series are Carinthians because of the Heta and on the other hand Vienna because of the red-green government. In Vienna, according to the Court of Auditors' report, there is a real cost explosion, which leads to minimum security. The pension privileges for officials are re-written for a fee. The problem with the Swiss-Franken-Kreititen has been solved so far, and this could be dangerous for taxpayers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of ÖVP) Look for Lower Austria!]] So I hope that economic reason will come to all Austria and all the resorts. You can't spend more time than you take, and higher taxes don't come into question for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28015	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28037	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It concerns the Austrian Stability Programme for the years 2016 to 2021, the programme is to be transmitted to the EU. “Tax revenue in 2017 is developing well,” says the Minister of Finance. Income from sales tax in the first quarter increased by 6.4 percent, while corporate tax also recorded an increase of 10 percent compared to the previous year, but also the taxes mentioned by my previous speaker increased by 6.9 percent in the first quarter of 2017 compared with the previous year. “In 2017, the general government Maastricht deficit will fall to 1.0% of GDP.” Further: "The structural deficit, taking into account the special costs of refugees and combating terrorism, will be 0.5% of GDP." The government debt is expected to fall from 84.6 percent of GDP in 2016 to 80.8 percent in 2017. However, this bill, Minister of Finance, is not true, because refugee costs are always calculated. If you let these refugee costs in, the result would look different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28064	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28087	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate the report of the Federal Minister of Finance on the Austrian Stability Programme 2016 to 2021. Of course, this is a theme that has many different facets. I would essentially like to limit myself to one aspect, namely the finding of the Fiscal Council that a reduction in the debt ratio is feasible below 60 percent by 2027. In fact, there are only two conditions: on the one hand, economic growth and on the other, budgetary discipline on the other. The budget, of course, also helps with the low interest rate level. I would like to expressly support the Ministry of Finance's strategy to have long-term bonds at these low interest rates. This strategy will also help the Federal Budget for many years in the future. It is important to achieve economic growth, not a question, of course, on the basis of an eco-social market economy. We must not overwhelm environmental systems, we need social compensation, but of course we also need growth, because this creates quality of life and jobs. The increase in the research premium, for example, is a very concrete step. Thirdly, budgetary discipline is needed. I am very excited myself about how the game of free forces will develop. I would like to invite all the Members of Parliament and all the political groups to make demands on the federal budget, on the Federal Minister of Finance, and to say that – I would suggest this – how these expenditures should be financed. Budgetary discipline is needed, only then can we achieve the objective of a debt ratio of 60 percent of GDP in 2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of this report III-385 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, fellow Members, on the creation of an efficient and effective database of transparency. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, fellow Members, on the review of the cost of exceptions from the obligation of the PPE and on the introduction of short-term vignettes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the automatic retirement system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[21:09:19]] 9. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1590, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which an authorisation is granted through federal assets (1636 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28219	This leads us to the 9th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28246	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The empowerment law is intended to leave or transfer 40 pieces of night vision glass to the Republic of Serbia, worth approximately €55 000. It is less about the sum of €55 000; rather, it is about the fact that people who are obviously looking for protection are planning to pursue night vision devices in border areas and that this is to happen with Austrian federal ownership. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Höbart.]] At the same time, however, it is also true that the EU does not take steps to create legal escape routes. If there are no legal routes to escape, complain that refugees, people seeking protection are not legally entering the EU, it is quite a contradiction. That is why we will not agree to this proposal, because it is a completely counterproductive and anything but sustainable policy, namely, to cut off all legal respites, also with these... – Save [[Intrusions of the Abg. Höbart.]] You have your calls, Mr President, we are used to them by the FPÖ. – Yes, please scream, cry for strength! [[Abg. Höbart: (pointing with your finger at the speaker) Illegal migration support you!]] The aim is to pursue protection-seeking people with night vision devices. We cannot accept this and cannot agree to it, because making a refugee defence policy and at the same time complaining about the fact that no legal entry of refugees is taking place is double-talk. For this policy we are not to have! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28311	Next, Mr Magistrate. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28333	Madam President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the last item on the agenda today, but somehow the circle is closing. We heard very clearly today in the early days that it was the Austrian Foreign Minister, who, through a very determined, clear and courageous action, made the Western Balkans route at least a significant part of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hairer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The circle is closing, because this empowerment for the Federal Government means nothing but that we are making a contribution to external border protection, which, I believe, is very important to everyone, because if we do not protect the external borders, Schengen will not work either. This is the essential contribution we are making here: 30 night vision devices for the Serbian army, by the way, not only to prevent illegal migration, but also to curb drug trafficking, trafficking and everything possible. It will never succeed, but we will make this contribution. I am very grateful that the Greens – with all appreciation – have taken a very clear position here, because that is the difference: We don't want to do that, we want to prevent illegal streams, they want to open door and gate to tractors; we don't want that. It's nice that people now know who's for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28381	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28403	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker and to my previous speaker, I can say: The way in which the night vision telescopic glasses are used can be very much in the interest of people, and that will be so. Today's presentation is based on a conference of the Central European Ministers for Defence, which has given mutual assistance to border security in particular; and there are human rights aspects which I would like to maintain. It's the Minister of Defence who's been working there, and I'm allowed to say: Not only is the federal government active, cities and communities are also very active in cooperation with Serbia, especially my federal state, Upper Austria. In my district is the town of Marchtrenk with 13,000 inhabitants, half from the Donau Swabian region, and it is located in Serbia, in Vojvodina. There is a close cooperation that thanks be to God, according to the changing history of these parts of the population. We are very glad that there is a good cooperation, a cooperation in which one looks forward, wants to secure peace. That is why I am very, very glad that peace work is being done in my region and that with this support – these night vision glasses come from the 1990s, so that the financial burden is not excessive – shows that one wants to work together. As has been rightly mentioned, and I would like to stress this, it is also about trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is one of the biggest crimes, as we unfortunately need to see, and this technical support also helps. These crimes can only be combated by cooperation. Only together, only international improvements can be achieved, only together can be minimized, there are really solutions for people to achieve. This will help to achieve positive cooperation, which we will continue to rely on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28440	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1590 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who support the draft law. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:17:14]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH – Series Bund 2016/21 (III-321/1626 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Institute for Agriculture; Follow-up review – Bunde Series 2016/13 (III-299/1628 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on agricultural investment promotions and their impact – BUND 2017/18 series (III-372/1629, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28510	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors. First of all, Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28541	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have three Court of Auditors reports dealing with agriculture, including the Court of Auditors' report on AMA marketing. At the request of Mr Jannach, the Court of Auditors examined the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH. It is a very critical report, in which 55 recommendations were finally made. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the task of AMA Marketing? – Its essential purpose is to promote and safeguard the sale of agricultural and forestry products and the development and maintenance of markets. AMA Marketing also aims to promote general measures to improve the quality of agricultural and forestry products. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the programme was to assess the source of funds, the use of funds, the tendering procedures, the allocations and the cost of checks. According to the Court of Auditors, the AMA has spent an average of €22.5 million on marketing operations in recent years, just under Over 70 percent of these are from contributions from farmers, most of them from the milk and meat sectors. As already mentioned, the Court of Auditors has expressed itself very critically on individual points. I may mention some of them, such as the cooperation with associations. For example, between 2010 and 2014, around €2.5 million was allocated to four associations, with regard to which there have been economic links or memberships. The Court of Auditors therefore recommended that agricultural marketing contributions be granted only on the basis of support contracts, which include concrete uses and project descriptions. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has found very critical that there are no written agreements on cooperation between the AMA Marketing and the Agriculture Chamber. Very critically, the report also considered the system of control of external and direct awards, the advertising of Austrian hail insurance as well as non-comprehensible advertising links in the print media. Ladies and gentlemen, the Managing Director of AMA Marketing has put himself on the discussion in the Committee. He pointed out that most of the recommendations have already been implemented or that their implementation is at work. Another necessary follow-up review will then show whether the recommendations have actually been implemented. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28586	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28607	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speaker has already said that the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH has been reviewed at the request of Mr Jannach, colleagues. Since 2004, that is, for a long time, no examination had taken place. This review – which has been demonstrated by the discussions in the Committee on Agriculture, but also, of course, in the Committee on the Court of Auditors – has already led to an internal reform process. There were four areas which were mainly reviewed: the source of funds and the use of resources: How will farmers' money be used?, tendering and awarding, the cost of checks carried out, the conduct of cross-financing and compliance with the compliance directives. Overall, the report was submitted for the review period between 2010 and 2014. The report was sent to Parliament in 2016. A total of 55 recommendations have been made. You have to say: This report was very critical because there were many things here that were simply missed or neglected by the former managing director. The AMA received a total of 51 recommendations, three were addressed to the Federal Ministry and one to the Federal Ministry and the AMA. In the Committee we received very detailed information from Dr. Blass, who has been responsible there for four years. He has literally said: Criticism has come upon open ears. In the future, there will simply be more transparency in terms of documentation and formal procedures. The services awarded by tendering procedures are now partly carried out directly in the AMA. There will have to be more transparency and comprehensibleness in the areas of marketing activities and media integration. Overall, we are talking about a budget of €22.56 million, which is 80 percent from farmers and 10 percent from EU co-financed measures and revenue revenues. This report, I believe, is a clear task for the future. With regard to the things that have not yet been implemented, it has been promised that they will be implemented in the near future. If a follow-up test is carried out, proof of this should be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28650	Next, Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28671	My precious women, Presidents! What is the point of this Court of Auditors report? – Basically, this sign is about. [[The speaker shall hold a sheet of paper on which an AMA seal of quality is shown with the label “Checked quality AMA GÜTESIEGEL AUSTRIA 012345678” and then place it on the speaker’s desk.]] Mr Gahr has formulated this very politely. I know that you have also suffered from this report, because this report really shows a merciless moral image, like in the first place these half of the empire here, namely the ÖVP, is distributing money for their benefit. This is the sign to be applied by AMA Marketing. It should speak for transparency, honesty. But we are talking about the organization behind this sign, which the Court of Auditors has examined at our request. And this report shows a very, very devastating pattern of mismanagement and abuse of public societies and bodies by the government, in this case by the ÖVP. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I really recommend everyone to read this report because it shows how it should not be. What has the Court of Auditors found? – First and foremost, incredible waste of money, which is intrusive waste of money. You have to imagine: AMA Marketing is an organisation that is intended to promote the application of food produced by farmers. The AMA Marketing and its Managing Director, with knowledge of the Ministry, have of course, because it is an organization under the Ministry, a creative agency to carry out the planning. This creative agency has then again commissioned an agency, a switching agency, which is to make the circuits in the newspapers, namely, mainly in ÖVP-near newspapers, that is also to be mentioned on the verge. The “Austrian farmers’ newspaper” belongs exclusively to the ÖVP. So there's a shift in money here. Not even the AMA Marketing as the original client of advertising, however, has found it worth trying to get an overview of what the switching agency distributes to individual newspapers in money. We see: There an agency was interconnected, mainly one that is close to the ÖVP to simply turn money off and then pass this money on through another agency to hide this flow of money. Then the circle closes. That is why we believe, and the report actually confirms to us that AMA Marketing is also an organisation of party funding. In fact, it is nothing else if a farmer's money received from the AMA Marketing about detours and agencies to the "Austrian Farmers' Newspaper", which belongs to the ÖVP Farmers' Federation. That's what the AMA marketing report showed. [[Congratulations to the FPÖ and to Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Loacker and Mr Schenk.]] On the other hand, we defend ourselves massively. There is another insightful view of things in the Supervisory Board of AMA Marketing. The Supervisory Board of AMA Marketing is, of course, politically occupied. The President of the Chamber of Agriculture, Hautzinger, is there the President. They're all close to the ÖVP. There is also a representative of a company that does business with AMA Marketing – that is absolutely incompatible! However, the head of the iceberg is that former Minister of Agriculture Josef Pröll is on the Supervisory Board of this AMA marketing organization, namely as a representative of Raiffeisen and as a representative of the mill industry, the sector, the cereals, where farmers do not pay any marketing fees. It is absolutely incomprehensible to us why former Minister Josef Pröll is sitting in the Supervisory Board of AMA Marketing. This is a lupen-clean conflict of interest, absolutely not necessary, a lupen-clean party book and friendly economy in the AMA marketing! That's off! [[Congratulations to the FPÖ and to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Schenk.]] It was also shown with no help, for which money was used by the AMA Marketing. In the “Austrian Farmers’ Newspaper”, which is owned by the ÖVP, cooking recipes have been advertised – without any value for any agricultural product. Cook recipes have been advertised, AMA logo below, so you can make money flow there. Then we distributed money to the seminar farmers, distributed money to the ÖVP young farmers, distributed money for the harvest thank you in Vienna, which would still be permitted, but without any valid decision, without any formal record. The farmers are required to record up to the bedroom, but they have not even recorded any records, no protocols on meetings of the General Assembly, no decision-making records. That's really a scandal that's really clean. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hope that we may now be able to take advantage of the opportunity – we have already made the start several times – to bring AMA marketing under parliamentary control. I very much hope here for the SPÖ, that we are here together trying to equip the Board of Directors of AMA in such a way that we have parliamentary control at AMA Marketing. What happens there is not correct. This is a major shift in money. I really appeal to the SPÖ to jump over their shadows here and try to get the AMA marketing as transparent as possible here in Parliament. We have also prepared the following request, which I am now submitting: [[Quoted print version removed]] We hope for broad approval of this proposal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schultes: Parliament's control body is the Court of Auditors!]] – No, we still have a control body, dear colleague Schultes, we have the economic and corruption prosecutorship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the basis of page 101 of this Court of Auditors' report, we will turn on the question of the award of controls to individual companies. At eleven awards of controls, eight times the Federal Procurement Act was disregarded! This is the first kindness of the friendly economy, seven times an extension, for the direct award to a single company – all in the close range of the ÖVP, the Farmer's Federation, the Chambers of Agriculture. This page will be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic and Corruption. In addition to the Court of Auditors, it is intended to review AMA Marketing, because what is happening there cannot be, namely that Managing Director Blass simply says everything is going well now, although he himself is mentioned in this report because he has been the managing director of this marketing organisation since January 2013. It's not like he said he had nothing to do with this thing. The report covers the years 2010 to 2014. We will send this to the corruption prosecutor's office – the report and all our demands – and ask them for information. [[keeping the Court of Auditors' report up to date]] If something comes out, then it's okay, nothing comes out, it's okay. We cannot, however, let it be said that a close-to-state organisation such as the AMA Marketing, which promotes honesty and transparency, violates all possible laws. [[Keeping the AMA seal in height]] The Federal Court of Auditors does not mention for no reason that massively all things have been violated. That we're so...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28769	Mr Jannach, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your group's overall speaking time has been exhausted; that is why You come to the end of the sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28784	Madam President, I have already reached the end of my remarks. As I said, we're going to turn on the corruption prosecutor's office, and that's how AMA Marketing should finally be corrected. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28811	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28891	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28912	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, a warm thanks to the Court of Auditors and its employees, because this report can indeed be a milestone for close-to-state ventures, outsourced societies, because it has shown – also thanks to colleagues Jannach, who has taken the initiative – how important it is that parliamentary control in this country is not restricted but expanded. The results of the audit by the Court of Auditors justly forced political representatives to enter the Board of Directors of the AMA. We will, of course, support this request by Mr Jannach today. This is a correct and logical consequence from this Court of Auditors report. Why? . You say, Mr Schultes, the Court of Auditors is anyway examining. Yeah, he's checking in the back, but we're trying to prevent it. If we are on the Board of Directors as political groups, we have information rights, and the Board of Directors has the information requirements. We will ask for these obligations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that, in control bodies, as in other close-to-state undertakings, whether the energy companies are or otherwise something at national level, of course, political representatives are political representatives because they also have to exercise these control rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] This is a political task that we will also fulfil at the AMA. Secondly, a short time on the core allegations: In fact, core accusation is actually the friendly economy, that is to say, the accusation is literal, it stands literally in there, the awarding of friends, direct friends. The Court of Auditors, in its Recommendation 49, states: “Interest conflicts and inconsistencies in family or friends” – my Ladies and gentlemen, it's not annoyed! – ‘In connection with calls for tenders and the conclusion of contracts’, please, this is very polite. The Court of Auditors has expressed this very politely. I say that there are incompatibilities, simple and touching, Madam President, and I hope that you will look very, very carefully at these conflicts of interest in the follow-up and, accordingly, also sanction them. I would also like to refer to the excellent presentation in all the annexes. There are three annexes to this report, and these annexes also reveal the undemocratic structure of AMA Marketing. There are two people who make the General Assembly, these are Dr. Leutner and Dipl.-Ing. Griesmayr, both political parties. Dipl.-Ing. Griesmayr was at the ministerial office of the former Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Chancellor Pröll, and the same Secretary of Minister then brought his former Minister back to the Supervisory Board because he has the right to propose. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply incompatible! I am also curious about what the corruption prosecutor's office says in this regard. But I'm looking for Collegen Jannach: If you do so, please mention this political incompatibility. It can't be that I bring one who was once my boss into a public institution as a Supervisory Board, a GmbH that is 100% borne by the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be a scandal of the special class in any other area, but that is where the ÖVP and the Chamber of Agriculture hold their hands over it. I don't understand why the SPÖ is holding its hand, I just don't understand it. [[Abg. Listen:... the coalition partner!]] It might also be interesting if you explain and explain this. In conclusion: The election campaigns do not only finance you through advertisements of the “Farmers Newspaper”. This is also an appeal to the Court of Auditors: Look at what AMA Marketing does in the pre-election campaign! I have been able to prove this in committee: In the previous year, she is publishing the multiple for large daily newspapers, for the “Kronen Zeitung” 2012 the triple, for the large newspapers “Standard”, “Nederösterreichische Nachrichten”, “Kurier”, “Austria”, “News” the double – twice as much as usual! – and at the country level in the pre-election year of the Styrian and Upper Austrian elections the fivefold! In these years of pre-election campaign, the AMA indirectly finances ÖVP elections. Indirectly, this is our accusation, Madam President, not directly, we have not said that, but indirectly, about activities of agricultural councils, of ÖVP officials, of chamber officials. That's where the AMA turns very massively into newspapers and finances election struggles. [[Abg. Schimanek: Very unfair, very unreasonable!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is scandalous, which is to a great extent in need of information, and this is demonstrated in this report. I think the follow-up should take a close look at it again. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the reform stand is enormous. We will agree to the request, namely to strengthen control. I hope that the SPÖ will vote today – we hope that we will now have an open discourse in Parliament, which we actively conduct. [[Abg. Lugar: He was good!]] This does not cost a cent, but brings hundreds of thousands of euros in savings and at the same time more transparency and control in a very important area. I hope today for the SPÖ's approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e28993	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29015	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Dear Members of the House! The audiences have already got a little light on themselves, which is not incomprehensible for this time. If anyone else is at home in front of the screens: Citizens' values! Today we are dealing with the findings of the AMA Marketing Court of Auditors report, and I have to say that, of course, I can only join my previous speakers here, who have already summarized very well, especially Mr Pirklhuber, where the misunderstandings are precisely. I would nevertheless like to make two points. The first point is that I would really like to thank the Court of Auditors and your staff. It is a great report with very, very clear instructions and instructions, which I believe can be implemented very well and very quickly. The second point I would like to raise here is that of course it is not a question of personally attacking the Federal Minister or the current Managing Director of AMA Marketing. Both were not responsible at the time, but one must of course take them into account now that they implement these things very quickly, very quickly, so the findings and instructions that are very clear. I think there are already positive signs that a lot has already been set in motion. For me, the friendly economy, as it said earlier, is a good point and a nice summary. But I think one step has to go back: What is it, then, how does the economy of friends come about? – At the end of the day, it comes from a lack of transparency, and for me this is the parentheses that I also read from the Court of Auditors’ criticism. It is about where the money comes from, where they go, how they are spent, how efficiently the funds are used and how quality is worked. I think the examples that we have heard make clear what misunderstandings there were and what abuses can be resolved very quickly. Agencies, services where you don't see how much money goes to an agency: One can of course say that it is an opaque performance that AMA Marketing does not see how much money is spent on agencies as a whole. I think anyone or anyone who has worked in the field of marketing – I have more than ten years of international experience in this field – knows that there are volumes of floods in circuits passed on by a creative agency to a switching agency. These volumes must be repaid either to the customer, the AMA, or to be taken into account as part of the creative fee. It didn't happen. That seems to me to be a little bit of this friendly economy again, because I am quite sure that the capable employees who have the AMA marketing know and know that. Theirs was certainly aware, so it will be important to close and clean up well there. The other things were called all, the contracts that were not concluded, funds that were distributed, that's all right. I am just saying that farmers, whose amounts will be withdrawn, have a right to be treated efficiently and effectively with their resources. They can't choose who they give their advertising fees, they're forced to be cancelled – as in other chambers. But it must be comprehensible, and it must now be applied quickly. I think it is good that the findings should already be implemented. As far as I am concerned – it has been said, also in the Committee – is that things have been set in motion, but not exactly when these things are implemented and when they are to come back to control. It would be my wish to get a more concrete timetable. With this request I conclude and am very pleased if we could quickly see the results of these investigations. We have to stick to that, and I wish that and look forward to the support of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29066	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29089	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have three Court of Auditors reports on this item on the agenda today. I dedicate my speech to AMA Marketing. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, thank you very much for this interesting, informative and very critical report. My previous speakers have already mentioned many points of this report, but some have to be repeated, because there is really a lot in the arrogance and the Court of Auditors also very clearly points out this. I would also like to say that I should like to thank Mr Jannach, who initiated this examination with colleagues from his group. The examination period – which has already been mentioned – was 2010 to 2014. The wrong look, the friendly economy, the lack of funding contracts, inaccurate records, which we have heard before, are the main criticisms in this Court of Auditors report. We also agree with the request and will agree that further examinations are being carried out. It cannot be – 80 percent of these around €22 million will be abolished by farmers in the dairy and meat sectors – that these funds will then be misused for your party through the economy of friends, advertisements, advertising links et cetera. We also referred to Mr Blass in the committee as regards the advertising – Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned it. This has been denied, but if you read the Court of Auditors' report more accurately and if you compare and look at the timing of the elections, then the criticism is of course true. This must also be addressed and revealed, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be that way. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Perhaps the observer of the new movement can also make himself important, use and even intervene once, not only in other areas, so that the right of access may perhaps be applied in a meaningful manner. - You should never give up hope. The Court of Auditors or the President of the Council has said that there will be a follow-up review. 55 recommendations were made, 51 alone to the AMA, the others in connection with the ministry, that has already been mentioned. These recommendations are implemented in a respectful manner because there is a one-year deadline for some. When the follow-up report comes, you will see how much has actually been implemented. However, these recommendations are not sufficient, but they also need further steps, as Mr Jannach has already said. And, of course, we'll be happy to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29139	Next is Mrs Mag. Becher in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29160	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria is not a large country, but a great country, and this is particularly true of the diversity and quality of food. A success story in this area is also the handling of scandals. For example, the wine scandal has only resulted from the quality wine producer Austria, which also makes this area sustainable and competitive. In the field of food meat, the legislator has also learned from recurring quality failures and has acquired quality control through the AMA. The Court of Auditors is of course also dedicated to the AMA Marketing GesmbH, and this report mentions in just a few minutes under point 17.2 that the AMA Marketing GesmbH should perhaps be more devoted to marketing and should not outsource these activities in a costly way. What is the Court's view of the increased activity of this AMA? – It has been mentioned a lot, I only briefly summarize it: It is used by private associations whose use of control is no longer accessible. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Young farmers!]] The number of staff increases by 38.7 percent during the four-year observation period. It is cooperated informally and without written agreement with the Chamber of Agriculture, and in the end there is no billing of joint projects over € 1 million. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is party funding, Mrs Colleague!]] It is co-operated with Austrian hail insurance, it becomes a commissioned grill magazine for the economic flop, and afterwards the AMA covers financial holes generously. The list could continue. A moral picture has been shown here, as a result of which the alarm bells should ring. Of course, it should be acknowledged that the new management has made a price correction and has also put forward a further prospect, but that does not change the overall failure of the superior authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29210	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29231	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jannach and Mr Pirklhuber. If there are discrepancies, they must be clarified, that is out of question. I think the ÖVP is also interested in the light coming into this dark. But I'm taking a position on TOP 12: Agricultural investment promotions and their impact. Investments in agricultural production amounted to € 714.84 million as the third largest support area in the rural development programme 2014 to 2020. Compared with the previous period 2007 to 2013, the available funding increased by almost one third. It is striking, according to the President of the Court of Auditors, that the uniform assessment of applications for funding in terms of economic efficiency and sustainability was only limited due to the lack of requirements. In addition, individual funding concerns were excluded from the selection procedure. I would be interested in this matter, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, which were excluded from funding. The Court of Auditors' report examined the countries of Upper Austria, Styria and Tyrol, but again, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, the question to you: Which funding concerns were not examined and were excluded from the examination? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29264	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29286	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to focus on the Court of Auditors' report on agricultural investment promotions and their impact and to address a few criticisms. More often, and this is true in many agricultural areas, national co-financing has been above the minimum necessary for EU funding. Why? – Because in the Agriculture Act, only norm is that EU funds should be fully collected. I do not understand this criticism because it is up to national legislators to set the level of national funds to be used in their financial laws. From my point of view, in the current situation of agriculture, it is well justified, in addition to the necessarily necessary co-financing, to provide additional tax resources for a well-functioning agriculture – in the light of healthy food production, a well-kept landscape, a species-friendly animal husbandry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point that has been criticised by the Court of Auditors is that the women's rate in the monitoring committee is only 30 percent. To this end, it should be noted that no rules shall be made for the posting of representatives or representatives. It is therefore, of course, difficult to achieve the corresponding proportion of women. In contrast, I can argue that in the LEADER area, for example, actual quotas for the LEADER Board of Directors are available to the selection body. However, this also leads to difficulties in practice. Why? – In order to achieve decision-making capacity, not only the number of members is crucial, but also the number of women. Another criticism was the promotion of small sums between € 1,000 and €3,000. I also see this point differentiated. Why? – Because it is an investment promotion for our small farmers and for the ad hoc farmers, which should in particular encourage quality improvement measures on the farm. Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural investment support for rural development is very important to me in order to promote and ultimately preserve our small-structured rural agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29332	Next, Mr Steinbichler. I'll set 8 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29353	Madam President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Watchers in front of the screens and on the gallery! [[The speaker presents a picture of a cargo ship with commercial containers on the speaker's desk and holds a newspaper section in hand.]] It has already been said a lot, and very significant for this AMA marketing report is that especially the AMA is the organization that examines the farmers particularly thoroughly – only if I consider how often our cows who are not traded on the farm are checked for earmarks. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you do not know that a calf, if it has not been reported seven days after birth, is no longer marketable and the use of animals – so as to know once how farmers are laid the handcuffs and footcuffs and how this organization is then extremely generously dealing with advertisements, poster advertising and advertising spots and to secure report pages in the daily newspapers for various functionalists and politicians. You have to know that, because that is in a very close context. Mr Pirklhuber pointed this out quite correctly: In particular at election times, these series are then strikingly common. This is to be condemned, even if you know that 72 percent of the funds come from the AMA marketing fees from the meat and milk sectors. Interestingly, the cereals sector is exempt from contributions. The item on the agenda tomorrow is also very interesting: AMA seal products with palm oil. Palm oil is also tax-free. This is always wonderful when it serves the yield and its own advantage, because then one is rather a bit more generous, just as with the commissions that have been charged there. There were double commissions and the €2.53 million paid to various clubs. This association policy is very interesting. The most important thing is: Dr. Blass is constantly talking about an added value strategy, and I have a very simple example: In 1970 a kilogram of pig schnitzel cost 59,90 Schilling – that's 4.35 €. Three weeks ago there was the action with €3.95 for the kilogram. Where is this added value strategy? – This can easily be read at the number of farms: Ten farms are closed every day, and then we have nice discussions about the conservation of rural areas. These are the facts. How far it is in the arrogance confirms the last edition of the “consumer” of the VKI in food labelling. I am glad that all colleagues now get this issue so that they know how to create a trade mark. It is extremely considerate: I've been to the Jause Essiggurkerl, Cornichons with honey. [[Keeping a glass with acetic cucumbers in height]] Wonderful! The only thing to read about this is the trade chain, and the address from which it is delivered, ladies and gentlemen. I particularly ask the representatives of the consumer party: Let us use the time in the next months and this free play of forces to implement these long-needed laws such as the Quality Seal Act! Let us stop with the label and brand fault, which ultimately only serves the surplus yield and does nothing to make the food healthier and more honest! Let us decide these laws in the next few months! That's why I showed this issue of "consumer" with the trademarks, with the AT sign. That's exactly the point. I was disappointed at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture that it was postponed that there should not be an AT sign on foreign pigs, foreign cattle in the Austrian slaughterhouses. That is the basis for fraud, because that is exactly this trademark. At the same time, AT is stamped on the packaging, and then at the barbecue festivals we have the hendln with three nationalities on the table. These are the very foundations by which regional production is destroyed. These quantities come with the ship, with the commercial containers, and then at some point is the right pickerl on it, which says that everything is all right – the healing world, but unfortunately only the healing advertising world. This is the main problem, particularly in the food sector. There is currently a product to buy in Vienna, medial has been advertised in all newspapers – there is only the advertising. The product is still the same as before because there is neither the slaughterhouse nor the suppliers. If this is to be marketing, if this goes to the AMA marketing, then it is even more important to examine, and I think it is necessary to agree to my colleague, Mr Hell, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Jannach, all the previous speakers who have spoken that there should be no further clarification, as well as this request. I think that is a matter of course. One point that is also very important is investment in agricultural production. What there is for a margin, what is considered agricultural, the skin, literally, the barrel out of the ground, especially since the terms are very widespread. I have already shown this a few times in agricultural support – for example, broadband promotion and all measures from the bureaucracy area are included there. It is similar in agricultural production and marketing. It can make a person relatively quick to use agricultural means, and that is especially worth testing. It was addressed by a previous speaker that it should also be carefully examined whether this is being used in a targeted manner. I believe that this is the highest responsibility, since it is also about the tax money of our citizens. It should be carefully examined so that no abuse is carried out. In this sense, we agree with Mr Jannach's request. We think this makes a lot of sense. It is really sad that, as with the Federal Government, these committees of inquiry are constantly needed, because especially in those organisations in which the forced members are being tested so hard, one should be able to assume that they themselves serve as a model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29432	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29453	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, thank you very much to Mr Jannach. Yes, it is really significant how to get such a Court of Auditors report on the period from 2010 to 2014. Thanks also to Mr Pirklhuber. Leo Steinbichler always confuses everything, he's already in the election campaign, so I don't want to interpret it all. One thing has shown us, however, that such Court of Auditors reports can also be very good as an instrument. As the Republic of Austria, we also pay the Court of Auditors over €300 million for these reports. Incomprehensiblely, criticism often occurs. This point is absolutely in order for me, it belongs to audited, without any rest. But one thing you have to say to defend Dr. Blass: He was only raised in this office in 2013 and was only a few months in that office. I can remember: 2014, I think, in September, the demand for review was made. In these few months, however, substantial measures have already been taken. So you can't let Dr. Blass stand there, he didn't deserve it. He has already begun 46 of these 55 points in my knowledge, and we will of course see what comes out in the follow-up. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, however, I must practice criticism, first of all at the Court of Auditors itself. There are many affected mayors present, and I know what I'm talking about: If the institutions are examined, then this is the case. It is absolutely right, it is also awarded and paid for; but it cannot be that the APA is informed two hours before its own mayor could ever take a position. This is an unfair game of the Court of Auditors, and I really ask you to ensure that at least the persons concerned are informed in good time and also keep this raw report in hand and that it is not played to the APA, so a minimum of respect can be expected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second one, which you have overshadowed, is, Madam President: If you believe that you as the President of the Court of Auditors can approach the APA and say that you will minimize the legislative period of Members to four years, then you have covered your areas of responsibility at Weitem. I beg you, step back behind this red line, occupied You, with the Court of Auditors, bring us the reports we'll send you, then you're my friend again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29504	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29526	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! On the topic of AMA's audit of the Court of Auditors: Austria's high quality agricultural products are widely known and estimated. The non-agricultural consumer is known to AMA mainly from massive advertising. Farm operators, on the other hand, will complain of a completely different assessment. Repeatingly, non-comprehensible controls on farms are impinging on the public to the detriment of farmers. As a company distributed by the state, AMA takes over control tasks, administrative tasks, licensing management, the handling of performance fees and the examination of funding programmes. It is known that test procedures are carried out, for example, in animal husbandry or in the alpine areas, restrictively and partly not comprehensiblely. Such measures do not encourage agriculture; the opposite is the case. This leads to numerous closures. It is also known that Group productions are not or extremely rare and generously audited by the AMA. Bakeries and breweries, on the other hand, are restrictive, whose products would also require product safety. In this context, genetic engineering must also be addressed – genetic engineering, which in addition to experimental areas is also a danger to domestic agriculture and consumers through free trade agreements such as CETA. With the increasing audit activity of the AMA, the demand for an audit by the Court of Auditors appears to be well justified, because trust is good, control is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29557	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29578	Madam President. The current situations and current possibilities naturally lead to intense discussions in all the fields of justice and home affairs. The aim of the programme is to: Reform, reform, reform! Madam President, this is also urgently necessary in the Court of Auditors. We have always had the experience that the items on the agenda regarding the Court of Auditors are constantly at the end of the agenda. We are just about the foreseeable midnight program, and that must change, because control is just important. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] This is always demonstrated by the Committee of Inquiry. In this sense, I am very, very grateful to the Court of Auditors for controlling many areas over and over again. Many reports by the Court of Auditors on Eurofighter procurement, we say it completely neutral, are also based on orders from the National Council. These were special exams, and we are discussing a special exam today. How important these special reviews are to the need for reform, which we are making in Parliament, and which you will then provide to us, Madam President, with your proven team, we see on the basis of this discussion. What we fail to do in part again and again – I say it very carefully, partly fail – is to draw the consequences. Now we have heard that the Minister is quite ready to do so at the AMA. There will now be a discussion on the issue of cereals and, finally, the farmers should also make contributions to the marketing of Austrian agricultural products. After all, this was a promise, and this is based on the fact that you have shown and pointed out this with your report. We also read in the Court of Auditors' report on the issue of procurement. I mean, it is like a red thread through various reports to recognize that the federal awarding law is always managed in part a bit generously – that is also very politely said again – or is partially ignored. And the result also shows, for example, this report on the AMA: It is granted, not written out, the criteria are unclear, there are certain circles that benefit from them and are commissioned. I wonder why the AMA is only now thinking of reinterpreting the EU legal framework so that it can do just as much as the wine marketing that is done there: Why forgive if you can do it yourself? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also a call to ourselves for other topics: Why sort it out if we can do it ourselves? . This is often a discussion that inspires the Court of Auditors with its reports. In conclusion, I would like to express my hope that what we have already done in an intergroup way, and that what goes back to your suggestions, Madam President, is to improve certain areas in the auditing system, which cost nothing but bring us something by the Court of Auditors working more efficiently – a duty of truth, more transparency, I say now, improved transparency in the chamber examinations – all that has really been done. This does not cost us anything; it should be done, and this also shows the willingness to reform in the field of the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29639	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29660	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I want myself – honor, To whom honor is due – to join the praise and thanks to colleagues Jannach. It needs the initiative to do so. I would not have believed that if you had told me before – I also know your critical contributions in advance – what is happening at AMA Marketing. I have to say that. I could not have imagined that such abuses are possible in the truest sense of the word; After all, the economy of friends is a noble expression for reading it through. You have already referred to page 101, which is a scandalous report without any equal. You just have to say that. We also need to consider – and I agree with Mr Moser’s statement – what we need to reform, whether we cannot also commit the Court of Auditors, when it comes to criminal acts, actually become active on its own, because these forgivenesss, errors of award, if one wants to call this cautiously, make fun of every description. They're to be remembered, that's not a question! [[Congratulations with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I'm going to give my colleague, Knes, when he says you can't make Dr. Blass responsible for everything. When a follow-up test comes, you have to look very closely at what was actually true and what was implemented by what was reported to us. And the question is also: What does it look like today, if there were no such special examination you requested? – Then, I dare say that, this abuse would continue to be true, and that is unbearable. Secondly, Madam President, you have seen it on the speech by Mr Knes, we are very committed to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and the Members are of course very sensitive if, from our point of view, you bring things into the policy, but we believe that this is not your task. Whether or not to shorten the legislative period is a matter for Parliament, just as it is for Parliament to leave its term of office at twelve years. This is Parliament's case, and we do not want to let ourselves talk about it from our point of view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] On another point, I am rather of your opinion in terms of content, but still feel that it is not your job as President of the Court of Auditors; I see that you have to profile, you want to put your own fragrance brand – I see it all. The following is what you have called for, namely that Parliament cannot simply be dissolved, but that it has been elected for the legislative period, this circus, which we have currently experienced or experienced in particular with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, would not have been possible, because then Parliament would be forced to see if we have a government that is willing to implement the reform measures we need. You have announced that you will give the new government ten points along the way. In this sense, I really ask you: First bring these points to the Court of Auditors! I do not understand that this is about a press conference and the Members concerned are not informed of it. I would like to discuss this with you first, saying: Yes, we think that's good and right! and then do it. They're our agents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29719	Next, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Dr. Kraker to speak. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29741	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank you for allowing me to take the floor to conclude these agenda items and to speak on a number of points. The first point concerns the audit report we presented – the audit report on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH. It was a request examination by Mr Jannach, colleagues of September 2014. We have carried out this conduct audit in accordance with business rules and submitted the report to the National Council in November 2016. Personally, I can tell you that I am very pleased that the report was really comprehensively discussed, was also discussed in a timely manner, both in the competent Committee on Agriculture and in the Court of Auditors almost two weeks ago. All the questions, all the materials, all the issues have already been taken up, as has been done here in this debate. In view of the advanced period, I therefore want to concentrate only on essential points. Two points were key areas of this test report, the field of award and compliance. The debate of the Committee also focused on the role of the owner; we also discussed how GmbHs, companies and companies are to behave, which are owned by the public authorities. We have said that the agricultural resort as the owner of the AMA has supervisory, opposition and direction rights. There were no direct orders, but there were only indirect instructions to the AMA. The supervisory law of the Ministry covers, in particular, the legal performance of tasks, and it would be possible, for example, to issue appropriate orders in the field of procurement law. We also said: It has provided the AMA of AMA Marketing with various administrative services, but without any contractual basis. It is also true that there was no standardized flow of information and no reporting between AMA's control bodies as the AMA's owner, the AMA's Internal Revision Service, and AMA Marketing as a subsidiary. And the Supervisory Board of the AMA was not sufficiently informed, in particular, by the former Managing Director, so that we made recommendations. A point was the cooperation with agencies and associations. We have encouraged, for example, the marketing of wine in principle with the European Commission, to explain whether it would be possible to reduce the dependence on agency services accordingly. There were creative agencies that took over tasks – consulting, conception, planning, design – and switching agencies. Competitions for the award of creative services were inadequate in many respects, such as the independence of the Price Court. The Agency's fee was low. We also recommend that AMA Marketing carry out the core tasks of planning and coordinating marketing activities itself in the future and that services pass on to third parties only in the absence of expertise. The topic of the agency commission was then discussed in relation to the switching agency. This was the question of the overview of AMA Marketing. In connection with the implementation of individual projects there were a number of problems. The issue was the question of written settlements, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures and a corresponding contractual basis. The control orders concerned the issue of the application of the contract law, the Federal Procurement Act. The Court of Auditors calls for strict compliance with contract law. The issue is that new procurement procedures will be initiated in good time, that new invitations to tender will be renewed and that rules on variable prices for longer term contracts will be complied with. We have also made very specific findings on the subject of compliance: the question of a code of conduct, compliance manager and perception and respect for conflicts of interest. There were, as has been said, these 55 recommendations. What is positive is that the competent Federal Minister and also the current managing director were very willing to address these recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I announced to the committee that we will make a follow-up review. After the Court of Auditors procedure, it is the case that in the first year we will start a demand procedure, which will enable us to learn from the body under examination how the recommendations will be implemented. In the second year there is a real follow-up review, and we are once again looking at what has actually been done by the Court of Auditors. If you allow me to say something about another report, which is a follow-up review, it concerns the Federal Institute for Agriculture. We are also really concerned with the implementation of recommendations, and we have, for example, given the very concrete recommendation of a merger of the Federal Institute for Agriculture with the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen, because it is always about the issue of the implementation of reforms. That's not done either. I just wanted to remind you. The question of agricultural investment promotions and their impact was also addressed in the course of the debate. The focus was on investment in agricultural production. This is with € 714.84 million the third largest funding area in this context. We have criticized the distribution, the loss compensation for direct payments. We have looked at how it looks with aspects of effect and individual indicators, but I can then explain to you personally. Now I wanted to address the criticism that my person had. I would like to tell you that I am very keen to do a good job for Parliament, to be available with advice and action. With regard to this point, it was naturally a matter of concern for the implementation of reforms. The Court of Auditors makes reform proposals. Yes, Mr Mayer, we can talk about what are the ten most important reform points of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors draws from a wealth of recommendations, and I think it is good to make them more concrete, and I am willing to present them to you. As far as the raw reports are concerned, it is not the Court's fault that they go out. It is very often the audited bodies that make the reports public, and it is never the Court of Auditors itself. So I ask you to really pay attention to this. We deliver audit results and then we submit them at the time of publication. As far as parliamentaryism is concerned, I can tell you that, of course, I was not involved in the core field of parliamentary work. In addition, Perhaps now is not the right time to have an objective discussion on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29823	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 10: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-321 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a novel of the AMA law in 1992 because of the shortcomings in the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH. Who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-299 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-372 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:24:51]] 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the reorganisation of the Parliament building – Deeper preliminary draft – Series Bund 2017/6 (III-357/1627 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29912	Now we reach the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29940	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The major Parliament renewal project has been and has been constantly accompanied by the Court of Auditors. We have already received a first report in 2012, now, 2017, the second one has appeared. Parliament has asked the Court of Auditors to accompany this major restructuring project. I can predict that this report is, in principle, very positive. Let me give you a few examples: For example, the Court of Auditors stresses that it is fine that users have been involved so early, the user advisory board has been installed, one resorts to the know-how of the federal real estate company. This is said to be positive. With the establishment of the Parliamentary Building Rehabilitation Society, a four-eye principle is guaranteed. The strategy of the General Planner and the procedure of the decision-making templates are in principle appropriate. Summa summarum were mostly implemented 22 suggestions and 11 sub-recommendations. However, I would like to address two criticisms: In this report, the Court of Auditors criticises the level of reserves made up of 35 percent, usually 15 to 20 percent for large construction projects. However, I would like to say that this is a matter of planned safety. We all know that Parliament is a historic building, a listed building, and everyone who has some time to do with building renovations knows that there can quickly be an unforeseen case where one really has to have access to a budget. So one has planned so well-wise and forward-looking. And I have to say, The reserves have not been attacked until now. On a second point of criticism in this report: The so-called new local II is criticized, i.e. that local under the historic meeting room. They say it's too big. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to include in the considerations that a Parliament building has appropriate purposes to fulfil. I am thinking of investigative committees, and we know that it may not only be a committee of inquiry, but also a second one to do its work in parallel, and it must find appropriate adapted spaces. In the Committee, in which we have already discussed this report, both the Vice-President of Parliament and the President of the Court of Auditors have praised and stressed very good and constructive cooperation. I have already said that the fundamental principle of the report is positive. However, I would like to address a point that has already irritated me when reading this report. This is about the duration of the processing of additional offers by the Directorate of Parliament. The wording used does not seem to be quite as objective as one might expect, but above all it contradicts this consistently positive tenor. I'm allowed to quote: ‘With the exceedance of the specified processing times in all three cases, in particular with the excess of the four or four times. Six times in two cases, the Parliament's Directorate counter-tracted the principle of fairness and partnership." I have to say quite honestly that “countercaring” is perhaps not quite the right formulation in this context. I do not want to prescribe anyone, not at all, but I really want to make the usual, well-founded and factual assessments in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e29995	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30016	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report on the deepening of the preliminary draft on Parliament's renewal is, for me, something like a example, like itself. accompanying or at least very timely examination can have a positive impact on the progress of a project. From November 2015 to March 2016, the Court of Auditors examined the preparation of the in-depth preliminary draft and then presented the results of the examination to the Parliamentary Directorate very quickly. It has already implemented a large part of the 40 recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. The examination itself covered the period from 2012 to the release of the deepened preliminary draft in November 2015 and was also started immediately after the end of 2015. If I have spoken of a very positive example of accompanying control, this - and this also results from this report - applies to the entire project of Parliament renewal. The team of the Parliamentary Rehabilitation Society under the direction of Parliamentary Vice Director Wintoniak set up this project in such a way that the main key points could also be considered very positive by the Court of Auditors, in various areas. For example, the schedule was called very ambitious, but also the well-functioning project organisation of this very complex project. Of course, the Court of Auditors has made, and this is one of its tasks, a number of proposals for improvement, including, for example, the organisational and project manual. A concern which the Court of Auditors consistently pursues in all examinations is the transparency and comprehensibleness of all parties involved. The suggestions have also been taken up and are being implemented to ensure that this necessary renovation of our Parliament building continues as smoothly as it has been. The early involvement of the user advisory board was seen very positively. In this context, however, there were also some criticisms. The costs for the Committee's location under the hall of the Federal Assembly have already been addressed. This led to the rather unusual and rare situation that the Court of Auditors was also concerned with criticism of the opposition. This is not very common, but the location determines the point of view. If the Rules of Procedure of the National Council allow a second parallel committee of inquiry, then the spatial conditions must be present. Another criticism of the Court of Auditors was the lack of future allocation of the Parliament building after the period of renovation. But this is a point that was always provided with three different variants in advance. Modern building management must be able to react to changing conditions in a timely manner. After a choice, they can be available, and they will probably also be available. The fact that the costs for the deepened preliminary draft were about €3 million below the calculation is another very positive detail to which the Parliament's Directorate must be congratulated. All in all, this is a very positive report on a very professional project.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30072	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30095	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, we have received a report on Parliament renewal, which I have read relatively soon. We received a brief broadcast from the Court of Auditors on the renewal of Parliament, which was two-sided. I have read them soon, after I have also followed the media reports. It must be noted, I believe, that the contradiction between the report and what has come out in the media is far worse, because the report basically states that the project organisation, the planning is very good. The report then has quite a focus on where a few things have been found that can be discussed. I then came to the point or noticed, it is actually a pity that this is always the summary. Apparently, the Court of Auditors is also ticking according to the media: If you write in that it works, no one writes about it; if you write in, it doesn't work, it is written about it. The difficulty is then only: What is the basis of assessment? So if the Court of Auditors reports – not everyone who looks great at it – it may also be helpful to say: The project works, there are huge difficulties there, and this in the form then opens up some problems. What has been criticized is some of the things that we have tried to clarify several times. I believe that there has hardly been a project in the House in recent years, which has been prepared as carefully as this Parliament renewal. The user advisory board meets in about a month, with several excursions in European countries, where, I believe, there is great consensus, and that, across fractions, one takes away what makes sense for this House. When it comes to whether it really manages to stay in the cost frame, I am very positive at the moment – with: listed house! What's behind the walls, we'll see in part, that's a question of our own. However, some things are simply political decisions; and I do not know now whether it is real that we have two parallel committees of inquiry. I just know that we have the responsibility to create the premises for this in the process of Parliament renewal. Whether this is politically meaningful or not is another chapter. The question is whether we can count on comparable sizes; if we say that we go then, store it out and continue it two streets, that will not be particularly attractive either. Just like the question that we do not have detailed planning for the occupation of the house for the next few years: Yes, if you can tell me what the elections in the years 2017 and 2022 are going to be, how many political groups will be in what order, then we could deliver it. It only shows that this could open up certain problems. So the flexibility that is inside is due to a certain sense, which simply looks different in Parliament than in other ideas. I say once again, it would have been nice if things had been taken in, where I think: Is all of this so meaningful? – So we sit inside here, and there are these wonderful rooms right next door, namely these small rooms. In the meantime we have this in the user advisory board, I think, in general also referred to as the depression chamber: without windows, as small as possible, embroidered as possible. The monument says: listed, that must in principle remain the same as it is. In addition, these original telephone cells are where this – so it's not a coin phone – depends on the number telephone where you can go in, get up there, it's the light, you can call. In the meantime, I think, you're going in so that the cell phone is protected that you don't hear it. This too is listed. So these are rooms that are in the immediate vicinity of the plenary room, and we all wonder: Is it the task of the Monument Office to do a museum where the central premises would actually be? There, I think, the Court of Auditors could have said: Well, sensuality, financial usefulness, space, cost-effectiveness. There you could have looked at it, so the Federal Monument Office is not sakrosanct either. To sum up, the report says: The project is on the right track. Some things need to be questioned too, there is also a certain dispute. But it's still annoying me, these funny phone cells for the next 70 years! There the students come in 70 years and ask what this museum is supposed to do. The Bundesdenkmalamt could have jumped over its shadows.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30159	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30181	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I believe that what we see with regard to the Court of Auditors' monitoring is that we have made a very good political decision by wanting this monitoring. I think it is also very useful – and I do not want to go into the details now – that you make proposals and we can deal with how we deal with them. I believe that we, as legislators and as Parliament, are guilty of the fact that we, of course, Mr Brosz, rightly referred to it, have to make certain political decisions, which may sometimes seem less logical from a financial point of view. It is nevertheless relevant that we get the proposals from you. In this context: Thank you for the work! We also discussed it in the Building Committee: I believe that we will just have to continue to look closely at the fact that we are dealing with the financial resources carefully and that we are continuing to do so well. Perhaps I would like to make a comment on Mr Mayer, because he almost, I say now, was a little sad – do not take it badly, but it has sounded a bit sad – to the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors for the Quasi new election ban. I have also made the proposal. Now you can say: Okay, it's not the ultimate competence, or probably the competence of the Court of Auditors to make proposals to the legislator. On the other hand, this proposal can also be interpreted in such a way that the President of the Court of Auditors was concerned that unnecessary expenditure should be incurred – we know that this whole new election and permanent new elections always lead to unnecessary expenditure – that she meant it very well. You can still be of the opinion that you don't want to hear it. That's legitimate. I hold this as a very self-confident parliamentarian and I am also pleased about such debates. We don't have to do it. In this respect, of course, the President of the Court of Auditors may, in my opinion, make proposals here at least as a body of the National Council. If one makes a clear wall and says that this is not legitimate, then I would like to see it much more often also from representatives of the government parties to the Federal Government, because there are always things that are actually very concrete tasks of Parliament, where members of the government are somehow trying to interfere in the real first tasks of Parliament. Yeah, it's legitimate to say you don't want to hear that. Personally, I'm doing a good job. I might wish it more often to the Federal Government, and there it might be as appropriate as today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30229	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30250	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I consider the Court of Auditors' monitoring of the Parliament reform project to be very important. On this report: The Court of Auditors has made some points critically, such as the expansion plans below the historic meeting room, the high-level risk reserves that no cost-benefit analysis is available. But it was also – and so did we in the Court of Auditors – the project manager, Mr. Mag. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] Wintoniak, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, stresses good cooperation. The Court of Auditors has also explicitly praised the project organisation. Most of the recommendations have been implemented by the preliminary report, and they are co-floats. I think it is also good and right that, as mentioned earlier, the Court of Auditors is doing this accompanying control. Criticism comes from one side or another – yes, it is left to everyone as he sees it. I think it's positive, as I said. It's a big project, it's a unique project, it's a cost-intensive project, a necessary, of course, yes. [[Abg. Wöger: A necessary!]] We are not against it, but we should just put things on the table, too, which are about to be discussed. In view of the advanced period, I would like to conclude by expressly thanking the President of the Court of Auditors for this report, including the project leader Mag. Wintoniak and the whole team, as Parliament staff have more or less a double burden, because normal work continues and, of course, the Parliament renewal project also takes up a lot of work and time. A warm thanks from my side and a nice evening! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30291	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30314	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I can make it relatively short. I would like to join with what Mr Greiner said, and also with what Mr Brosz said. In view of the specific nature of this building and the conditions for the restoration of the monument, I believe that even very far-sightedly from those concerned, 35 percent as a precautionary measure, is a little higher than usual. I also asked the Committee how to reach 20 percent. There you came to speak on tunnels and other things. I don't think that's how it can be compared. The examples we have mentioned, and I believe, also the experience that is coming, will show that we can be happy if we find out with these 35 percent. That's why, I think, it's important. I'm clear, too. It's a mature test for everyone. It is a mature test for the parliamentarians who make themselves available to help and participate in this. It is a major challenge for Parliament's management, but also for the Court of Auditors, which normally makes ex-post checks exclusively; that is, on average, matter of examination, I admit. One must also be there accompanying, and this needs high sensitivity. I believe, however, that if this succeeds, this renovation of the Parliament building can be a successful project for all if one brings in the Court of Auditors' experience. I have experienced random examples; an employee who has discussed with a construction manager and has pointed out: I would like to have this very thing, because the billing must look like that, because we are not only controlling Parliament's management, but also the Court of Auditors. – This is very important, and we know that massively we are looking at how we deal with the tax money when we rebuild the Parliament building. The second one might still be to colleague Scherak: Please, I already understand that you feel inflated because a President of the Court of Auditors shares your political opinion. I also share them in substance, I also believe that it would be right to choose Parliament that the government should be guided by Parliament. Only: This is not the responsibility of the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I appreciate your competence in the areas of examination, but that's not your job. I see it already that if you are through and through a political person – that is you, that is also your good right – then often the Gaul likes to go through with one. But at the beginning we want to clarify: The Court of Auditors has to do things that are the matters with which we order it to be there for us to take control, but not to make policy for us. That's what we do! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30364	Next, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kraker, spoke. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30385	Madam President. I would like to refer very briefly to the report and say that it is an audit of the Court of Auditors which was carried out at the request of the National Council, at the request of the then President Barbara Prammer, who asked the Court of Auditors and informed them that it was a very important issue for the political groups. The Court of Auditors is responsible for monitoring the further process. This also corresponded to a request from the Presidential Conference. The issue was the assessment and examination of the project structure and the project organisation. I do not want to address the issue of the electoral term now, but I would just like to say that the President has also expressed a similar opinion on fixed electoral periods. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I understood what you told me. In principle, the subject-matter of the first review was the planning project. We presented this first report in November 2012. At the initiative of the President and after the completion of the preliminary draft plan approved by the builder in November 2015, we then agreed to the second discharge review by the Court of Auditors. What is it if you bring the Court of Auditors? – The Court of Auditors' task is to take an external and critical look at a project. One considers and evaluates the entire project and, of course, takes into account the specificities of a project. The Court of Auditors has made a very constructive contribution here and wants to assist Parliament with its expertise. There was a consultation procedure. There is the opinion of Parliament's Directorate, where the cooperation of the audit team has been explicitly highlighted. In addition, we have spoken and answered the Building Committee and the User Advisory Board. I confess that it is not easy to renovate this historically unique building, and that this is a very important decision of yours, which you also make. This timely review will allow recommendations from the Court of Auditors to be implemented as well. There were 145 suggestions in the first project, and a large part of these recommendations were also implemented. It is also important to me at this point to draw your attention to the fact that I think it is essential that the suggestions of both the Court of Auditors and project management and monitoring are taken into account and taken seriously. We say this with the reserves based on our test experience and do so because we believe that with the progress of the project these reserves can also be melted off. We need stable cost developments and a precise deadline tracking. The Court of Auditors must make criticism and point to the need for improvement and cannot look away from it. But he has also explicitly emphasized positive things. He gave a positive assessment of the project organisation and documentation of the procurement processes. He also considered the process of the release of the deepened preliminary draft to be very useful and comprehensible. I can tell you that despite the critical view, the Court of Auditors is on your side. I think you prove political far-sightedness with the renovation of the Parliament building – a far-sighted view not only for the next legislative period, but for the next 150 years. To protect the monument, I can tell you: There is a separate test report for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30449	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-357 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:50:08]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30492	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr Strolz, colleagues, to the Justice Committee for reporting on Amendment 498/A by Mr Dr Nikolaus Scherak, Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 16. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[22:50:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-05-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e30525	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2143/A(E) to 2160/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.51 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
