ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e2916	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Austrian Federal Government! I'm opening the 192. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 188 and 189. Meeting of 28. ==References====External links== Meeting of 29. In June 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Katzian, Mag. Groiß, Haubner, Dr. Dächterle, Jannach, Kitzmüller, Lausch, Neubauer, Brosz, Dr. Lichtenecker, Dr. Walser, Gamon, Schellhorn, Dr. Winter and Doppler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e2947	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Mag. Jörg Leichtfried is represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger. [[10:03:15]] Ceremony on the occasion of the murder of a married couple in Linz
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e2992	Ladies and gentlemen! For over 15 years now, we, the Western world, have faced a new, previously unknown dimension of Islamic fundamentalist terrorism. We have held many fundamental debates in this House, and we have, in particular, tried to convince that terrorist, extremist attacks never contribute to resolving problems. Extremist attacks must be condemned to the sharpest, and as democrats, we must make every effort to defend our fundamental values of an open society. Unfortunately, we have had to remember the victims of such extremist attacks in the House over the last few years. The news of the brutal murder of an older couple in Linz at the end of June has now made us aware that Austria is not immune to these tendencies. The exact circumstances and backgrounds have not yet been clarified, the police investigations in this regard are on high-speed. Even if it is our responsibility as the politicians of the Republic of Austria not to express any premature conclusions and assumptions, thus strengthening the fears and uncertainty of the population, one can say with certainty today: Our compassion at this hour applies to the family and to the friends of the murdered. In the hope that our open and democratic society will soon overcome violence and terror, I should like to ask you to be a sign of solidarity and of solidarity. think of raising the squares. [[Those present rise from their seats and persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take up their seats again.]] I announce that this meeting will be carried over in full length from ORF 2 to longest 13.00 and from ORF III. [[10:06:11]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3048	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:06:22]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 12483/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3183	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 13054/J by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on ‘Palm oil in feed’ by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:07:05]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3207	I would also like to inform you that Mr Strolz has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Dr. Hable's motion for a resolution (412/A) on income tax law be limited to 19. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3233	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day-blocking period of 2 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times would arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 27, FPÖ 25, Green 21 and NEOS and STRONACH each 11 minutes. The number of speakers is determined by the size of the group at this meeting. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure will limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes in today's only debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the just-described speaking time. I would like to ask all the Members who are voting in favour of this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:08:38]] Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2162/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXV. The legislative period of the National Council ended prematurely (1675 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3300	We shall now proceed to the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2162/A. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3327	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear viewers and visitors here in Parliament, in Parliament, which will be rebuilt and renewed over the next few years! Today's decision will end the legislative period prematurely, and I've just been talking to some people in the last few days and have said: If it is not strange, then the election campaign will be proclaimed, and then, at once, in the last part-sessions in Parliament, substantial and important decisions for our country are often carried out not only with the majority of governments but in a broad majority?- Oh, my God! I have answered the people who have spoken about this: Yeah, it's funny, but you have to say quite honestly, it's better than we wouldn't have decided these things! – It is better that we have abolished the nursing rule, which is unfair, than that we have said, it is only election campaign and we all speak beautifully and do nothing. That is, to make decisions for the country, that is the responsibility we should have in the election campaign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the election campaign... [[Abg. Kickl: In the evening the lazy will be diligent!]] – You can talk about yourself afterwards, if you want. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: But it's still tomorrow!]] In the election campaign, Mr Kickl, one speaks much too often of the candidates – also of you. They then only talk about themselves and the H.-C., the big pictures on the posters, it's only more about people, and actually it's wrong, because it's about Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Turn around and say the same thing again!]] It is about the future of our country, and it is about developing our country well and properly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about Austria again today and we'll save ourselves this back and forth! Let us talk about how our country has developed, where it is going and what has to happen in order to shape the future well! The Economic Research Institute and the IHS have recently revised significant forecasts. The Wifo has increased its GDP forecast for this year from 2.0 percent in March to 2.4%. [[Abg. Kickl: Well the reaction to the government!]] The IHS, the Institute for Higher Studies, also takes place from 2.2 percent growth, as it originally thought, from 1.7 percent. The economic research institutes also expect that private consumption will rise again – this is an essential support for the economy – and that inflation will remain at the level on which it is, that is, it will not rise. Yes, there are a few price drivers in inflation that you have to fight, and I'll say something later. Finally, we also note that a discharge is noticeable in the labour market. Liberation means that more people have jobs than before, discharge means that unemployed people will find a job more easily, that unemployment is going back in our country, but it doesn't mean that you can simply lean back – even later on. The Boston Consulting Group – truly not a spindoctor of any party or a government representative who represents numbers, but a hardy consulting group – has placed Austria in fourth place as far as the quality of life is concerned, because it believes that it is almost nowhere in the world better than in Austria. The fact that we are doing so well in Austria and that it is so good that it can be lived here also highlights essential factors, namely investment in the public sector and living together. However, it is also clear to us as politicians that the fact that every study, each consulting group will give us a good witness does not mean that you can lean back and say: Great!, but we know that areas such as the quality of life and the quality of living together also face great challenges and that we must face major challenges in the future. The labour market, I have already said, is recovering, yet we must not look away. The older unemployed are those who are very often laid down by society to old iron, although they have not deserved it, and therefore we have deliberately opposed it with the “Action 20,000” and all these measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area in the labour market concerns the young people, because simply to say: Okay, it's better now! It's not enough. We must develop our young people's teaching and vocational training in such a way that they can also face the future challenge of economic development that apprentices are again the backbone of our economy by being well-trained professionals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the end, Austria's economic success works only with good professionals and good employees, which we have in all companies in Austria. Education is also such a point. Yes, we have decided to reform education – in reality the technical answer to the problems in the education system – and now it is about developing, together with the teachers, the teachers, the students, all interested in a modern education system, what is fun in learning, enabling future-oriented learning, and also to carry the challenges of a digital world, such as through the equipment of school classes and students with laptops, with digital teaching content, more into our classrooms of the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When talking about quality of life, it is always about infrastructure – as I mention only the railways, the expansion with high-performance rail networks in our country, and also the digital infrastructure is now a very central one – but also the beauty of our landscape, especially in summer when the tourists come when we are enthusiastic about walking through Austria. The beauty of nature is nothing we can do for. [[Abg. Lugar: Oh, that's it? The SPÖ can't do anything for the beauty of nature?]] This has just come about like this, but what we can do for is to protect it, not to allow the beauty of nature to be destroyed and installed, and that is our task, ladies and gentlemen, too! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Lugar]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Moser.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The chancellor is running his forehead!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How is this with the stone yard grounds?]] It is also an important point for the children, and today there was a discussion in the “Morgenjournal” about a second free kindergarten year. Yes, we have made great progress in Austria by offering a large number of kindergartens, very often also free of charge, but we cannot adequately satisfy the storm, the demand. That is to say, we must make further efforts in this regard and also extend the Article 15a agreement so that the money is not only available to the countries and communities but also invested accordingly. I believe that what we need is not just a discussion, but the implementation of Austrian quality standards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our kindergartens need the same quality standards as regards educational training, value training, education of young people to democrats, to open, questionable and awakened people. We need quality standards in our country as regards opening hours and education. Ladies and gentlemen! I could continue the list for a long time now, and that is why this election campaign will take place. We should not forget in the election campaign that starts after the summer, but also one: It is not about the dispute between the parties, it is about developing good concepts for our country, and it is finally about bringing Austria where we want to go: to the top of life quality, as a country that is the best place to live for its citizens, an Austria we can be proud of. In any case, we will make ourselves strong for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3499	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3521	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In November, when Members are praised for the new National Council, this legislative period will end. [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A good job?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Ha!]] Today, with a six-party proposal and with the approval of all the political groups, we open the way for the 15th century. ==References====External links== Klubobmann Arbitrators have asked the right question. That's why: Where is Austria now after these four years? – And I'll give Klubobmann Arbitrator law: Austria is good at it! But Austria is not where it has been, at the head of the European Union. What do I mean by that? – In case of location questions, we are naturally limping behind. A front page as we once had it, with statements like: [[keep the front page of the magazine “Star” with the title “Why Austria Is Top” in height]] What are the Austrians doing better? Less unemployed! More economic growth! Better mood! Why Austria is the top, what can they do that we can't Germans? – We don't have such front pages right now. We want us to get back such front pages. We want to bring Austria back to the top of the European Union! That is why, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, unemployment has recently fallen. But are we at the head of the European Union? – Austria is currently at 5.4 percent unemployment between Romania and Estonia, but far behind Germany, following Eurostat measurements. When I look at the refugee crisis, I have to say that this question is still not solved. A contribution to achieving an improvement was the closure of the Western Balkans route. However, the closure of the Mediterranean route is equally necessary, and we will continue to fight and continue to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or to mention a third point: We were happy when in 2003 we managed to regulate an Austrian-wide minimum guarantee. Now we have the syllabus that the number of minimum insurance providers has tripled since 2003 in Austria; a development that needs to give us thought. In Vienna, each/every other, who is in minimum security, is a foreigner. When we introduced the minimum guarantee, it was completely different, so we cannot close our eyes and say there is no need for action. There's a need for action here! We want uniform arrangements throughout Austria, based on the model of Lower Austria and Upper Austria, because the right steps have already been taken there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me make one more point. The Minister for Finance is not here today, but we had a club meeting before, and in this he strongly pointed out how the financial situation of the Republic is. Our situation is better than that of the European average, especially as well as that of the Euro countries, but 83.5 percent, this is already a debt that cannot give rise to expenditure, without thinking about its cover. Germany, compared to that, is 68 percent. Why do I say that? – On the one hand, we have achieved a great deal, even here in Parliament, often with major majority decisions. I would just like to mention this: the asylum and security package, very important, with asylum on time; the integration law, integration through performance as a premise, an important decision-making process; the Islam law, including regulations that are very necessary to ensure security in the country as well; in the field of research, an increase in the research premium from 12 to 14 percent or the investment premium for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can create 25 000 jobs. – All these are important decisions! We ourselves, the Parliament, regardless of the government, have also made great reforms. Yesterday, the second investigative committee set up in accordance with the new rules came to an end. This new regulation has proved successful. We have provided the opposition groups with an instrument which, in the last legislative period, only the government parties had in their hands. We have done something else – because the future of Austria can only be in a strong Europe, in a strong European Union – through the right of speech of our Members of the European Parliament here in the House, through their participation in the committees, to institutionalize the cooperation of the European Parliamentarians with us. - Very, very important! Now there are no more hundred days up to the National Council elections, and now it will be about the fact that at the end of this legislative period no casino mentality arises that no electoral sugar battle is opened here in the House. That is in our hands, in this sense we should act responsibly together. Yesterday, Wifo expert Schratzenstaller meant that we should do everything we can to avoid endangering the budget. She said literally: “If the legislator had decided to give expensive elections before the National Council election at the last second, the serious consequences would be” for the budget and difficult later reforms. Today, the President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Kraker, has made a similar statement. We need to be careful that a 24. September 2008 did not happen a second time. More than €4 billion resulted from the decisions taken at that time. And that was not a one-time thing, these €4 billion are still striking for the budget today. That is why my appeal to all the political groups: Let us not forget what the experts say, let us not be tempted to take decisions which will burden the next plenary session and the next direction in a form which cannot be held responsible. If we are to act responsibly at the forthcoming meetings, there will certainly be special meetings in addition to the meetings already adopted. This is our obligation to taxpayers, to voters and taxpayers! Ladies and gentlemen! We will assume our responsibility on the part of the People's Party in this regard, and I would also ask all the political groups to make more than one decision at the forthcoming meetings, which we can actually account for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3608	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3629	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and also in front of the televisions! Today's debate represents, in a sense, a historic hour – truly not a star hour of parliamentarianism, but at least a historic hour – because we are sitting here in this plenary room for the last time for a few years, can hold the meeting here before we leave the house and move around for the next years and hopefully find a newly renovated Parliament building in four years. So, of course, a certain hurt is there today. Otherwise, pain is not great when it comes to assessing that this government, which has now been a red-black government for ten years, has failed for the x-th time. Experience has shown us a lot, we have experienced a lot in the last ten years. In 2008, Molterer said: It's enough! In 2013, Faymann said: Enough disputed! Today in May we have experienced the continuation of this scenario, so to speak. In between, there has been a hundred and more restarts from the side of the red-black government. As has been said, these last ten years have been, when you remember, not a glorious leaf – and not even the last four years. This red-black coalition has once again been put down, it has once again demonstrated by standstill, by disputes and many negative decision-making processes that it is unable and unwilling to take the necessary steps that the Austrian population would expect in many areas. The opposition has now had to help as a government demolition service, the coalition must jump to the side. If the opposition in May had not been used as a government demolition service to lead this government shavary to the scrapping ground, we would not have been able to ensure this new election decision or the resolution today. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] This already shows that there is a lot of animosity in the government with those who act. Of course, this is a chance for a new beginning. In this way, there is no pain, because this is the x-th continuation of a red-black dispute and standstill development, which we have had to experience over and over again. This is a chance for a new start, and I don't mean the 150th red-black restart after the 15th. ==References====External links==* Official website October a large majority of the Austrian population will make a decision that will prevent a restart or further continuation of red-black. That is exactly what is necessary, and I say that we liberals are really the only guarantee for that! A vote for the Freedom Party is the only guarantee that: You, ladies and gentlemen, cannot, after the election, do what you did after 2008, after 2013, namely: fight, deceive, tarry and fight again after the election! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] I believe that the vast majority of the Austrian population really have no desire to do so. Of course, we cannot be proud of what has happened in recent years. Here, I say, of course, the staging has been attributed – 95 percent, we have heard, be staging – of work, of implementation, of seriousness there was little in sight. There have been internal intrigues at the ÖVP. A few weeks ago, in May, Mr Kurz came out provisionally victorious, but now he acts as if he had not been a member of the government in recent years. You have to hold on to that too. Mr Kurz has been in the government for six years. Today he is missing again, but he has participated everywhere, with all the negative decisions the principle of unanimity was in the Council of Ministers! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Lugar.]] Irresponsible Welcome Culture 2015! – At that time he did not warn, no, at that time he sat on the lap with Mrs. Merkel and participated in this development: not to secure and not to control the Austrian borders and to allow more than a million people to enter Austria illegally. There were many developments. He has also been Minister of Integration in recent years, when he has, of course, contributed decisively to the situation. We had to experience the most dramatic misdevelopments of the Second Republic in the area of integration, an integration failure, parallel and counter-companies, misdevelopments in the field of Islamic kindergartens in Vienna, 150 in the number in which Mr. Kurz voted as ÖVP Landtagsreiter brav. The ÖVP has always voted in favour of the approval of these kindergartens. Since 2015, Ednan Aslan's report has been on the table that Salafists and Islamists are mainly behind these kindergartens – and nothing has been done! There he will not be able to talk out, and there is not enough simply to paint the party on the outside wall. I say that we have already experienced this, that has been similar with the new People's Party under Wolfgang Schüssel in 1995. In the background, of course, there are chambers, functionaries, alliances and party apparatus, namely the old structures that naturally want to continue to live and be operated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there have also been intrigues at the SPÖ, just a little earlier; this has been over a year ago. At that time, Mr. Kern came through. We have heard the jubilant choirs that there is a new wuzzi, a new Messiah, when he was praised. A new style was the talk, from New Deal to Plan A. This has not really remained much after last year. You can already say: The paint's gone! This shows that even mediatically artificially written wuzzis are often brought back to the ground of reality very quickly. In fact, people expect more than artificially built wonder in the presentation, they expect implementation, they expect seriousness and also honesty in dealing with the problems. When it comes to responsibility for Austria, I say, you can read a lot from the last ten years. How has Austria developed – because it has been addressed today? . We have fallen dramatically in substantial competitive positions in recent years compared to within the European Union and internationally. That's reality. The economic location has suffered massive damage over the last ten years. We have a maximum tax and maximum tax burden, which is why, in fact, many farms have migrated and the economic location had to suffer painful losses. We had to experience unemployment, which of course was also caused by the government, precisely by such a tax and tax policy. Of course, you have to counter-tax it, but this counter-tax has not been done so far. Mr Lopatka has been here today and has said what he wants. – Well, the ÖVP has been in this government for 30 years. They have been talking about boosting the economy for 30 years and trying to relieve it. They have had the opportunity to do so for 30 years. – They have failed dramatically if we look at the development. That doesn't buy you any more, Mr. Lopatka! [[We welcome the FPÖ as well as Mr Loacker, Mr Lugar and Mr Schenk.]] Of course, it needs a trend change, and of course it also needs a credible trend turnaround when it comes to relief when it comes to tax relief. This is necessary, and of course you have to finally put on your own red-black administrative bacon. You also have to say quite openly: So please, this chamber pressure is not to be maintained in the form! This too has to be addressed. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] All these constraints in society – one must finally be prepared to take reform steps from the social partners, even to the social security institutions, where nothing has essentially happened for years. There, of course, the red and black social partners are set up accordingly not to allow anything and not to save in their own field, nor to allow administrative reform. It is precisely there, however, that it is necessary, up to subsidies and subsidies in different areas where, I say, the money is dealt with irresponsibly. Of course, other problems also arise, such as the dramatic misdevelopment due to a completely uncontrolled mass immigration, which has made red and black possible. Not the refugees who have tried to get to us for economic reasons are to blame, no, this red-black government – and there you have been the ones responsible for this development in recent years – is the cause of this development because it has allowed it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] EU external border control has failed. Since 2015, one has not been willing to control, protect and prevent and reject illegal immigrants – and you are still not ready to see the example of Brennerpere. As is already being swept around again, as well as in 2015 with the ridiculous gates with side parts! Even now it says again: We're in preparation! – No, that should have happened for a long time! There have been 30 000 illegals across the Brenner border last year. If you don't make controls, you can't pick them up either, no question! There are no figures either if you don't control the trains. We know, however, by the work of the executive officials, that every day hundreds of illegal people come across the Brenner border to Austria. Keep everything under the lid. You are not ready to finally protect and control the border there, and this shows your responsibilities! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] We have a migration into the social system that you have caused. We have 50,000 illegally detained people in Austria, for which you have the responsibility, and you are not ready to put them off at last. Nothing is done! You and all your proposals, which you are now making shortly before the election, cannot take anyone seriously anymore, because in reality you have completely failed in everything. In Vienna, immigration into the social system – which has also been correctly addressed by Mr Lopatka – means: 57% of the minimum insurance beneficiaries are non- Austrian citizens; this concerns more than 110 000 people. Incredible! Of course, asylum seekers, more than 40 000 in this breakdown, also receive illegal asylum seekers, as we hear. Incredible! Besides, there are Austrians who have worked for 40 years and then with monthly 820 €, 830 €, 840 € pension their lives must be served with a minimum guarantee of 840 €! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] This has nothing to do with fairness and justice. These are all developments, for which the government, of course, also bears responsibility. And I say, A large majority in Austria is enough! Of course, a large majority in Austria expect nothing from this red-black government. Many of them have been outraged by developments in recent years and are therefore glad to see it on 15 May. October gives the chance to finally make a choice at last – I say – so that it does not lead to a continuation of this red and black squirrel. And this very choice will also ensure the Freedom Party for the Austrians. We are the only guarantee that after the next election, if we become as strong as possible, you will not be able to go back again, not be able to stick back and not continue what you have done there again! You are the cause of many problems in Austria – you have not solved them, no, but you have created them, in part in an irresponsible way, and our children and children will have to do this once. I say: We also want to do this on 15 May. Quit October! Mr. Federal Chancellor Kern, at the end also to you, to your New Deal that you have announced, and to your Plan A! I mean, you should really get away from this pure staging you're always talking about. These empty dictionaries, these entire marketing air bubbles don't take hold. Be honest and self-reflective once! They were also at the beginning when you became chancellors and spoke of us having a forget of the future and a lack of power, but with these words, which are now constantly being cast around by the government, you do not do better, but actually confirm yourself in your criticism, which you have rightly expressed at the beginning when you took over the office. People are full of these words. They really want a very concrete implementation, very concrete proposals and very concrete measures that they can feel, because of which they are better. People don't want pseudo-capitalist struggles, don't want class struggles, don't want people talking about introducing more taxes. We already have the rich tax of over 50 percent today. People want to hear: How can tax relief be implemented? How can those who work finally be supported in such a way that they have more net of gross? People finally want more in the wallet. They have nothing of a debate of envy, nothing of it if you want to take away anything that would be completely unfair to the rich with an inheritance tax. I therefore say quite openly: An inheritance tax will not exist with us! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] People have prepared the money fairly, often with over 50 percent taxed over decades. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] You have received loans to buy small dwellings or sometime to call a small house in the country their own – and then you come and want to get back into the wallet at the end of a lifetime when a family father or a family mother dies?- Oh, my God! That must be done! Let people work and earn money and finally stop this tax and tax policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All workers and employees and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in this country must in fact take action against this red and black burden government, which it has permanently decimated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are the predators, you are the ones who beat out the leaders in this country, and you have to free them from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3823	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e3844	Ladies and gentlemen! With today's new election request, the government has also failed. I just want to lose three sentences about the failure, no more makes sense: Two government partners, who cannot succeed on both sides, but are always focused on the fact that the other has the maximum damage, cannot succeed. Two government parties who turn to surveys and then, if there is a chance that you can jump down, because you can either hold the number one or reach the number one, do this, you can't succeed. A government that stops working after two and a half years has failed. If we decide on our new request today, this is also a reason to look back at the major debates we have held in Parliament. There has been a theme that has dominated the past years: the topic of escape and migration. One has seen with a clear eye how the tone in this Parliament has become rougher. And in one point, the FPÖ is right: It represented positions, and half a year later SPÖ and ÖVP represented the same positions. SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ have slipped right in these four years. When we talk about fleeing and migration, yes, then we are talking about a radical change in politics, but not human rights policy, but rather about a radical change in politics that constitutes the cause of escape! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are the causes of escape? - War and poverty. And when we talk about war, we need to talk about weapons and arms exports. Let's talk about Saudi Arabia! Saudi Arabia is the second largest arms importer! Saudi Arabia is not only the second largest arms importer, but Saudi Arabia is the largest exporter of terrorism and Islamist hatred! Saudi Arabia has the patronship over numerous military struggles! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Who are the arms exporters to Saudi Arabia? – In the first place are the United States of America, followed by Russia – these are the friends of the liberals – and third is Europe. That's it. We wonder: We send weapons and people to come. When we talk about war and poverty or poverty in particular, we talk about EU trade policy, which is the cause of escape. An example: In Ghana there are thousands of tomato pickers, who are busy there, but they can't sell their tomatoes anymore. Why? – Because Europe is exporting approved tomatoes from Italy and Spain. And now the point comes: Who is on the European tomato fields? – tens of thousands of African refugees exploited with cheap wages. We destroy the livelihoods there and wonder that the people who live there in cardboard cover settlements in order to have a minimum level of income will then come to Europe and here a exploited existence will be here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] – This is the result of European trade policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Mrs. Lunacek!]] There is a lack of vision and strategy within the European Union – and of Austria is part of it – which needs to be changed so that the livelihoods in Africa change and people do not have to flee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If there is hunger, poverty and war on one part of the earth and wealth, stability and peace on the other, then we need not be surprised that people are coming where prosperity, stability and peace prevail. It was the founding generation of the Greens that warned 30 years ago of this prosperity gap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] No one wanted to hear that – on the contrary! The funds for development cooperation were cut short, lastly by Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz. It goes even further: He even threatens to cut further development aid to African countries. This is an absurd proposal, because there are only three countries that get one; one is Uganda, a state that has received about one million refugees. – This is plumper populism that guides people here and there behind the light. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This Minister of Foreign Affairs has not attended any single meeting of the Ministers for Development in five years, where we could have discussed all that I put to the discussion here. This is populism without solutions and answers! Let us talk about social policy and justice! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why don't you even let the fungus talk?]] Many people in this country feel that their living conditions are getting worse. [[Abg. Strache: Heast, the fungus would be better...!]] This is strange for a very simple reason: All figures show that our society is getting richer and richer. Something's wrong! If our society becomes richer and fewer and fewer people feel that this wealth is coming to them, then obviously the issue of distribution arises. If consensus is announced that what is achieved is passed on through fair wages, then we need not be surprised that fewer and fewer people feel represented by politics. Let us come to the near-to-life social policy! The rents are one of my favorite topics. We do not need to be surprised if we do not implement a rental law reform here with the Federal Government within three years. The rents rise faster than the wages, and everyone knows that can't go out. We know that if we don't do anything, we will have conditions in the Austrian cities like London, Paris or Munich, where a middle class family can no longer afford to live in the centre. [[Abg. Kickl: Or in Hamburg!]] It is unbearable that a family who earns €2,000 must spend €1,200 for living. It's not going to work! SPÖ and ÖVP have failed in this question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we have another chance! There is the possibility to change something with a free majority – if the liberals go along – in the rental law. Yes, let's move in rent-rate limits! It is about enabling people to come out in a basic need. I invite everyone to take this step together in the autumn. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there is something else: the famous tax populism when the new ÖVP – so old – has to save €12 billion with its top candidates, because it gives something. This tax populism will not go out. His proposals, how to cover all of this, do not hold an examination. Administrative reform – I have heard that for 20 years. This is nothing but the synonym for: I don't know where the money comes from. The second point is the failure of social security benefits. Every expert said: There you won't even come to 1 billion €. Behind this point is a completely different program: the envy debate of Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If someone here wants to make himself and give up €12 billion, that means nothing but that this politician announces massive social reduction for the next five years. We will not be available for that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we talk about the big issues of the future, we are talking about climate policy! This is a problem that the government and all the other parties like to push away. This concerns future generations, so you can't win a choice, you think. Some, like the FPÖ, deny climate change at all. [[Abg. Street: On the contrary! Natural climate change is a fact, what are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] That's the most absurd variant, so to speak, and your friend Donald Trump is blaming you. Climate change will not take place in the future, however, as it will only take place in its most extreme form. Climate change is now taking place: The number of heat deaths increases, the high harvest damage, you only have to ask the farmer's government, the flood damage. [[Abg. Strache: Climate change has been taking place for thousands of years!]] – Climate change is reality! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have to react now! No country has as good a condition to create the energy transition with renewable energy as Austria, but no country has such a bad climate balance as Austria. The Kyoto Protocol: All countries have managed to save on average 12 percent. Austria has an increase in harmful emissions by 2.5 percent. Austria fails in this area. Climate policy is environmental policy, not only but also labour market policy. According to a TU study, investment in renewable energy brings an increase of 60 000 jobs. Climate policy strengthens the economy! Who has the nose in the future in the case of innovative measures? Are the Austrian companies or are they not Austrian companies? [[Abg. Street:... Demigration of the Voest!]] Climate policy creates security of supply! Electricity will replace other sources of energy. Whoever now manages to ensure the power supply – and that will not be about fossil energy – has the nose at the front. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Climate policy and renewable energy are also social policies. If you don't get around, in ten, 20 years, you'll notice that fossil energy is getting more expensive. Who's gonna pay the bill? – The average consumers who hang on fossil energy because politics has failed today. However, energy and climate policy is also a policy of peace. What are the problems of war today? - Oil and gas. Therefore: Now we are entering a climate policy! It's the last day or the last year where we can make this turn. But I would like to cut something quite different: We have a very difficult generation change behind us. This is painful and has led to noise. I'm part of this generation change. And some people wonder: Is the fire still burning in the greens? – I say: Yeah, it's blatant! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4053	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4081	Madam President. Estimated government members! Dear fellow Members! We hope it burns in the right place – if it's the passion that burns, it's always good, at the roof it's less good. Of course, we wish our competitors all the best for the next few months! Dear citizens, this is the last meeting in this House! This is, of course, a historic moment before this House is revitalized at the expense of citizens. [[Abg. Kickl:... Haselsteiner pay!]] This was a decision which all six groups of the House have taken together and which I think is right. The House is the symbol of self-confident and strong democracy. Power goes from the people! Of course, everything that we spend together on taxes makes sense to be used efficiently and effectively. To decide on this use is also the task of this House, the task of the National Council, and you, valued citizens, indicate the direction in October, you will set the course. Not only is the extract from this house for three years a historic acidity in the post-war history of Austria, but much greater is the acidity that is likely to come in October. It's about to end a phase that has granted over 70 years, this red and black power cartel. Two parties, who said in 1945, after World War II, that country was in Schutt and Ash: We will rebuild this country together! I also say that we have to thank these two old-fashioned parties for the first decades too, they have done a lot right. It is always important to me to find the tone of appreciation, but also the tone of criticism for what it is appropriate for, because ÖVP and SPÖ have not been aware of by the citizens over the last two decades. They had in mind their own armchairs, their own claims of power and their grains and did not come out of this logic. We have two falling big parties in front of us, who admittedly put very attractive heads on a dying corpus, but these two old-fashioned parties will no longer be able to study this country alone. I can promise you if you strengthen ÖVP and SPÖ, then the following will happen in this Republic: Your chances will not grow, your children's opportunities in kindergartens and schools will not grow, your chance for a falling tax and tax rate will not grow and your chances at work will not grow, because we have been balancing the highest unemployment for 70 years at the beginning of the year – even if a small hope is emerging. If you strengthen the old-fashioned, shady structures, the felt will grow in this country, the patterns of structural corruption will grow in that country, and of course the party book economy will also grow; there is enough evidence for that. For example, there is a federal state in which party financing has not been increased. We have the highest in all of Europe, and it is increased by the old-time forces together with the Blues, together with the Greens everywhere, only in Vorarlberg, because there is a fresh, courageous force, namely the NEOS, who said: We don't carry this, and we'll carry it into the media if you go on like this! That's why the others said: Then we'd rather leave it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] In Vienna it was so that everyone agreed – blue, green, black, red – that after the last election in Vienna they even increased party funding, although it was already the highest in all of Austria and in Austria the highest in all of Europe. We NEOS were the only ones who said: We do not accept this Party Academy funding. – This is a pattern break in the post-war history of Europe. We're not just talking about it, we're doing the same thing! I believe that this is a direction decision, which will reorganise Austria in October. We make an offer by saying: We want your chances to grow, the opportunities of citizens! Every money bag in Austria would choose NEOS because we want to leave more money in these money bags and also have the recipes for it. Every school, if she had a right to vote, would choose NEOS. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Go, really?]] There was a vote recently among 100 school experts, educational experts and experts, who would have the greatest power for renewal in the education sector – that was in the industrial association – and in place one was chosen by the experts NEOS. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you should register as a class speaker!]] These are the offers we make. It is not the felt and not the party book economy that should grow, but the opportunities of people in freedom. They should have more freedom, so they should remain more money – and the whole with responsibility. On the subject of responsibility still: Of course, we now have the opportunity to do some things by the end of September, mid-October. I believe that we should tackle a common quality framework for kindergartens, all of us are talking about it, also – usefully put our fingers in the wound – in the Islamic kindergartens. We need a common quality framework! I think it is important to point out what I do not understand, however, that although you are always building up problems, then you are not available for a solution that you find well under four eyes, but that you forget about the children and young people and that you are only interested in party tactics. – That’s not responsible! It would be just as unresponsible to distribute election sugar in a large style, as you did in 2008 until tomorrow at 4 p.m. before the election. That's where you shot the billions with power-political calcule and with the schielling on some clientele. – This is not okay, and that is why I presented this pact for responsibility and ask you to sign it here. [[the speaker shows a document]] The Federal Chancellor has already signed, Sebastian Kurz, the new ÖVP-Obmann, has promised that he will sign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I assume that the new ÖVP-Obmann keeps his word, I've already sent him the paper, but I haven't received a signature back yet. He has given his word in the circle of all the heads of the party, and I assume that we have to rely on the word of a party leader, otherwise we have learned something. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] We will stay there – the Stronach team has also signed. Finally, there is one point: the cold progression, the sluggish tax increase. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance and the Federal Chancellor will climb over the balcony and will take with you 800 million euros this year and next year. We've got to get rid of that! I know that Minister Schelling wants to abolish the sluggish tax increase where people are getting deeper into the bag, I know that the FPÖ would be in there, I know that NEOS are in there, and I know that we have a majority with that. Finally, once again: It is irresponsible to move forward, if we have a majority in favour of real human discharge. Take a heart, take a run, jump over your shadow – for the benefit of people!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4190	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4211	The woman sits at home with her children, there is no need for them, the children need new shoes, but you can't afford them. The man comes home again, has spent the wage with alcohol and with anything else and promises the woman that he will do better next time. Many women, of course, believe that after 100. Time, after the 200. Times: Yes, he'll do better tomorrow! – Does that seem familiar to you? - That's exactly how this government operates. [[Abg. Strache: Who is the man now and who is the woman now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Look back into the past! I know many like to forget. Let's look back: ten years ago Molterer, then Pröll, then Spindelegger, then Mitterlehner and now Kurz – all have praised: Yes, this time we'll do better, now we've got it! Yes, but this time really, now we know what to do! – This is exactly the same as in my example: There the man comes home and has for the x-th time and simply always acted against the family, always against the interests of those he should actually protect, and just as this government acts. The reason you now seem to realize that was wrong is not because you actually believe it was wrong. There was also no excuse on the part of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, short or otherwise, for the €2 billion we pay every year for this refugee disaster; next year it will be €2.7 billion, then €3 billion and so on. You do not believe that this policy is wrong, quite the contrary, you even promote this policy: The Minister of the Interior has publicly stated in December 2016 that we do not need 37 500, but at least 50 000 refugees each year, because, as he says, the labour market will eventually need it. That is why the EIA does not want to change its policy. But what the ÖVP wants to change is the voters' wound. That is why you have set up a policy that seems to suggest that you at last know what to do, which is to finally work for the population, now finally to prevent people coming to Austria bringing violence and war from their homeland. That's exactly what's happening right now: These people bring these problems to Austria. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] And when the ÖVP turns up and says: There are 2 000 people, we can't control them all, that's far too complicated, much too complicated, we have to let them in!, and if they're illegal and don't have a residence permit – there's more than 100,000 in our beautiful country who live here as submarines who can't be here at all – then it says: We can't bring her back, of course we can't! - That's the problem. And if we make a request in Parliament to end all that goes wrong, what does it do in short? – He disagrees with his people. There you can see what he wants, namely the electorate. He doesn't want to work for Austria. He's pissing on it. ==References====External links== October, that's where he wants her. That's where he wants them to choose him. Then he wants them to make him the chancellor, and after the election, he won't put all of this into practice. Why not? - Because he doesn't have to! He doesn't have to, because the voters will pick him up again the next time, maybe again in three, in four or in five years, who knows. Even then they will elect him again, and if not him, then the successor, the successor of the successor. That's how it works in our Republic: If one makes politics that voters do not want, then one does not change politics, but changes the minds and tells the citizens: But now we have understood, now we do it, now it goes on! – And when everything is back as before, you exchange your head. There are still a lot of heads in the ÖVP, and these will also grow, you will see it! In the federal states the heads grow like the swams, because from there comes the power. In short, there's no power. Who believes this in here?- Oh, my God! I don't have anything at all for a moment. In short, within his party is democratically elected, and do you know who? – He is elected from the alliances and from the countries, and if he does not notice, he is selected. - That's how it works. That is, the ÖVP does not change, just because now there is a new head ahead. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] That is also the reason why nothing will change in the policy of the EIA. The EIA wants immigration, at least 50 000 a year. What if Collateral damage occurs? Yeah, what's the matter?- Oh, my God! – This is the attitude of the ÖVP. Many questions: Why don't you guys do anything in Parliament? - Now I'm giving the ball back: Dear voters! Dear TV viewer! Do you know who can actually change something in this country? [[Call the SPÖ:You!]] Do you know who can actually make us go into a good future? Do you know who can make sure that people do not come in who bring their potential for violence and their conflicts to Austria? - You're out there, you, voters! ==References== October you have this one day, a little window of time. ==References== October on, and you have the opportunity and the power, and everyone inside here trembles in front of you! Only what the ÖVP and the SPÖ have do not have that outside, namely the power over the media, about their ads, about their legal possibilities, also about the ORF. With this, SPÖ and ÖVP suggest what is good for you. If you give faith to the surveys, many believe that: Well, now it's better now! – And then you pick red and black again, and then you have the same and are eaten again and yell at us again at parliamentarians: Why don't you guys do anything?- Oh, my God! I'll give it back now. Why don't you guys do anything? Why don't you take care of it? October for new majority in this House? Why don't you make sure that there are new majorities away from red and black here? Why don't you make sure we can finally do something with parties that have to? They have to do something, or they won't be re-elected. Red and black know they don't have to do anything because they have the media. You can tell the citizens everything, and that works as we have had to experience suffering in the past. Dear citizens! That's why I'm looking for and asking you – also as a citizen – to: Don't make the same mistakes again! You've seen that government doesn't make a difference. You've seen that she doesn't want to. They have seen that this government serves its own interests and not the interests of citizens. Many fear the creation of new majority groups. Many say: Who knows, now we choose red and black again, because we know at least what we have – according to the motto: The medicine doesn't work, but I've gotten used to the side effects. That's the logic that's being followed. Many are afraid and say: Well, let's pick red and black again. But I'm telling you: If you choose something else this time and not red or black, then you have created the possibility of change. It can't be worse! I'll tell you a secret: You can't rule the worst! You can't rule worse, but you can rule much better! We should use this opportunity in the interests of Austria! Therefore, in the interest of Austria and especially in your own interest in the next election, do not choose red or black! Create new majority in Parliament! That's what Austria and we all deserve!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4281	On a point of view, Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Reported at the heart of the debate. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4302	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the House! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Seers and Seers! I would like to take the opportunity to thank all of you for your work together last year. As you know, I've been there for about 13 months, and I've had the numbers lifted this morning and looked at what we've achieved together. We have – and should not be forgotten – passed 190 laws in different majority constellations over the last 13 months, sometimes – and not so rarely – also unanimously. I think we have shown by that we have the common interest to work in the sense of the country, in the sense of its people. I think it is our most important commitment to understand that we have a task to fulfil in the service of Austria and the Austrians. We actually owe this great country that we work together and lead this country with a calm hand into a good future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have listened very attentively to my previous speakers in their discussions – of course, not always the opinion of all – but there is one point we should already discuss very carefully, namely that we all know – I have not heard from any political group today that it sees it differently – that this country needs changes, that we face new challenges, that we need new answers to these challenges, that we probably do not have the success we want with the old recipes. But we have also experienced today that there is a bit of a separation in the assessment where we stand. I listened closely to the representative of the ÖVP, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, the FPÖ representative, Mr Strache, also Mr Lugar, the clubman of the Stronach team. I think a very crucial point is that, when we speak here, we must do so in the awareness that we have a responsibility to present things precisely and correctly, since this is important. Perhaps I can tell you two, three points to which I would like to address: We have experienced a few days ago that The Boston Consulting Group – I believe that is the world's second largest business consultant, that is, not a social democratic advance organization – has issued Austria that we are the fourth most successful country in the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Have we ever heard today!]] If you look at this analysis a little more precisely, then you can see that the results are pretty impressive: We owe this to the use of the many people, the use of many individuals in this country. We owe this to the talents that the people in Austria have. We owe this to the power of companies, and we owe it to social cohesion in our country in particular. The important thing in this study is that an institution that actually only advises companies so that they can make higher profits has explicitly held: The strength of Austria is that we stand together and that in our country we take care that everyone gets a fair chance. – This is what really made us strong in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My concern is that we continue this path consistently in Austria, that we ensure that everyone benefits from the upturn, that everyone has something of prosperity in our country, and not only the 5 percent that can live on the interest rates of their assets. We must make policy for the remaining 95 percent in our country. We must make a policy that consistently strengthens the middle class in Austria. When we look at how far we have come together – many of the 190 laws that we have agreed together – we have made a clear contribution to achieving improvements in our country – this is really remarkable. I do not share the opinion of colleagues from ÖVP, FPÖ and the Stronach team, I do not want to let our Austria get hurt; I tell you what it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, of course we need these changes, but we also know where we stand. We can be proud and confident that we grew up in this country, raise our children here, and also want to spend our age here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Look You're just looking at the numbers – that's what's already happened today: The economic research institute has forecast an increase of 2.4 percent. This is not only clearly more than we thought a year ago – at the time we assumed that we are continuing to remain imitators in Austria – it is also significantly better than the eurozone section. For the first time in six years, we have been back in a situation where we are better than the rest of the euro area. And when we talk about economic growth, we are not only talking about an abstract number that should make economic researchers happy, but we are talking about the fact that this means safe jobs, more jobs and better incomes for people in Austria. – This is the important context. Let's just take out these parameters and see what's happened in the last few months. I still know too well that a year ago we were sitting together and had the impression that there will be a battle with a lot of counterwind, there will be unemployment rising, there will be no growth, the companies will not invest. What is the situation today? – You showed us the cover, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, I think it was from the “star”. The fact is that in Austria we have had 63 000 new jobs over the last 12 months. The companies were strong, the economy was strong, the creative inventive spirit of the people in Austria was strong, and the consequence was that we were much better than Germany! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Unemployment is much higher!]] If you quote unemployment, Mr Lopatka, I would suggest: Let's stick to the facts! We know that the labour supply in Germany has increased three times as fast as in Austria over the last five years. We know the demographic curve and know where we need to start. But we have to go on, we're relatively better here. If we look at the example of Germany: Investments. I think you are also an economic party, as we do, and everyone knows that you make investments, if you expect to have a positive return in the future, positive results on it. No human would invest if he didn't believe he could get something out of this investment. Let's compare ourselves with Germany: We have had 3 percent of GDP more investment in Austria last year than Germany. This means that to get to our level, the Germans need to invest €90 billion more than they do today. Only recently has a statistics on industrial output, industrial production, been published in many international newspapers: What is being created in industrial enterprises? Let's go back to the economic crisis: Austria is much better than Germany. [[Abg. Kassinger: Why do we then... Deficit and the Germans have a surplus?]] Since, where Mr Mahrer is now sitting, Reinhold Mitterlehner has stood and has proudly pointed out that last year we received 331 additional operations from abroad. – This too is a record size order. I could continue this list for any time now, but I don't want to bore you, I just wanted to point out that this staging and communication strategy – we're talking Austria bad and then explain to the people how we find the way to the light – are actually not characterized by excessive responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So if we know where we stand and have done a precise analysis, then, I believe, we also agree on the point that we need to consider how we can continue this success model in Austria. I am not only concerned about how successful the next year will be, but we need a strategy for how we can work together for the next ten or 15 years. I think there are some questions to which we can find relatively easily consensus that we have to answer them. For example, there is the question: What does technology development mean, what does automation and digitization mean for future jobs? How can we ensure that under these conditions we create attractive jobs for the people of Austria? We have to ask ourselves: Is our current education system prepared to shape the challenges of the future? What can we do to improve our position here? We must also ask ourselves – that is right, Mr Strolz: How do we manage people to keep more money in their pockets, because we know that consumption is an important point for our economy to flourish, create jobs that people can afford and build something up. We have to ask ourselves just as much – Mr. Lugar is certainly right: How do we manage to make it feel in Austria that every woman knows that she can safely come home at night at night darkness? And we have to ask ourselves the question: How do we continue to maintain our helpfulness but at the same time not overstep it? How can we protect our borders? – This too is an important question. We have presented concepts. How can we play a role in Europe that actually makes this economic area the strongest because it is based on a plural, open value model? How can we ensure access to our health system? It is one of the best in the world, and we have to make sure that this remains so and that everyone gets the opportunity to be provided here. And this is the question: How do we manage to give our seniors a safe evening of life? If we have done all this and answered these questions, it is our concern – that is the policy I stand for – to ensure security in Austria in many respects and to make a policy of which 95 percent of the people in this country who have to work hard every day benefit. This election debate – I am allowed to address it – is actually about whether we are living in a country where egoism dominates, where we insist that the one who has the strongest elbow, or in which we make cohesion and justice our guiding principles. We want to create a country where everyone can make it, and everyone can really create it! My big goal is to live in an Austria where my parents' great Austrian dream is fulfilled, namely that one day the children are better off than the parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4425	Mr Brandstetter spoke on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to comment on a question that I can also really reply authentically, namely the question raised by Mr Klubobmann Schieder, which is often addressed to him: Why is it better in the last two months, why do we carry out important projects, why do we manage to implement many of the joint government projects quickly in a very short time? I too often get this question asked. [[Abg. Kogler: Because the Brandstetter is Vice Chancellor!]] – No, no, don’t worry, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that has little to do with me, even I’m not a wuzzi of wonder. But I'll tell you one thing: I have been in politics for over three years – I was not there before – and have not lost my circle of friends and acquaintances. I talk a lot to people who tell me what matters, and I listen to them well. If you listen to people, then you will find that people here in this country, above all, want one, namely what the Federal Chancellor has rightly stressed: Cooperation, the common pre-separation, and doing what we have done in the last two months on the basis – as I believe I can say – of mutual personal appreciation of the German Chancellor and myself, and of the awareness of responsibility towards our country. We have put the separator behind and managed to confirm from this point of view – I can tell you that – that far behind us, what has always been called, above all, the smell of clientele and interest policy on the part of the opposition parties. Yes, we did, otherwise we would not have agreed on the reform of education, on the primary supply law, on the rate of women in the supervisory councils of large companies. We would not have managed to get two important legislative projects on rail, namely the reform of the law on private foundations and the security package. As Mr Bundeskanzler rightly pointed out: Security is an important issue. I am glad that we have been able to address these issues with all openness and transparency – it is also important to me that we discuss them very openly and in detail within the framework of a long review – and that we have managed to find consensus here in the last place; Consensus that's so important. I tell the people who ask me, but something else, I also tell them honestly: Yeah, it's right that we didn't get as far as we'd like to come. You have to say that for the sake of honesty. Yes, Mr Klubobmann Steinhauser, you are right, I too would have liked to have done something more in the area of rental law than the thermal control, yes, we have not been able to fully fulfil our programmes. You have to say that, too, self-critically. That has many reasons. You must not forget: I've only been in politics for three and a half years, but I'm one of those, I think, just four government members of the original government team, who are still in their original role. All others have changed at least the function, changed the place of business or even changed the activity. You have to see that too. I don't want to apologise for that now, not at all, but you have to say it for the sake of honesty: Of course, it is difficult for more than half of the team to be exchanged in a football team during the running game; the game flow is suffering. At some point, we just developed too little team spirit, and I can only hope that this will be better under a new government in the future. That's what I honestly say to people: Yeah, we haven't exhausted our potential. For some time in the decision-making processes within the government, we also did not have optimal structures, that is to say quite honestly. There was much too much effort, there was not much as one imagines. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] – Yes, you can evaluate it as you like. I honestly say what it is, I tell people: Yes, there would be better, even in the field, there is really time for something new. Finally, however, we have managed, and we have managed to do so because we have put the common, as the Federal Chancellor has already stressed, in the interests of the country and in the sense of the responsibility we feel towards the citizens of that country. Let me just tell you something: Only recently did I have a conversation with one of my creatives on the Pendler route in the Waldviertel, who by the way are very pleased that we can now better protect the creatives by means of a corresponding law; this protects them better against attacks of violent nature, which unfortunately happen more and more often. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach]] He told me the following: What I don't understand in your politicians is why you are so aggressive about each other and at the same time stressing the need to fight radicalization! I don't understand! I think that's a very smart man, that's a very smart thought. [[Abg. Lugar: That's where the government has to get by the nose!]] I would also like to spread these thoughts in this way, because in a year like this, in which we also remember the tragic events surrounding the Palace of Justice in 1927, it is important to become aware of the need to seek common, consensus and, as far as possible, prevent excessive aggression and radicalization from being irreconcilable to each other and then to make exactly what we can do only if we put common, consensus in the foreground. We have achieved this last, and I also expressly thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for this good cooperation. This is also exactly what the party chairman of the ÖVP Sebastian Kurz wanted here as a representative of the government party. That is exactly what I have been happy to do, and I think we are not quite at the end, and some projects should still be implemented. I'm convinced: In that spirit that we could last develop, we will still be able to do that. We are still doing some things, that is what the population rightly demands of us. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4563	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4584	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Government members! High house! I was now slightly nervous, I admit it, and a little excited whether the tasteless comparison of you, Mr. Lugar, whether the words of Mr. Strache – he is not there as always – and also whether the relativizations of you, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, and the small talk of the common successes just the last two weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if we don't, on 11th. Januarys with Plan A by Christian Kern had begun to lead this country to a future with ideas and opportunities that you might not have imagined to this day, then older workers today would not have the opportunity, for example, to get a job, a meaningful job and a sense of self-esteem through the “Action 20,000”. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] I brought two examples: On the one hand, a 53-year-old woman from the municipality of Trumau in the district of Baden has received a job for the “Action 20,000”. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Was that...? By the way, we have learned that the AMS is a precursor organization...!]] Yesterday I was in Salzburg, also the Pongau is a model region for the “Action 20,000”, and there a 58-year-old woman found a job in the women’s consulting facility Kokon. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Schnabl was there too!]] And if you look at the faces of these women, if you see how happy they are and how meaningful they experience it, you wouldn't talk like you did in the last few minutes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I think it is important to also tell you what measures have been taken in the last few weeks and months, because you have told us things that you have not yet been responsible for, but in part you have even voted in favour, and I thank you for that. On the one hand: Every woman in that country, for her age group, can expect a good health system for her children. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Does she get it? Between waiting and getting is already a difference!]] We have it – and it is about women with disabilities as well as older women who need optimal health care. With primary care, we will manage in the next few years that the paths that women cannot take because they do not have a car at their disposal fail to ensure that they are multi-professional and well-serviced in rural regions on site. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that 80 percent of the caregivers are female, and it was not to be seen – fortunately successful in changing that – that it is not possible for someone to have a building savings contract, a savings book, a small dwelling, need care and come to a home to keep this acquired small property; no, it was taken away. With the abolition of the care rule, we have assumed responsibility, and in part you have voted in favour. - Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, many women in this country have also signed well-belief credits, have thought that the relationship lasts forever, and if then a separation or divorce occurs, private bankruptcy is filed, then it was usually the women who did not get a second chance because the debt did not and did not want to end. – No, don’t pay seven years, pay five years; and no, no more 10 percent a lifetime! This will greatly help and support women in this country. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Moser.]] In conclusion: It's incredibly important: The more all day schools in restricted form we have in this country, the less anxiety mothers and fathers will have that they can no longer afford to be able to pay for them. They will be well cared for by their children, with sports clubs, with music clubs, in all-day limited schools. And it is not only about schoolchildren, it is to be offered that parents can give their children in good facilities from the first year of life. – These are the things, Mr Vice-Chancellor, which are still on the agenda that we still want to achieve, as well as an inclusion package and, and, Let's do it in the next few weeks, then we can do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4689	Mrs. Dr. tiny has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4711	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, since the beginning of the legislative period, we have had in every plenary motions that members of the Federal Government should resign or that new elections should finally come. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Kogler: That would have been justified!]] This, of course, has also made it difficult for in-depth work not only with the coalition partner, but also here in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] I therefore do not understand the excitement of the opposition, because you wanted new elections, and today it is so far. [[Abg. Schimanek: We have you...!]] Not only did these permanent claims for resolution of the opposition make the work more difficult, but at the latest since the Federal Chancellor presented the Plan A, I personally knew that the coalition partner also wanted to go in new elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Vice chancellor Mitterlehner has tried to reach an agreement with the Government Convention – it was probably too late. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Nevertheless, we have taken important decisions, also implemented parts of the government programme – Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned it – but have also put in place the safety package at the right time, but also put in place measures for the economy: the research premium, the investment promotion packages, the start-up package and the employment bonus. Of course, I was very disappointed about the type of university funding that money is pumped into the system without strategy, although it was exactly different in Plan A. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Walter Rosenkranz]] Every businessman really touches his head and asks why you did that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I hope that the voice of reason will prevail in this House in the future, because we all know that the purchase of votes through rapid shots in Parliament did not do anything in 2008, except that the backpack has grown for our citizens, our taxpayers and taxpayers. From the point of view of the economy, I am still glad that we have to end this difficult compromise policy at our site, at the expense of the companies and ultimately also at the expense of the employees. However, I was afraid that the Greens and the FPÖ also wanted to do nothing to improve the situation of SMEs. [[Abg. Schimanek: Please go, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We have seen this at the one-stop shop and also in the simplified operating system approval process. – These would have been real debureaucratisation steps for SMEs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The country does not need a policy with retrospect or, as Einstein just said: “You can never solve problems with the same way of thinking they have created.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] It also doesn't work in a farm that you achieve other results with the same strategy. Therefore, right now, in a time of change, it takes a new style, new ways. The people want to know the truth, they want policy solutions away from populism and staging, and above all they want respect and appreciation for the opposite. We have a clear idea of how we can make Austria better and more likely for all citizens. With Sebastian Kurz and our open new People's Party, we will also do this, so that your dream, Mr. Federal Chancellor, will be fulfilled, that the children will once better than the parents. [[Abg. Kassinger: Where is he, Sebastian? He's not present today!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4857	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e4879	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up the last sentence in order to clarify some differences: Of course, this will be signed by everyone that children should be better off than the generation that so to speak produces these children. However, we have to ask ourselves very slowly the question of which children we will still be talking about in this country if immigration policy continues as you do – certainly not from the Austrians. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Children are children!]] I thought in stages today at the speeches of my previous speakers, the club members, the government members, I'm in a satire event. There is a lot of real small art price suspicion, which has been commanded today. Unbelievable, incredible! The man from the country, that is, Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is always talking to the people when he is on the train, will be used to the sentence that a swallow does not make a summer for a long time. You should know that as an old man from the country. And that's exactly how it is. It's not going to be that way. You really believe that you can sell a few decisions that at the end of a legislative period more or less, than serious and solid governance – and then you can still make yourself here, as the Federal Chancellor did, with a single plea: [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] Actually, everything is quite good, let's go as far as we used to! That was the core of the message – and otherwise I only heard questions from him. The man, I think, has still not understood that it is the essence of government work to do something here. He is the supplier – but not for pizzas, but for solutions. He has to care for that, and he has remained essentially guilty to this day. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] When I say, Unsuitable for the challenges of the present and the future; outside house, inside puddle, a beautiful facade, but somehow a very coming core!, then I am not talking about this Parliament building from 1883, but then I am talking about you behind me, ladies and gentlemen, in this red-black constellation. That is the caricature of a federal government and nothing, which is also in a position to solve the problems in this country for the future. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] You should not let incense rise here and so to speak play something wrong for the people once again, you should actually go with lowered head and with ashes on the head there left and right: Goodbye and see you again! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That would actually be the greeting of saying goodbye to you: By the way, on this government bank! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Let's take a look at the stages of your government – while you have to be careful when you use the word governing in connection with you, that you do not put yourself on the suspicion that you may want to ridicule democracy there – let's take a look at what you call government! What was the first phase? – Sleep everything you can only sleep; all the international threat scenarios – sleep everything, sleep everything, talk well! It is a disaster of misjudicial decisions, one after the other, especially in the whole question of immigration: You have not yet heard that an asylumist is something quite different from a refugee and this is something else than an economic migration. You haven't heard all this yet, and that's why you're doing it. It goes on this way – a disastrous misjudgment after another, which we today face in all areas. But foreign policy has its links to education policy, it has its links into the health system, which cannot carry these burdens anymore, it has links into the housing market, it has links to security issues, and so on. That's a key that locks many locks. As long as But you do not understand this fundamental mistake that asylum is equal to fleeing and that in turn with immigration, it will continue to go downhill with this country, no matter what you are doing on beautiful redundancies up there. As far as you're not yet, I think it's gonna have to go to the country for another five years until you're going to chase behind the liberals, except we'll help you in the government on the jumps. That's, I think, what you understand, the tube rod, that's what you need, so that what you've announced will also be implemented. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] They're backslids! The danger that what you announce here will not survive the day of election is huge; we have all experienced it several times – huge risk of relapse, and therefore you have to take it to the kandare, otherwise that will not happen. You have to put someone to you who tells you that these promises are also to be fulfilled – only then there will be a change and a renewal in this country. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] They're anything but a guarantee for it. They are a guarantee for what has failed several times, and whoever has listened to the chancellor exactly, he has heard today that this is the case. First phase – I'm far from finished –: Islam, please, you rolled out the red-black carpet. At Mr Kurz I had been afraid for some time that he was converting as a sign of successful integration, much did not miss any more. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] And that's how it goes: Laws have put you out of power, but every chicken thief you follow; and if you drive too fast by car, then you burn. In connection with this immigration machinery, which you have operated there, you have suspended all the laws. And all of you have remained guilty of the reforms. – This is the first phase. Then it went down with the survey values, and then you started the second phase: The second phase is essentially that you have unpacked a brush. The ÖVP has turned over turquoise, and I am quite sure that the reds would have seized Rosarot if the color had not already been occupied; they would certainly have also painted themselves, just to show a new appearance. [[Rejoicing and applause at the FPÖ]] And then you exchanged the heads at the top – with: These heads aren't new either. One was the chief pilot of the Geil-o-Mobil; we must not forget that he has been socialized in the Young People's Party and is today, as it were, the leader of this Buberlpartie 2.0. - That's the one. It's not new! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] And the other is the one who has been socialized in the VSstÖ, in the Association of Socialist Students – that is where you, I think, eat with hammer and sickle at lunch. That's the other one. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ and with representatives of the Stronach team.]] But this is not new, ladies and gentlemen, not new at all! Then you did something else in the second phase – we talked about it briefly –: They changed roles; then the government suddenly pretended to be the opposition. So: We set ourselves up and ask for the other – up to the landscape garden; today, by Mr Schieder, also a caricatureist contribution – a demand for the other, which is addressed to no one other than to you. So you seem to have forgotten or suppressed that government means supply and implementation, and that the opposition – there are also opposition parties in this Parliament – is the one who can make demands on you. – That’s how it looks, so a democracy works! But they do not even hear these elementary components. There's no wonder that there's nothing going on in this country at all. Therefore, you should have made deliveries, ladies and gentlemen, but not one demand package after another. I'm surprised that today's kei-nes has been presented. White Christmas on 24th would be, for example, something or loud one in the testimony to the Enkerl – a good idea! This could be the next package of the Federal Chancellor. Wonderful! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Today we have not had anything; I am already excited, which is why tomorrow. In any case, what you have presented here is a fatal role exchange and the opposite of government, namely a cartoon of it. That's why you can't be surprised either. I believe that you are simply not a word anymore. I don't think any more of what comes from behind in this constellation. [[pointing to the Intergovernmental Bank]] [[Abg. Kogler: That doesn't really surprise us!]] ==References====External links== October such an important day. This is a lot day for the farmers in the ÖVP: As it will be, it will continue over the next few years. There is only a dangerous threat for this country, and that is that after this election we wake up again with red-black or black-red, and that is not drawn to the hair, but it is worked on in the back rooms of this Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] The chancellor was already treacherously open: Actually, everything is very good, we worked well together anyway, it works. – So red-black ante portas! That's how it looks in the run-up to this 15. October, ladies and gentlemen! And this is the most dangerous threat to the Austrians. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] We've had that twice, but a third time certainly not anymore! How stupid do you think people think you don't think that's going to be through?- Oh, my God! That's what we heard from red and black: ‘Disputed in a generous way.’ Faymann's gone, the fight's gone. “It’s enough!” – The Molterer was gone, red-black remained. And so on and so on. And now you think the reproach goes in for the third time. – Certainly not! I can tell you that. Anyone who has been watching in the internal debates of the last few weeks and months will notice one thing: Neither SPÖ nor the new Turks have been able to get through to the sentence that there will be no red-black reissue. Why not? Why not, dear Ladies and gentlemen? Today, in this parliamentary session, where you certainly have many spectators, you would have the opportunity. Imagine yourself and say: We're not going to do that to the Austrians anymore! Hand to the heart, put yourself down and say: There will be no reissue! – You don’t! They simply don't do it. They don't do it. And why don't you do it? – Because You will lead exactly this constellation and the next suffocation as before in the shield. And this is the most dangerous threat to the Austrians – with all the social injustices, domestic discrimination and all that you actually do under this cover. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] And that's why: There is only one guarantee to be able to break through that, and that is a strong Freedom Party in the elections. October. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau! That's right!]] That's the only way! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] We have already told you the topics that you have been mainly on the road as plagiators in recent months. We don't care, but we also show you how to implement it. We will be happy to show you this, and we will help you. [[Interference of Federal Minister Stöger.]] You should be a little less proud of the fact that you've made writings now! You know, the moon in the night sky doesn't shine from itself, either, if you've come to the idea. It shines because the sun shines on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] It's similar with the subject-clau you've been doing for months. So there is only one possibility: The Freedom Party must become as strong as possible so that you do not pass us anymore. We have told you the topics, the next thing we will show you how to govern in this country in favour of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5071	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5092	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mein Ladies and gentlemen here and perhaps also at home! No question: ==References== October there must be new majorities, new majorities for the cohesion of Austrian society beyond attempts to split. That is what we stand for, and we stand for it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Was this addressed to the Peter Pilz?]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, it was the talk of it going uphill. They say: Growth, economic growth. Mr. Kickl, now was the talk about it going downhill. – Yes, this government has failed one, just because of the difficulties of the plane. Unfortunately, they have been kneeling in the face of the difficulties of the plane. You have not managed to implement your own government program. They did not manage to implement this “For Austria” programme in the second run of the January. Now sit here and say: Yes, cohesion is important to us. – No question! Cohesion was important to you, and it is important to us when it comes to social matters. Just, you're not doing anything for this cohesion! You see, if we get income reports from the Court of Auditors, which clearly show that the income situation in Austria is completely different. This has not happened since yesterday, nor since yesterday, nor since last year. No, since 1990, we have this development, and you just look at it and talk about cohesion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need the question of justice at the heart of our political debate. Everyone has the historical or perhaps read knowledge that the political question is always a question of distribution. There are different omens, but it's always about distribution. I am very much in favour of just distributing the fact that the increase is actually being given to those who work for it. I am against the fact that there are these increases in income without work. It is only if we want to do something about that that, unfortunately, there are majority voting in this Parliament who prevent us from finally addressing the question of justice. Mr Vice-Chancellor or probably, in particular, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, please note: We're tied up with clientele interests. Client interests govern this house, rule partly in the parties and damage the country! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you are right: People want us to move on. People want children and grandchildren to be better. The problem, however, is that people notice daily that a certain clientele can just sort of judge it – no matter where, you only need to go in the community at the doorstep. It's an outrage to the people, and they'll do it on 15 May. I am sure that it will also be possible to make a statement on the part of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I can illustrate the attempt of commonness by a wonderful example: You all know, the Court of Auditors is an institution of this House. Let us act objectively, because you know that Greens have a policy on matters. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Sure! Look She's here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have always seen to it that there are two-thirds of the majority, that is political cohesion on important and crucial issues, whether in education policy, or in care policy, or in justice policy. I only remember the National Bank privileges: We held our heads so we could change a little bit for the better. - Really! I would like to return to our expert level, to the Court of Auditors: The Court of Auditors makes recommendations over and over again. My dear colleagues – Mr Mayer; Mr Gahr is not here, he must somehow secure the mandate in Tyrol; [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] Mr. Zanger often goes to his club; Our colleague, Mr. Donk, is thank God here; Unfortunately, Mr Gamon is not here – and I am really trying to live true parliamentaryism by, thanks to Mr Mayer's initiative, trying to put proposals developed by the Court of Auditors, so to speak, at a common level. We have struggled to implement three projects, which are actually something simple – Mrs Tamandl, also in the sense of budgetary truth – and finally a decision. These three proposals will be tabled today as joint proposals for initiative, and they have been jointly developed. Mr Bundeskanzler, please be careful, because this is a question of cohesion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The names Claudia Gamon, Martina Schenk and Gabriela Moser stand for these joint applications today. You see, the women work together. However, the men have developed it, but they no longer trust to stand on the request. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] Col. Zanger – all of this is visually visible! – has been pushed through, he doesn't trust himself. The FPÖ has somehow disappeared. I am now referring to what ambiguities we want from the Court of Auditors, which are simple elements of a consensus on improving parliamentary control. The first: We want legal professional representations to be examined and the audit results published as well. They're already being checked, but they won't be published. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's quite logical why we want this: If the ministries have to take note of the publication of their test reports on the Internet, why not also the Chamber of Labour or that – what does that mean? – Industrial associations, the Chamber of Commerce or whatever? - No, excuse me, the Chamber of Commerce! [[Cheerfulness of Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] This is a representative of interest. Second example, this can be done wonderfully: Reduction of the period of opinion in the case of audits of the Court of Auditors. This is a matter for the Court of Auditors, there is consensus. The gentlemen in the Court of Auditors are also in favour of this, only: You must not go to the request – people, Members who always appear for common things. That is the custom in this Parliament! I've often talked to individuals in private. It's wonderful. Privately, you quickly arrive at a denominator in the sense of the state gannet and the Republic. Privately, this is not a problem, but woe, it comes to the vote in Parliament! Woe! – Then you are immediately subjected to the party opinion or the club force. That's exactly what I'm talking about, these are the shackles of client policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] So we want to shorten the deadline for the Court of Auditors' audits, on the basis of a proposal from the Court of Auditors. Who stands up for this? – The three ladies mentioned, the gentlemen are already behind the pack and hide. On the last request: To clarify the obligation to provide information to the Court of Auditors. All we want is for the Court of Auditors to be given all the documents at the time of the examination and for the truth to be told to them. That's what we want. Who can be removed? – Wolfgang Zanger. Who's not on it? – Mr Gahr and Mr Mayer. – This is how cohesion in Parliament runs at a very simple, objective level! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If nothing changes, what's the whole game? I mean, if such simplicity – I am now deliberately saying simplicity – is not possible from common accords parliamentaryly, then something is lazy in the state of Austria! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] - Excuse me. You're this cutback, but I can't express it differently. Every normal person is attacking the brain – I am now deliberately saying brain – when I tell him these examples. But they are political reality, and there is no question of more cohesion and anything possible. I am very much in favour of doing so, and I would also like to work for it in the future. The only problem is that this cohesion fails in client interests, and we must do so on 15 May. Give a very clear rejection on October! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5227	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5248	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Moser did it right: The government has not even managed to implement its own government programme. They have not even managed to implement this supplement from the January of this year. There you can ask yourself: How's that going? You have extra extended the legislative period so that you can work a little longer free of election! – At the beginning, however, it was necessary to take into account the country elections in Styria; then one had to take into account the country elections in Upper Austria and Vienna. After taking a lot of account, including the Federal Presidential election, one has come up with it, one has nothing to say to each other. - And that's why nothing goes on. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: – Of course, this fear cannot be rejected. September 2008 is a mirage example of how parliamentarism can be expropriated if it is made bad. Just listening to such calls from the ÖVP Group is strange, but especially when we think back to the 14 days ago session: ==References== One day on June 4 billion € were thrown out, 2 billion of them for the employment bonus that this group wanted. This is also an example of client policy mentioned by Mr Moser. It was a question of serving companies, the industry with an employment bonus, which does not create a single job. This bonus is a purely take-away effect, with which you throw a bit of money to the big industrial companies in a bureaucratic way. The only jobs thus secured are those in the Austrian Economic Service, which belongs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Therefore, it was okay to deal with the “Action 20,000” that belongs to the Social Ministry. That's the only thing you can do, that's the only thing red and black can do: Exchange things, abdicate them, and take them up against each other. This is this client policy, which Mr Moser rightly criticised. What we would need would be the change that several have already called for: We need to get away from this red-black proporz system. We also need a kind of super-election Sunday, on which one day at the federal, state and municipal level is elected. Then you don't have to do the work taking into account that an important federal country is choosing – we don't want to cross the head of state or the head of state XY! –, push it. Then you could really work heartily and probably also work full in a four-year legislative period. One should not have extended to five years, which one does not hold anyway, because one has nothing to say. To return to the question of whether there should be an October meeting or not: The Members have been elected here, and they are also paid. I can't say that we're not meeting in October, but we're taking the salary. – There is something to be done for the money too! My group appeals to the responsibility of all those who go far beyond the electoral day not to blow up money that the next generations will have to pay back expensively!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5291	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5312	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision to carry out premature re-elections is absolutely right. It is not about the wishes of the mandaters, it is about the wishes of the people. What do the people want? – People want to finally work instead of fighting. People want the promises of the government to be respected, and people want social peace. I'll tell you: People deserve better! For this reason, new elections are absolutely the right step. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as an opposition politician, one is always inclined to practice only criticism, just to put the negative in the foreground. However, I would like to draw attention to the strengths of our country today. We live in a wonderful country, in a country with an eerie variety: Variety in the landscape – mountains, streams, lakes, rivers, glaciers and wine-growing regions – as well as cultural diversity, from customs to high culture. Ladies and gentlemen, the hard work of many generations has made it possible for us to live in such a beautiful country today. This zeal and prosperity are also a task for all of us to ensure that it is still so beautiful. But we also live in a country where there are people who are willing to bring in more people who live voluntaryly in various clubs, in sports clubs, in cultural clubs, in the voluntary fire brigade, in many groups. Today, too, the time to thank them for their great commitment, which they have shown in spite of all the obstacles that politics has brought. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not natural for people to engage in their free time, besides the profession and family, for the general public, for example as a member of the voluntary fire brigade, when the siren cry, no matter at any time of day or night. – A very warm thank you! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In a few months we will have a new federal government in Austria. I expect from this federal government work before staging, planning before planlessness – keyword teacher lack, keyword medical deficiency – fairness before privileges. Privileges must belong to the past! We live in a beautiful country, and so that this remains the same for the next generations, tasks are to be solved, such as: Strengthen economic location, reduce tax rates, reduce additional labour costs, create social justice, secure pensions and, and, All these are great tasks, but they are feasible if the political will exists. For the next legislative period, I would therefore like to see a government that has the will to implement something for the country that puts work before staging, then it will succeed. In this sense: Happy for the future, lucky for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5375	Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5397	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! And above all, my dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the television screens! In a few minutes, we will decide on a six-party request for the resolution of the National Council, and on the occasion of such a decision, you will personally - or I do not know how you are dealing with this issue - take a look back and look at it: What has been successful in the last four years? Where are the major topics for the future? It is not always to be said that everything is bad and it is bad, and I believe that I want to deal with the social state in particular, that we have achieved a great deal in the social field, that we have decided very much in the positive sense and that many points from Plan A have yet to be implemented. I recall the social legislation on people with disabilities, people with disabilities, the constant fight against wage and social dumping, by which employees are under-paid, exploited, and serious companies are handed over to unfair competition. I recall the “Action 20,000” by giving over the next two years the people affected by it, who hardly have a chance to get a job with 50 plus a job, a chance to regain value and self-confidence. Certainly unique was the decision taken here in the House unanimously to make the pension for home victims, by which those people who have been abused as children in homes receive a small recognition. Finally, at the last meeting, the abolition of the care rule was also decided, so that in the future the countries will no longer be allowed to access savings, what they have created, when people who have nothing to do with it have to claim care in a home. I would like to thank all the social speakers for the success of this, as did our Social Minister Alois Stöger, who has done great work with his entire team and his experts in the ministry, and ultimately also with all club experts in all the clubs that have accompanied us here so that we could achieve this. We have done a lot of good about social policy over the last four years, and we can all be proud of it. That's why I'm so upset when it's said from this point of view that Austria is a scrapyard. I think it crazyly levelless, I think it is the lowest drawer when Austria and all those people who work in this country who pay taxes here, get the message from this point of view from Mr. Strache, Austria is in a scrapyard. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who said that? That's not true! Listen carefully once!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, this government is it! It's this government! You have to listen more sensitively! You can read that in the minutes!]] If you also claim from this point of view that we want to introduce an inheritance tax, through which we want to use the small house that someone has built, then a small house seems to start at € 1 million. This, too, does not correspond to the facts. These are false facts that you convey to people, and that is simply not okay and not fair. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, that's true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have also spoken of those people who need minimum security. And yes, an Austrian-wide uniform solution to the need-oriented minimum security would be good. Our Minister for Social Affairs has repeatedly put forward proposals in this regard. What will happen to us, the SPÖ, but not to us, is that you pass over here with a lawn mower method and shorten these people's achievements. There won't be any of that with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will also not be with us this goal of spending brakes, namely in those areas where we should take away something from those people who have worked for decades, such as a worker who loses work after 40 years of hard work, fights for a pension and no longer receives a job, or a single mother who is part-time employed. We will not be able to access it and reduce the minimum level of security for these people. I also find it levelless, in times when the economy is growing, where more companies are developing in this country where there is record employment and unemployment is falling, to order a study to find out where people can be taken away like something. This is not serious and it will not exist with us, the SPÖ. I do not want to compare myself with Germany, although many here in the House do. Germany is not a model when it comes to forging Hartz IV plans. Germany is not a model for us when it comes to allowing flexible working hours as legislators, in which the people who work are drawn the money out of the wallets. This too will not exist with us, the SPÖ – not before the 15th century. October and not after that. In conclusion: Austria is well on the go. We live in a wonderful country – I thank you for these words with my colleague Dietrich. Austria has a great social cohesion to hold – instead of dividing people apart. And I hope and wish from the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the television screens that they will not let themselves be scattered into the eyes by populism, fear and inhumanity in the campaign. Austria is well on the go with Christian Kern at the top, and he should also be after the 15. Stay October. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5473	I believe that this House's long-serving Member, Mr Auer, has come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5497	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the government and in the plenary! Appreciate listeners! Mr President, I will still be here for a while, even if I am the long-standing parliamentarian. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Muchitsch that Austria is basically a very positive country with excellent social security. That's not a question at all. But sometimes there should be improvements and must not be kept silent; that is undisputed. And there I have to take my clubman Lopatka a little in protection, because he said: “Austria stands well.” – He literally said it: “Austria stands well,” and it could be even better. And if Mr Muchich points out that Hartz IV is not an example for Austria and is not recommended, then he is right to do so. But one thing you forgot, colleague Muchich: Hartz IV has introduced a SPD government in Germany! We should not forget that! – So much for the political truth. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would like to take as many of my previous speakers the decision today to look back a little bit, perhaps a little bit into the future, but it will certainly not be my last speech. In my time as a parliamentarian, I have experienced about 119 ministers – I have once counted it. 119 Ministers! – Josef Cap smiles, he knows, he does the same. He will still be here a little bit – and I would particularly like you to be present in the next legislative period, because it is important to have experienced parliamentarians in this House, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have experienced a number of promises in this house. The Greens came into the house in 1987 and told us at that time that it will be revolutionized every two years, so changed. [[Abg. Kogler: Revolved...!]] – Yes, you've been rebelling more often, that's true. – Then came new statements, namely: No, a Member of the Green Group can only sit here for a maximum of two legislative periods, because there must be a generation change here. - All the real estate, because: Mr Pilz is going to start again, even though he promised to do so at the time, after two periods has ended and must end with the Greens. [[Abg. Pilz: I'll join you!]] - No, later! Later! You look older, too. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Little surprising is the fact that, of course, I am also dealing with those areas in which there has been compromise in Parliament, negotiation results that have been important and crucial for both sides, and especially for the citizens concerned. We have been able to achieve success in the last government agreement. At the time, my negotiating partner was Social Minister Hundstorfer, to whom I still have the highest respect and who was really a congenial, a very fair and competent negotiating partner. I would also like to express my thanks again from this point of view. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was important for us both to make a fair offer for both sides, to make a fair agreement and to decide on it, and this ultimately succeeded. And since Maria Fekter was the Minister of Finance at the time, she was also mentioned in a positive sense. It has offered very fair solutions in many areas, especially in relation to agriculture, to farmers – a group that is not always the lightest. Ladies and gentlemen! The tax reform, a decisive decision of this government – how has it been criticized! How was this one seen? –, was shown negatively until the groundless was mispronounced, and in the meantime we know that the successes have come to an end. But you experience that again and again! There are only a number of government declarations, budget speeches, budget debates and so on, including in recent years. You don't have to go back as far as I am here in the house, because it's always like this: The government praises them, the opposition defies them. – The fact was and is that the results in recent years, one would almost say, for a decade, were always better than was feared by the opposition. The government was clearly on the safe side with the forecasts. That's what I said. We are now going into new elections, and elections should not be an accident in a democracy. In many countries of the world, it would be a pleasure today if there could be democratic, free elections there as in Austria at all. [[Abg. Kogler: You're right!]] We should be proud of that. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] Of course, there are tensions, struggles, very often also interruptions – yes, I regret that. As a long-standing parliamentarian, I have a single request – and I appeal to everyone, to their own group as well as to the opposition, no matter what group: One should also think of tomorrow in the face of all the hardships, namely, the 16th century. October, because afterwards it is necessary to work again, in the sense of the Austrians. Mr Strolz has rightly pointed out today that this is the last meeting in the so-called House, and unfortunately we must say: We have not always behaved as this House should and should. Maybe we should think about it sometimes. And above all, because he was referring to the Pact of Reason, we should also think of the statements of the President of the Court of Auditors, the Wifo expert Schratzenstaller and many other budget experts, in which they have made it clear that such things as at the time, 2008 should no longer happen. I think we should take these warnings and instructions seriously, otherwise there will be savings packages and savings, measures as we already know them, and we should avoid that. We should go into an open, fair debate, and therefore again my appeal: With all the strong formulations that will always exist in election struggles and competitions, my request is to remember that it must be possible afterwards to maintain the basis for discussion. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5598	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Mr President, you have been registered for 5 minutes, but there are only 3 minutes left of your group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5619	Mr President. In one I can join immediately to the remarks of my previous speaker Jakob Aueran, also as an opposition member: Yes, if you look at the situation on the globe as a whole, you can see that it is not only natural that you can and should be elected, but it is still possible for a minority of the world's population at all. That is why we should be aware of this and also appreciate the work of Members more among themselves – if you have meant it that way. We Greens already feel very committed to these next discussions – I am now only talking about the future – in which it is, of course, a matter of course. whether the much quoted but less and less lived Cohesion is a success, or it is a matter of priority for cohesiveness. With all mutual appreciation, I often feel that the situation is the same. And there. Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurzja is not a Member, I do not have to include him in this prayer from before, because I really have a different impression. This is now about the European question – he is even the Minister of Europe – about the question of the defence of the social state, about a fair and reasonable tax policy, about a reasonable and fair trade policy, and already about preventing the rowing back and declination in a reasonable and progressive environmental policy. All of this is already in danger. And see, this danger is also going – let's get out of the FPÖ! – especially from the ÖVP. You have overthinked your party headquarters, your foot troops turquoise, but this does not prevent you from becoming ever clearer that you want to make blue politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Rejoicing as well as calls and calls between FPÖ and ÖVP MPs.]] This is a sober statement. But to the many, many Christian-socially motivated people, who are there in Austria, we offer an offer for the next years and for the next legislative period. As far as the Europe question already mentioned is concerned, in my view, there is no longer any responsibility for how the EIAs are dealing here. It has actually resigned as a European party. At the European level, too, the question of fiscal justice and the defence of the social state is becoming the first question, while the Foreign Minister is going to come and abuse Union policy – read through his arguments: these are Brexit advocates, which he constantly brings; with whom he gets into the debate! That's why we have an order here. The whole thing continues in tax policy. I also think that it is unacceptable for you to act as if the planned or, by a number of political groups, planned taxation of millions of heirs and fund billionaires would be something of an anti-social nature, which concerns small house builders. So that's really the last one! They simply want to cover the fact that the ÖVP has long since become a social refrigerator party. But we're going to have this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5682	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5704	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I agree with all those who have said here today in this debate that our country is in a good position. That's right and we're on a good path too: Unemployment is falling, growth and employment are rising – and these are fundamental foundations for our country and especially for the people of Austria. There we are in a good way, and therefore we are not among those who corrupt our country. I would like to stress this at the outset. But we are not where we belong or where our country could actually be. A few years ago, we were leaders in economic growth and we also had the lowest unemployment in all of Europe. And there, ladies and gentlemen, we should come back as Austria because it is for our prosperity and because it concerns people in our country. If we continue our country positively, then prosperity will continue to rise, and that is a fundamental task of policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also brought much further – it is right what has been said in this regard –: I only recall the 5-billion tax relief package of the tax reform, by which we are right to return money to people, to the employment bonus, reduced by the additional wage costs so that an initiative towards growth and employment is actually put in place. The Ekostromgesetz-Novelle, which contains important points especially for rural areas, has still been adopted, and we have abolished the care rules. What is still the most important issue for people in our country? – This is the whole question of security: How does refugee, asylum and foreign policy continue? As we have made a good assessment, we have passed the integration laws, namely that there are mandatory German and value courses, that there are sanctions if these courses are not attended, and that there are At the end of the day, integration can only be provided if the people who want to stay in our country also provide a counter-performance. Sebastian Kurz, as Minister for Integration, has made sure that these legislative proposals have come into Parliament, and we have also decided to do so. This is very important in the sense of security and in the sense of further development in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also had some points that we could not agree on, and that is of course the reason for it on the 15th. ==References====External links== Take, for example, the minimum guarantee: We have been negotiating for a long time, but we have not come where there are already three federal states, namely my homeland Upper Austria, Lower Austria and also the Burgenland. They have already decided that there is a lower minimum guarantee for people who have not lived in Austria in recent years. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Juhu!]] 560 € in Upper Austria, 572 € in Lower Austria or 584 € in Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that we also take social justice into account in legislation. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is no justice!]] If a minimum pensioner in Vienna has to come out with €840, it is not to be seen that a recognised refugee who moves in next to her gets as much money from the first day as the minimum pensioner who has been living in our country for decades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Christian-social!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We still stand for a nationally uniform minimum guarantee, because it is necessary to show the differences. As the question of Europe has been raised, there is also a very clear word – by the way, our foreign minister is currently on the road in Italy –: It is about closing the Mediterranean route. Why do we want to close this route? – Because we want to end the death of this crazy death in the Mediterranean because the tractors have to be laid the craftsmanship and because we can’t take up unlimited immigrants in Austria. These are the three main points, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why the Mediterranean route has to be closed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can only say that, of course, I understand the nervousness of the other political groups. [[Call the FPÖ: Please! You are such Pharisees!]] We're currently experiencing a game, you could say, all against short. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is also understandable if you look at this huge movement that Sebastian has been leading for a few weeks. [[Abg. Kogler: He's a phantom! He's never here!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Let me give you an example: ==References== July our party meeting held in Linz, and when the party day was over and we came to the square in front of the Design Center, 5,000 people were standing in this place and waiting for Sebastian to be brief. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Two and a half hours people have been photographed with him and made selfies because people in Sebastian see the hope and a good future. That makes you nervous, of course, it's very right for us, because we want this movement until the 15. October so big that we, the new People's Party with Sebastian Kurzan, are clearly the first to go through the goal. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We are already trembling!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That doesn't have a news score!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] Therefore, I can only call the voters: We thank every one of us who comes to this movement. I can only say: Decide well, decide freely, decide for Sebastian Kurzand the new People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5917	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e5939	Well, it's easier. That wasn't a talk, it was a sermon. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's all right, now's election campaign, and he's the Herald of Sebastian Kurz and he's done his job here. We shouldn't be angry with him either, he'll have to practice a little more, it was a little too forward, but it'll certainly get even worse. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Wöginger, one thing I have to say: You haven't won the election yet! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] You've already celebrated out here, you've already been celebrated, but I think that's a little hasty and almost superfluous to the voters, who want to decide who from 15. There's something to say in the final effect here in the house on October. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is how it looks!]] That is why I would like to say that we should try to look over the edge of the plate. The debate here is very limited. Many of the things we want to do in Austria have an international drive, are dependent on other things and so on. Of course we are in favour of securing and controlling Austrian borders, of course we are in favour of securing the EU's external borders – of course! – and, of course, we are in favour, because of the new legal situation, that integration also works the way we want it, because we want the living standards in Austria, because we have the life culture in Austria, because we have to protect Austrians, because they have to rely on us and because they have to assume that we all represent Austrian interests together here. [[Abg. Höfinger: Since when?]] Jakob Auer said that perfectly correctly: ==References== October we all have to be able to look at each other here – even though we are now working out differences, even if we are now discussing them – and we are really trying to do the best for Austria. You can blame the government a lot, but you have now heard the individual speakers, and I have to tell you that many projects have been implemented. It has been noted by Mr Kickl that he is condescending colleagues, because he has not been here and has not listened to his speech, but at least he has received more applause than Mr Strache. That would make me think in your group. In fact, this was a courage therapy for you, which he held there, and I, after speaking, asked myself the question of where in this speech was the offer for a government participation. Where? [[Abg. Kassinger: I'm not saying anything anymore!]] This was a maximum application for the Tschauer-Stegrifbühne. That's okay, I like that too. I love to listen to him, but what happens after that? – This is the decisive thing that we also have to judge. [[Abg. Kassinger: What is the theme of today's meeting?]] The Committee on Foreign Affairs was in the Spanish Parliament and in the German Parliament – Mr Lopatka was there too – and we were mainly concerned about migration. Just closing the Mediterranean route is not possible, because that's not a door where you take a key, locked and say it's closed now; that's not it. [[Abg. Lopatka: But the goal should be already!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] That we must do everything we can to ensure that the ships leaving Libya go back to Libya or back to Egypt, and not to Italy, all of this is undisputed. Please don't pretend there's someone inside here who says: Thank God there is the Mediterranean route; 35 million Africans are now on their way to Europe and, as far as possible, all are to come. – That’s nonsense, no one wants, and that’s especially unfair to these millions who wander and are deceived by the tractors, which are criminals who rape women, lie and betroth them. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] When we were in the German Bundestag and the German Ministry of Development – by the way, a CSU ministry, but in a CDU SPD government – we were told they had to verify how many dead people were in the Sahara who had wandered because of these lies and the hopes they had. – 1 million to 1.5 million dead! This is not a point of view, it is not a side-by-side issue, it is a matter of focusing on the values of Europe and humanity, to see and to take into account. It is therefore necessary to take measures. Do you know what's brave? – It’s not fair to take action and criticize Merkel together at the CSU party, but it’s courageous to stand up – for example in Davos when the important people of the world economy meet – and ask: Is this another just world economy that we have? Is that fair? An article in the current issue of the “Time” states that 600 billion € have been transferred to Africa in the last 50 years. Again, 20 million people face hunger. Is that fair? 35 million people now want to walk, all want to go up. Is it fair that we are not able to create the livelihoods through fair trade, for example, by the chance that they can carry out value creation there, by the chance that they can sell their products? In short, people stay where they are, not because we do not like them, but because they should have a chance for their lives, for their future, and because they should be partners for economic development. That's crucial! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] If you look at the annual report – this is a CSU-led ministry – you can see that 0.7 percent in the world own 45 percent and 73 percent own only 2.4 percent. The representative of the Ministry says: These are corrupt and criminal governments in Africa, we can't work with any government, they're criminals, they're Ganoven, we have to choose the countries. We have at our disposal €8 billion in the Ministry of Development Aid and we want there to develop an economic structure, start-ups, everything possible, infrastructure. In fact, these are the partners of the future. We need to see that the population explosion does not go on infinity, because this is no longer compatible with the economic growth that exists in Africa. We need to see that the capital outflow from Africa to Europe – where funds are being built and money is spent – ends, and we need to see the money coming back to Africa. Therefore, it is too short to say that closing the Mediterranean route is correct if the question is not answered what the roots are for these miseries. This concerns the entire Mediterranean region, the North African countries, the countries south of the Sahara, where all these migrations take place. But that means being courageous against the arms dealers, against the arms industry, against the stupid, corrupt and criminal governments, against the criminal tugs. It means being courageous to fight here in Europe too for Europe to appear together. That is why this EU representative, who is supposed to take care of it, is correct; it is true that we are all working together on it. There you need the power and the power to really do something. It also includes making alliances, which includes China and America – at Trump I don't know, who lives in another world, his son now, too, I think, the whole family, so that's difficult – those who are really strong, who really are behind it. I wanted to say that clearly. We discussed this in the German Bundestag. Spain has special contracts with Morocco. The Spaniards also secure the borders there, which even the police officers pay there, they have concluded special contracts, which are also active there. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] We should be in the interests of Austria in this main question, which concerns the 15th century. October will be an important question, to join forces, then, I believe, the Austrians will also be fully behind us, behind all of us, but of course I hope very much behind the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6099	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1675 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. – I would ask you to stop taking photos during the voting process. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[12:32:46]] Short debate on the response to the question 12483/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6156	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 12483/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Steinbichler to open the debate as an applicant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6191	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! If you are at home at lunchtime, a blessed meal! [[The speaker presents a board on which a container ship and the Austrian flag are depicted, with the title “Genussland Austria” on the speaker's desk.]] Thank you very much! A general comparison for entrances: What does the debate on the morning, this government discussion with this food discussion have in common? – A strong label and a weak content. I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Steinhauser, to Mr Wöginger and to Mr Cap for their touching words, which they have found during the refugee discussion, during the hunger debate and during the war discussion. Hunger creates wars, and all of this we produce ourselves daily. We are currently running a fundraising campaign of “Neighbar in Emergency”: ‘Hungary in Africa’. We are in exactly this debate, the answer to the question I have put to the Minister. I asked him seven questions, which he unfortunately did not answer. With our consumer behaviour – from the animal kingdom to the daily lunch table, where many of us are now sitting – we support this development every day. Every hour, 1,000 acres of rainforest are odated. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine this area: 1,000 acres of rainforest per hour, at a time when a solidarity action is under way. The brave taxpayers are supposed to donate for the sins that the corporations impose on the continents. That's the conclusion from this behavior. Mr Rupprechter, it is incomprehensible that you do not answer a question put exclusively on this subject. You could have any support if you wanted. We have nine agricultural chambers, we have a Federal Chamber of Agriculture, we have the statistics Austria, you have thousands of officials yourself, hundreds in the statistics, and you say there is no statistical material available. We have nine animal husbandry directors, we have nine plant engineering directors, we have nine domestic departments, we have nine environmental departments in the agricultural chambers, and we have nine feeding consultations. I was concerned when, a week ago, the feeding consultant of the Chamber of Agriculture Franz Tiebenthaler, I called him by name, at a farmer's meeting of the AGÖ before 350 farmers said: This stupid debate with palm oil! This is a very valuable oil, and if we no longer have it, then feed becomes more expensive. In order to know what the debate means – we have the debate – I will repeatedly bring examples of feed and food, which should not be called food at all. Maybe the first example, a very up-to-date one: The poor consumer should decide. How often did the Consumer Party or Farming Party ÖVP say that the consumer can decide that the consumer must choose the right product with his purchase decision? Somebody's supposed to explain this to me. This is butter, most valuable butter from domestic cows, and that is palm oil butter from the rainforest. [[Keep a pack of butter in height]] [[Keep a package of PASE butter in height]] When this is unpacked, the consumer has no chance at all to recognize what it is, because the food technology is falsifies it so that it looks good. Mr Minister, if you do not answer the question of the species of palm oil or palm fat, I will give them: It's also in dog food, it's in cat food, it's in fish feed. I'm curious what you're going to say. The third question was how much palm oil is in the milk exchangers. That's the biggest thing, the old farmers weren't stupid, they didn't say that's calves' happiness or calves' milk, they said milk exchangers. It's really interesting if you come to the Prolactal company in Hartberg in the course of the Eurofighter Committee, which was concluded yesterday: This is a well-known company – my condolences to the Listeria death and its relatives – that has appeared in the counter-businesses to the Eurofighter purchase. Previously, a colleague told me, Leo, you're going to make it to the Eurofighters in palm oil. – Now we are there and we see this network. Minister, I am disappointed that you have no statistical material on palm oil, but already the first brochure in which you celebrate yourself in 20 pictures. [[keeping an up-to-date issue of the magazine “Landreport”]] One thing is very important, from the opening of the largest grain chamber in Austria. You have not yet known that we have a drought this year thanks to the climate change that we are producing with palm oil. Now there are the first weather experts to link this up. This also destroys the climate and the environment, and then in Aschach an der Donau, the largest silo plant, the largest grain chamber of Austria, is being opened for speculation – it has something to do with farmers. Mr. Minister, stored in there – and that is why I took the ship with me, we need to know how the silo plant is being filled – the AMA seal-capable palm oil? [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] It's not satisfactory when you write, well, there's first conversations with the AMA. You didn't list which feed is in there, we have the formulas available, as feed manufacturers advertised with AMA seal-enabled palm oil. Let's not get out of the nose! It is simply unfair if you do not give an answer to the question of the information requirement of feed companies. Yeah, where are we? With the farmers, every tree must be recorded as a landscape element, every wick with surface where it was driven, with date, and that must be kept for seven years. We're talking about debureaucratisation. Every shadow on the alm must be measured so that there is no over-use by the miners. Or if I look at that: Every bovine has two earmarks; from seven days after birth they will be checked – there you are sharp! Then let's see what happens in the processing in the slaughterhouses! But we don't have any documents, you say. – For this you produce very valuable high-gloss brochures for self-advertising. I said I also bring examples of food [[Keeping a pack of coconut-mandel pastry balls in height]] This is to be held daily at every supermarket bank: with palm oil. Of course, this is just a product, I could name hundreds here. In order to know what quantities are being traded here: This is a package for the hotel industry and gastronomy – I am still not talking about the system gastronomy; there it is the worst – for four 2.5 kilo packs of palm oil. [[Keeping a corresponding carton made of corrugated board in height]] You have to know what amounts this is about! And that's not just about the oil – because the colleague of the SPÖ always says that it's important that we can't provide the population otherwise – no, this is the area of our cultural landscape! A cow uses a hectare of most valuable permanent pasture – drinking water protection, biodiversity, plant diversity, health for people, healthy fat. That's the substitute fat, that's the healthy fat. [[Keep a package of PASE butter in height]] [[Keep a pack of butter in height]] That is the problem, and it is so important that we inform the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] We don't want to get ahead of them like the colleague Wöginger by telling them that there is only one Messiah to choose, but they should be on 15 May. Deciding freely on October. They are supposed to make a good choice, make a sustainable choice, because since 2009 the quality seal law has been postponed in this House, which would solve this problem with a blow. And I am absolutely clear, Minister, why this must not happen: because with a blow the surplus lie would crumble: The milk lake would run out immediately, the Butterberg would melt immediately, the grain surpluses that never existed would be gone! Let's look at the ways of the wood: We have 47 percent forest in Austria. And now we're looking at where the pellets, where the firewood comes from in the building markets. – That is why we want to prevent Austria from being in there where Austria stands, and that is why I am so disappointed, Minister, that you refuse these answers. There is no need for us to count every shovel on the farm, and there are no statistical documents in the processing, where there are large quantities of container trains. One thing was very interesting to me: I was in Lower Austria on Sunday at a slaughterhouse opening. I was amazed – and it must have been so that I went – because, of course, 50 meters before that was a production site of Vegemite; only so that we know what shortcomings there are in the food market. That is why we want to stand up for sustainability, which is why we ask this question: so that we can start the matter so that we can give citizens, consumers – and we are 100% consumers! – ensuring that we have a fair partnership, a sustainable partnership, a partnership within the meaning of the environment, climate, health, employment, but especially a strong partnership within the meaning of our descendants. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6339	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6360	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steinbichler! Palm oil shall be classified as vegetable fats in the individual feed catalogue in accordance with EU Regulation No 68/2013 and authorised in the EU as feed for placing on the market. Palm oil fats are used as raw fats, among other things, due to their good technical properties and as a substitute for animal fats. As stated in the reply to the parliamentary question, no detailed statistical data as requested in the request is in fact available to the resort. However, the following additional information may be provided: According to the current supply balance 2015/2016 for vegetable fats and oils, some 457,000 tonnes, of which around 200 000 tonnes from domestic production, are used in Austria. Only nearly 17 000 tonnes are listed as feed. Palm oil imports to Austria totalled around 43 000 tonnes in 2016, which is less than 10 percent of the total consumption of vegetable fats and oils. In general, it is noted that in the last ten years the use of palm oil in Austria has fallen sharply; there has been a 30 percent reduction in ten years. In 2015, the consumption of palm oil in feed amounted to just 10,000 tonnes. In addition to other vegetable oils and fats, palm oil is used by some compound feed manufacturers as an ingredient for feed. The dosage depends on the type of feed and the target species and varies between 5 and 45 percent. In milk exchangers, which are not produced in Austria – mostly from the Netherlands and are imported for distribution – palm oil is used at a dose of about 20 percent. Palm oil-free feed is also an important concern for me, so we have now commissioned a study for the Green Report 2017. The Green Report will be sent to the National Council in good time in September, and this issue is dedicated to its own chapter. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the resolution of the National Council with No 201/E of 17. May go in. This concerns the regulation of the use of palm oil in AMA seal products. With this resolution, I was invited to “in talks with AMA Marketing GmbH to ensure that no palm oil is used in food certified with AMA seal.” These talks took place. The AMA is invited to prohibit this in the formulation in the currently very few AMA seal products containing palm oil. According to AMA Marketing, I can tell you that this minimum use will end completely with January 2018. Thank you very much, Mr Steinbichler. Thank you, High House!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6404	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6425	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Steinbichler has once again taken a very wide bow, where at the end everyone asks what it was all about. The topic is: Palm oil feed, which figures are available in Austria? The Minister has also mentioned a number of figures here. However, if you look generally at what palm oil is used for, then it is said that about one third of the total palm oil in the EU goes into the food sector, including in the feed production, but most of the palm oil is fired as a biodiesel. In other words, almost half of the palm oil consumption in Europe is in the form of biodiesel, and of course the question is, of course, justified: Does it make sense to use a vegetable fat produced under very worrying ecological conditions as a fuel? That's what it's all about! This black-and-white discussion you're holding: We're making a law, and everything's good, that's not right. We know: If palm oil were banned in Germany today, the growing area would increase by 1.4 million hectares worldwide. 1.4 million hectares would also be needed to produce other vegetable fats to replace palm oil. That is why we need a much broader discussion, because we have not expanded by another 1.4 million hectares of this distress and misery, which are actually present in the Third World, due to palm oil production. That is not a solution to a problem that actually exists! We know that the conditions of production in developing countries are such that they do not meet our requirements. We also know that these fires, for example, lead to massive climate warming in Indonesia. – All these are problems that we are aware of! Now we come, because you have put the discussion so wide, also on the issue of why we are so critical when it comes to free trade: because free trade should be more than cheap trade! Free trade should be a fair trade, free trade should also take into account the well-being of people. You're right, but it's not a solution to say: We forbid palm oil!, and then we simply take the nearest more favourable oil that is produced at the same bad conditions. It is a matter of achieving different living conditions for people in the Third World – that is our task! – and we only achieve this by finally changing trade to fair trade: away from these cheap imports, where no standards are required! Here, standards should be required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And because the feed was addressed: Of course, it is a matter of prohibiting palm oil for feed. On the one hand, we know that the need for substitutes is greater, but if we know that only around 2% of feed is used in the European Union, then I think we can certainly support a request that says we should achieve a ban on palm oil in feed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] The Swiss Farmers' Association now demands such a thing, which is the latest development in Switzerland. In Switzerland about one sixth of palm oil consumption goes to the feed industry. That's why one thing is very important to us: What is the solution of the whole? – We need fair trade in this area of fats, we also need a changed consumer behaviour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] And because the topic of animal fats has come: We should also come to the whole field of food production. Why is vegetable fat in the feed all at all? – Because, thanks to the BSE crisis, animal feed was replaced by vegetable feed at the time, so the palm oil came into the feed. One important thing – Leo has already mentioned it – is: If consumers are to decide to take a conscious approach to products, they also need appropriate information. That is why it is important, and that is what we are calling for. For a long time, we have had even more transparency in the products. We need even more simple explanations for consumers regarding what is inside, and there is simply the expectation for me that if I buy a product on which an AMA seal is located, there is no palm oil inside. Thanks to the initiative of the House, we have achieved that we will implement food products – I hope they will be implemented very quickly – and I hope that in autumn we will get to the point where we demand a ban on feed, so that no more palm oil can be contained in feed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6506	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6528	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! We also see the use of palm oil in the food industry very critically, I must say quite honestly, and therefore I am pleased to have this discussion here again and again. In the short term, raising awareness among consumers is the only way to reduce the use of palm oil. It must be said – the Minister has mentioned this – that the use of palm oil has been reduced in recent years. Especially the pastry manufacturers, probably also due to the discussion and awareness-building, are increasingly abandoning palm oil, even though it has very good properties. We know that palm oil is very cheap, easy to use and easy to handle. Of course, we also know the environmental impact: In Indonesia and Malaysia, in these two countries, 30 percent, almost one third of the entire plant oil production in the world is produced – that must already give us some thought! The impact on the environment and also on the social impact of these countries must be taken into account in particular. However, we are a small country and we need to create a common solution in this regard – together with the EU – so that customs restrictions and import restrictions can be imposed. We cannot influence the trade relations of these countries in so far as we cannot, of course, prohibit these countries from producing palm oil. We must be aware of that. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: These are EU investors...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I don't think we're going to get palm oil out of food production, because it's very, very good. Palm oil in feed, I would like to make a few comments: We have tabled a joint proposal in the Committee on Agriculture, and I believe that here the AMA is really required that, as the Minister has said, we actually remove it from the feed until 2018. I think that this is a common goal, but I also say that the new common agricultural policy would have compensation options by being able to compensate for this palm oil in part by increasing the cultivation of rapes and other oil plants and animal fats. In this sense, I would like to thank you for this discussion, because such discussions always lead to consumer awareness being strengthened, and I hope that we will achieve a reduction in the use of palm oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6572	The next speaker is Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6594	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, the right of interconnection is for every Member and is, of course, an important instrument in this House. Mr Federal Minister, I think you have answered this question very, very briefly, in order to formulate it politely. But here I come to the motion for a resolution that you have already mentioned positively: on this motion for a resolution by all the political groups in this House, in which you have been asked to take measures and initiatives in connection with the AMA in this regard, in order to make it clear in this area as well. You can blame Leo Steinbichler a lot, but you can't agree with him: In this legislative period, he has supported and served the subject of palm oil with all power and power here. [[Abg. Schönegger: “Power” is exaggerated!]] You have to congratulate yourself on this. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Double farmer.]] As a Member of Parliament, you have certainly achieved the theme leadership in this House and here has become more sensitive to this issue. One important point for us liberals is, of course, to obtain labelling in the field of food, but also in the case of feed, and above all, Mr Federal Minister – that is now the future task in this field – to collect the necessary data. Data – in whatever form – is needed regarding the use of palm oil, whether in feed or in food. Another point, of course, is the processed palm oil in the food, because it is also proven that it is harmful to health, which we consume as consumers. In this respect, we have to work here in the House, and I wish everything in this area, all the good and that we will then be able to implement the new GP accordingly with data and facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6634	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague smoke was really very polite; I don't want to be quite polite, but rather speak a little more clear text: Mr Bundesminister, this answer to Mr Steinbichler's question is not enough. Not enough! – We have a school degree, and this is a clear statement that we need to make. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] Your answer is as follows: On questions 1 to 7, say a line and a word: “Detailed statistical data to answer questions 1 to 7 are not available to the resort.” – Yes, only the colleague Steinbichler did not require any statistical data from you, but he asked you what opinion you have on these and those questions as regards palm fat in feed, which is the legal opinion as regards professional opinion in [[Abg. Oils: That's what he's doing more often!]] Your resort is et cetera. - No answer. Her oral reply to this day was already much more gripping and inconsistency. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] You should have written in, Minister, then you would have made a proper reply to the question that some 10,000 tonnes of feed are currently made up of palm fat – you have answered that – and that also, that was interesting, milk exchangers from the Netherlands contain up to 20 percent palm fat. [[new interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a free market in Europe, i.e. such feed is used in Austrian agriculture, Mr Minister, and there is no need for action, no question at all! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] The fact that you do not provide information on the approximately quantities of milk exchangers from abroad, from Holland, I think that from a agricultural policy point of view I am simply and simply a refusal to reply. If you don't have the numbers, it would be necessary that you finally get them! As Minister you also have rights, and the feed companies are constantly monitored by the AMA, so there you could get the data at any time. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to use this debate on an answer to the question of what several Members have said very, very clear and strikingly here today. Mr Steinhauser started with the basic question: How is it going to go into a glass when people from those regions that are actually affected by climate change are affected by agricultural exploitation, by land harvesting, by palm oil, by plantation, by investment by European and American companies when these people are moving? As far as the history of investment is concerned, Mr Cap has also tried very, very well to open up a thrust here. Yes, Mr Cap, it's right: African governments are lagging behind, and there is a lot of corruption. Why? – Because civil society is not strengthened in these states, because a public press, which is truly independent and also reports corruption, abuses in the country, does not exist because, as before, journalists are still being threatened with death, and they also have to expect, when they attack the ruling elites, that this political work really falls victim to. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the questions of Europe today, it is about rethinking this Europe: from the national parliaments, in cooperation with the European Parliament and with strong ministries, which not only bear sustainability in their title or are called the Ministry of Life, but also offensively represent development cooperation in the agricultural sector. Mr. Minister, that would have been your task. A few years ago you arrived here with: “I am a greener of the first hour”. I can only laugh more about it today. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: I also have...!]] We have both been together in Hainburg, which is true, but there is not much left with you: from time to time, from one to two lip confessions. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Just think of the World Food Programme: Austria has shortened this. Where do the major initiatives remain in your area, precisely as far as agricultural development is concerned? [[Federal Minister Rupprechter:... is not at all true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This sensitive area of agricultural production is crucial in the global context. More than 40 percent of the world's population is still working in rural Africa, Asia et cetera. There is hunger – in rural areas, inconceivable! How's that? – Because agricultural groups, because of the fact that large investments are happening, farmers, small farmers, are being sold from their parcels, driven out of the rainforest, are being driven out of sustainable development, so that we in Europe receive cheap raw materials for the industry, for diesel. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a lifestyle is not sustainable. Mr Minister, there is no doubt about it. As ministers, the Environment Council, the Council of Agriculture Ministers, had long called for a fundamental reform of the European agricultural policy, away from an export orientation that leads to global destruction, to a genuine ecological circular economy here in Europe for our farmers and, of course, for our consumers! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6760	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6781	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! I have to deal with it again. Mr Steinbichler, Leo Steinbichler, asked for a question at the beginning of May on the subject of "palm oil in feed" and de facto did not receive an answer. This may have two reasons: Either you didn't want to answer or you couldn't answer. Perhaps the ministry really does not have the data. We've just seen, there's some data. That is why it is just a shame to get this answer, because there is, of course, the suspicion that the answer to the question was not very serious. This is really bad, this is a smooth disregard for Parliament's control right! Anyway – on the matter itself: It is a matter on which we are basically agreed. It is about the global cultivation of palm oil as a threat to the ecosystem worldwide – biodiversity is a huge topic – and we see the problem of land harvesting, investment protection, wage slavery, child labour. These are exactly the issues that have already been addressed here. That is why palm oil is simply a very, very important issue that we need to discuss seriously. Although I do not believe that we can substitute all palm oil by milk fat, there are great approaches that are already on the table. Palm oil in biosprit: 45 percent of global production goes to biosprit, which is of course something we need to look at. This does not make sense, nor should there be any support for it. To the 34 percent that go globally in food: AMA seal right and good, but here it's just that for every second product in the supermarket – and that's not just about food, it's about detergents, soaps, cosmetics and such things, no matter what – palm oil is used. There are other substances that could be used equally well. This requires not only fair trade, which has been mentioned before – it is absolutely important – but also awareness-raising among consumers that must take place. We have already mentioned this at one of the last meetings. What it takes to make these conscious decisions is also certification and labelling. A uniform certification of palm oil, so that the powerful consumers can either hit it or not, so that they can buy the right and conscious, but is outstanding. We NEOS have taken action to make evidence-based policies. Palm oil is not a small matter, so we expect a serious discussion on this subject in the future. This includes the collection of the relevant data, which includes the orderly Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6830	Reported as follows: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6851	Madam President. I would also like to thank the previous speakers for their appreciation and recognition, for all of them: Thank you very much! What is meant by patience shows: It's not just about the last four years, but 12 years ago I started the discussion with this can at the Gmundner General Assembly in the district sports hall. [[The speaker holds a can of vegetable spray cream in the height]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the agricultural policy has changed since then? – Now this Belgian plant spray is no longer on top of it: “The good from the Salzkammergut”, but Gmundner Milch is still the general importer of this main competition product of healthy, honest top! That must be said. This is the decisive thing: The EU is the second largest palm oil importer to India! There are unheard-of quantities – which is why the image of the cargo ship would again be fitted with the containers – which are imported there, which is substituted on the surface! At that time, Mr Vogl, we spoke of surplus areas: We need biogas plants, we need to reuse the surplus areas. – We import 140 000 hectares of land for soya to Austria. We import 120 000 hectares of palm groves into Austria. We know – and therefore, Mr Minister, I join in the assessment with the note five, especially with you as the Minister of Life and the Environment, that in this palm oil, in this monoculture, a lot of fertilizers are used and a lot of glycosate is sprayed. This is the disaster par excellence: We feed consumers with glyphosate directly from the plate. That's irresponsible! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] Mr Vogl! This is so essential to me because I especially appreciate the understanding of consumers because I know that the consumer is the most important partner and he wants healthy products. But with this palm oil discussion we have produced a milk-to-surplus production – under quotation marks. There has never been a surplus, but the EU has launched a milk reduction programme last year, killing 300 000 innocent dairy cows. Whoever has strangled such a sweet animal knows what has been done to these cattle! They were driven to the slaughterhouses with the argument of the surpluses. And what else happens – I appeal to the shelterers –: Ten thousand orangutans are shot on the palm oil plantations because they rob the fruit there. There is the brutalest way of dealing, not only with the people, with the poor refugees, but also with the animal world! That's just irresponsible. That's why: Thank you very much for this support! I am convinced that we still have many issues that we hope will continue in the next legislative period. I wish everyone a pleasant summer! I am mistaken that we can close this meeting with such an important topic, with food, with food, with the basis of our people. I have a big goal: We should position Austria for the future: as a demonstration country in the field of the environment, as a show country in the field of tourism, in the areas – very important! – Food, agriculture and energy. I believe that this is the best we can do for our citizens, for our guests and especially for our future generations. – Thank you very much! A nice summer!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6900	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[13:08:44]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6924	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Dr. Strolz, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 412/A by Mr Dr. Hable, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until 19. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[13:09:24]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 2016/2017
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6951	I would like to make the following request from the honourable Member. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Strache, Mag. Steinhauser, Dr. Strolz and Ing. Lugar before: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary 2016/2017 meeting of the XXV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 14th century. to be declared terminated on July 2017,’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[13:10:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e6982	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 2274/A to 2282/A(E). [[13:10:15]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00192_d7e7003	I have the written request of 20 Members, the proposed version of the official protocol with regard to the just-decided legislative decision, with which the XXV. The legislative period of the National Council is ended prematurely, 1675 of the supplements, as well as the just-decided decision at the end of the ordinary meeting of the XXV in 2016/2017. To read the legislative period of the National Council so that these parts of the Official Protocol are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I read: Report by the Constitutional Committee on amendment 2162/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Robert Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, a federal law with which the XXV. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely (1675 of the supplements) The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1675, shall be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings (for which S, V, F, G, N, T).’ "It is the request of the honourable Member, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues (Annex E) before: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary 2016/2017 meeting of the XXV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 14th century. To be declared terminated on July 7, 2017.’ The request (Annex E) is accepted by a majority vote (S, V, F, G, N, T). There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 delegates to read the Official Protocol on the single item on the agenda and the decision to terminate the ordinary meeting of XXV in 2016/2017. The legislative period of the National Council (Annex F).’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of those sections of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 1.33 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
