ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e777	The meeting was opened. Deputies of Baumgartner, Grünberg, Brückl and Dipl.-Ing. are reported as prevented. I announce that the Constitutional Committee has ended its meeting and that the Committee reports are available. The agenda for this meeting of the National Council was distributed in writing. I announce that this meeting will be held in full length by ORF III, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e820	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 and 2 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 1 and 2 are reports by the Constitutional Committee on Amendments 16/A by Members Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Angela Lueger, Werner Herbert, colleagues on Service Law Novelle 2017 (1 of the Supplements) and 17/A of Deputies August Wöginger, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Heinz-Christian Strache, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials and the Federal Remuneration Act (2 of Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. [[15:32:07]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e872	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the honourable Members. Gerstl and Dr. Bösch requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the own-initiative proposal 14/A concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry's Law 1986 be limited to 15. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I would also like to point out that Members Dr. Little and Magnificent. Haider requested that the Budget Committee report on the 30/A initiative proposal on the legal budget for 2018 be limited to 15. ==References== This motion for a resolution will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e904	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e929	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: for the ÖVP 46, for the SPÖ and FPÖ each 41, for NEOS and for the Pilz list every 14 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:34:24]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 16/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Angela Lueger, Werner Herbert, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Law on Contracts and Contracts, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 17/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Heinz-Christian Strache, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of the Contracts of Public Officials and the Federal Reference Act (2 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1004	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the above-mentioned reports of the Constitutional Committee. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Muna Duzdar. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1034	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the opportunity to offer hundreds of thousands of employees in the public service the appreciation they actually deserve. As one of the last projects of the German Government, the Novelle Service Law present to you has the salary balance, the salary increase for public servants of 2.33 percent. This salary statement, ladies and gentlemen, benefits – only to illustrate this – in about half a million people in Austria, 206,000 people directly and 260 000 people indirectly. Finance Minister Schelling and I on the government side, together with the Public Service Trade Union and the Younion, have agreed to this conclusion in intensive constructive negotiation. We started these salary negotiations early on, namely in September 2017 before the National Council elections. At the time, this was the union's explicit wish, which I also liked to live up to. I took this task very seriously, because it was never about individual interests, but about the overall responsibility towards the Austrians. And, of course, I am pleased that negotiations have succeeded in achieving a good outcome. This is why I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor's officials, the Minister of Finance and his officials, for their very, very good cooperation. I am also very glad that it was now possible to make this salary statement effective for the thousands of employees with an annual change. I am firmly convinced that this salary statement is a very, very good result for both sides. We have, of course, considered the overall economic situation during the negotiations, and we have considered the key economic data. Fortunately, we have been in the situation – and this has often been the case today – that we have a high level of economic growth. But at the same time we also had a high inflation rate and have always said that we want the upturn to come to everyone, including the public servants. For we do not forget, in times of tense economic situation, in times of economic crisis, it was also the employees of the federal government who often had to stay behind. I think the balance of this conclusion is particularly evident in the fact that many federal states have taken over this salary statement, such as Vienna, Styria, Burgenland or Tyrol. However, I am also very glad that, despite the initial contrary statements of the Federal Republic of Austria, it was finally possible to reach a solution in which the majority of the staff of the country of Upper Austria can also benefit from this increase in salary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, looking back over the last one and a half years as Secretary of State, I would like to say a few things here: It was always important to me at this time to strengthen the public service, because I also saw it as my essential task to highlight and underline the importance and importance of public service in our society. I have not at any time responded to populist outrages against the employees of the state. If I sometimes hear about officials and officials talking about how supposed privileges are being condemned, their achievements are adjourned, then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Who are these officials? Who are the public servants? – It’s our teachers, it’s our police, it’s our kindergarten teachers, it’s all those who make sure our cities and communities stay clean every day, all those who make sure that our country is safe and peaceful. Without the public service, our society could not work smoothly. That is why it was also important for me to set certain accents consciously in these one and a half years, for example among the entry salaries of police students and police students. Here I have caused the increase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, I would like to remind you that in early 2006, under black and blue, the entry salaries for police students and police students were reduced sensitively. It was therefore important to introduce this increase here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This was so important to me from the point of view of democracy: that people who are in the middle of life also have the opportunity to take up this profession without the family being deprived of the basis of life for two years. I think this is a very important measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] The fact that we are implementing today the socially agreed increase in nighttime credit has also been an important, good step: Police officers then receive more than half of the rest hours per night shift. In fact, this is a recognition of the special burden that the executives are exposed to. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if I speak today of how important it was to strengthen the public service, it must be mentioned that it has also been a question of overcoming the human thinning of the public service that has taken place over years. My main goal was to give the public service self-confidence or to equip it with the new self-confidence, which I thought was long overdue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say here one for all those who dream of more private, less state and see public service as a purely saving factor. It must be clear that there is a direct link: Of course, cuts in this area directly affect every citizen and every citizen – the quality of the public service is the basis for our high quality of life! This is an essential building block for the rule of law and legal certainty in Austria. This is exactly the view I have shared with the trade unions. Negotiations with the Public Service Union and the Younion were therefore always of mutual respect. I regard and appreciate the social partners. It is a very important institution of social balance and bridge construction, and we have always had a fair balance of interests in this tradition. Ladies and gentlemen! Just the generation that rebuilt this social partnership after the war was characterized by the experiences of the war, by the experiences of radicalization, polarization, a division in society. These people have come to the simple and simple realization that it is simply important to get together, talk to each other and enter into a dialogue with each other in the sense of this country – this is just as important today as it was then! Austria is a model example of social dialogue, which is exactly what characterizes us all over the world. To leave them would, in my opinion, – and I am convinced of this – have significant risks for social compensation in Austria. In this important tradition is also my work and thus also this service law novelle. I would also like to mention here that at the social partnership level, we originally had negotiated a much more comprehensive package for a service law novel – unfortunately, in the course of government transformation, it was only possible to implement some of it. I therefore appeal to the new Federal Government to implement the already negotiated parts, such as that – just as in the private sector – the treatment of seriously ill family members will be extended. The insurance of the employees of the federal government and their survivors in the event of accidents or tragic deaths is also a point. For example, this is about the fact that the families of killed police officers and policemen have a right to take over funeral expenses, which should apply to all employees of the federal government. Another example, which was part of this comprehensive service rights package, is the improved billing of leave for the corridor board for officials. Unfortunately, these points are not in accordance with this request, we could only agree on a reduced form of service law novelle. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to this request. In conclusion, however, let me make a personal comment: I would like to thank many times for the excellent cooperation with the House during my time as Secretary of State and I am pleased to be allowed to belong to the National Council itself in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1166	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1187	Madam President. Dear Mrs Duzdar, Secretary of State! Two issues have been discussed: on the one hand, the increase in salary for public servants and on the other, material parts of the law on employment. With an inflation rate of 1.5 percent in reality, a reference increase of 2.33 percent is significant – but those who do good work should also be paid well for, that is in every profession. A politician, if he works well, is worth a lot – and if he doesn't work, he's not worth anything and he gets the money anyway, and that's how it is in every professional group. But what I want to hold on to is: If wealthy federal states like the country of Upper Austria are hard to understand such a salary conclusion, this is already an indication that you have landed very close to the top of the potential with your negotiation result. But much more important to me is what has not been negotiated. From the trade union side there have always been demands relating to the material service law and improvements in family life in the calculation of the pension claim. Family hospice and Karenz have called you, Mrs. State Secretary, “as in the private sector” – an employer representative should have said: But then I also want to have the lunch break paid so that it is like in the private sector. If you want the same right for everyone, you run into NEOS open doors if you want to have the same rules for all employed people, you run into open doors with us – but a negotiation in a one-way street, as you have conducted it every year, goes at the expense of taxpayers. One thing has not been negotiated: Since 2009, we have written that the accounting of pre-service periods in the public service in Austria has been uneven, and this has already been abolished several times by various highest courts. At present, a procedure is under way to abolish the weaned regime that has been last decided. I told you in the committee at the time, if you remember, that this will not be kept by simply trying to delete provisions retroactively until 1948. This is about several hundred thousand potentially affected public servants, according to the Ministry of Finance, there is a threat of additional payments of up to 3 billion euros. At the time, one was very close to a solution with the trade union Public Service under Neugebauer. This failed because Neugebauer said that there had been a loss of up to 0.6 per milligrams of his life. – Please, I’m glad that my life is not so predictable that you can already say today how much 0.6 per milligram my life’s earnings will be! You have not made an order to bring about a solution in the negotiations with the trade union. This is a damocles sword floating over taxpayers, and it would be over a year and a half. Her job as Secretary of State was to eliminate this damocles sword and to create a solution. You didn't. You went the light way, you jumped over the lowest fence, that's what we've got now. A salary increase is good and right, and it is also for the people – but a solution to the big problems you have unfortunately failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1232	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1254	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear visitors to the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Unfortunately, as Mrs State Secretary has just carried out, this service law novel is only a very limited version. A far more comprehensive innovation, which had been negotiated with the social partners, was in the room, but has now been shortened in the course of government reform. It seems that the old government is not going to be successful, which is why the Federal Ministry of Finance has deleted a number of points to which I would like to address individually. On the one hand, the implementation of the salary statement for public servants who are linear: I think this is very good, and as Mrs State Secretary pointed out in her implementation, cooperation with the Public Service Trade Union and the Younion was very fair, successful and constructive in the negotiations. It is in the sense of the employees, the public officials say that they receive a good salary increase of 2.33 percent plus allowances. We have already discussed this in the committee, and Mr Rossmann has always spoken only of the officials. I would like to point out once again that in the public service we currently have a relationship between officials and contract staff of about 50 to 50 in the Federal Government and already 20 to 80 in the countries and municipalities – that is, that is, many, many servants are already covered by the ASVG and not, as you think, only officials with special regulations. Mr Loacker, we have also discussed the time of service – but the service times are now not decided, and the Secretary of State is now no longer in a position to accept this issue. [[Abg. Loacker: She's not able!]] However, you know that this is a ongoing court procedure, you know that the Advocate General has not yet made a timetable and has not even delivered an opinion. You can't solve that now. There are several points in this Novelle Service Law, which have already been addressed, for example the ADV supplement, where, according to current case law, these provisions do not apply to the allowance of difficulty no longer as a legal basis. However, for staff to lose nothing, a legal basis has now become necessary, and it has also been incorporated. The main concern is the staff of the Ministry of Finance, which is that they lose nothing of their salary. Another change in the ADV allowance concerns the change of work: If you switch to another workplace and also need the ADV, this supplement should not be frozen as until now, but rise with the new position. The Federal Ministry of Finance also benefits from this. The extension of the opt-out scheme for middle management staff is about the additional services to be paid. This was necessary because the old solution ends at the end of the year, so this is also an important point that has been incorporated. We have here implemented the decision of the Education Reform: It needs a service-based anchorage of this new function of education directors so that we can use the 1. That's why it's also a point of this novel. The night-time credit is a scheme for executives providing more than 15 night-services. In the future, a fee of one and a half hours per night's service is paid instead of one hour. This has the advantage that first of all the performance of night shifts will be assessed more and, second, that police officers will be offered the opportunity to find their compensation. As a result, we also had to increase the time limit for the use of the time balance from six months to nine months. Especially in the cities, the use is often not possible, and this is a special burden for police officers. Points from the social partnership agreement such as family hospice, part-time reintegration and the right to replace the funeral costs of police officers who have died in the service are unfortunately not included in this amendment. I would like to say that it is sad – no, it is actually objectionable to use the public officials for these political games, not to implement the entire novell negotiated between the social partners! Good work is required of public servants for the state, but appreciation in words alone cannot be enough. We will agree with this novel, but you can be sure that we will remain Social Democrats at the open points.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1292	The next item is the speech by Mr Rossmann, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1314	Madam President. High house! I would like to start with some results from the 2016 income report. This shows that in recent years – since 1998 – an income shear has opened up: The low incomes have been extremely lost, the lower 10 percent have lost almost one third of their real income. The income center stagnates in about, and the high income – the maximum 10 percent – is easy to achieve. When we look at the professional groups, there is a completely different picture. The workers still lose: The inflation-adjusted average gross annual income of the workers I am now talking about was only 87 percent of the value of 1998 in 2015. The employees and contract staff record real income gains with plus 2 percent compared to 1998, while the officials gain plus 26 percent of real income. Considering the development of officials, it can be seen that low incomes have increased more than high incomes. That's good. Unfortunately, we have no data on contract staff, Mrs Lueger. If you would have listened better to me in committee, you would not have been able to say what you said here: I have said that precisely because there are very many, and more and more, contract staff, who want to stay behind in their income development, and we must continue the development that we can observe with the officials. But that means that in reality we cannot speak of a linear conclusion: If we want to continue to change distribution relationships in favour of low incomes, we must demand base amounts. This is what we want, because linear increases lead to a further development of low and high incomes. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] If, on the basis of this linear conclusion, our group does not agree to this salary conclusion, then this has nothing to do with the lack of appreciation of officials and contract staff. On the contrary! I has always appreciated officials and contract staff. They do a good job in this country, and I would also like to thank the staff of this House who also do very, very good work. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] What I find unbearable, however, is the development of incomes in the private and public sectors. This has become unbearable, and of course this has to do with the development of the labour market: the precarization of working conditions on the one hand, many atypical employment relationships on the other, and in the public service job security; there must be any future government. We will observe very closely this government from Black and Blue, what it will do to change this income gap between lower incomes and higher incomes, especially in the private sector, but also between private and civil servants' incomes, which we will measure them. The current government, the last government, has done nothing about this, because otherwise the results would not be as shown in the income report. Another word on the zero wage round for politicians: It is planned that political relations should rise by 1.5 percent up to EUR 4 920, but not just political relations. We have such a base amount, and I think that's how it is, and that's why we're going to agree. However, I would like to mention that we here in this House urgently need to have a debate on how the differences in income between private and public services will develop in the future, as well as among politicians. I mean, the demand for a zero wage round is extremely populist and, if we agree with this, has a lot to do with political self-esteem. Then: We politicians are worth our money! If we do not find any more people who want to go into politics – and this is always complained about – then we have to change these relations, and we will not pass through this debate. But if there is now a zero wage round for politicians, I do not at all understand why the manager salaries are not also served with a zero wage round in close-to-state businesses. There's gags in the millions. The four executive directors in Post AG earn an average of 1.6 million euros per year. The Executive Directors of the Association AG earn just over 1 million euros a year. I think the relationships are disturbed. We must conduct this debate for reasons of distribution justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1396	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerstl, for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1417	Madam President. High house! I should like to join Mr Rossmann immediately, because there is the difference: We have taken action to bring a new style into politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This means that we do not increase our salary as the very first. It is a matter of course, Mr Rossmann, that the measures for Austria should first be implemented before their salary is increased. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Noll and Mr Rossmann.]] We want not only the best minds here in this house, but also the people who connect people. We want those here who represent the people outside. We want people working here. I am pleased that we have quite a lot of people here – they make up far more than half of our group – who have come new. These are people who have idealism, people who have not asked how much they deserve here, but people who have asked what they can do for this country. That's, I think, a value it's about. It must be worth working for this country again, Mr Rossmann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Then something in connection with parliamentary democracy: It is a part of our democracy that we do not want to produce professional politicians, but rather that Members get a salary here, but not live on it exclusively, but can continue to pursue their profession, at least in part. It is important to us that our Members do not lose contact with society, with normal life in work. You should not be a drawer politician, Mr Rossmann. They're supposed to be outside the company, too. Let yourself be properly advised and represented! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: What does the Lord do in short?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Let's not forget one thing: The Members' salary is still four times the average income of an Austrian. That is why you do not need to complain, Mr Rossmann, that you will get too little. The population will not understand this. [[Abg. Rossmann: I didn't say that! Take this back, please!]] Mr Rossmann, it would be good if [[Abg. Rossmann: Take this back!]] You'd accept our new style first, we'll save ourselves first. It is not our style that our Members should double their salary by the party. This is a style that others care for, but not we in our party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schieder:... Wirtschaftsbund und Boerbund...! That's a chuzpe!]] I have said that we want a new style in this republic and also change in that republic. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, yes!]] For this change, we need people who help us. I mention just one example of change: the aggregation of social security funds. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I give another example: many other major administrative reforms that we have to deal with. We need people who can do this. That is why we are here today for a salary increase for officials and for all public servants of 2.33 percent. 2.33 percent means not only paying off inflation, but also giving staff a share of value added. I am very grateful for the fact that the President of the Trade Union Public Service Norbert Schnedl is among us today. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank God!]] I thank him for his negotiations, thanking the Secretary of State for bringing these negotiations together and thanking the Minister of Finance for having achieved this great result. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, Mrs State Secretary. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of Deputies Schieder and Drozda.]] The individual measures we are still implementing with this Novelle of Service have already been addressed, but I would like to draw particular attention to a chapter: For our police officers, who were exposed to such enormous labor pressure just two years ago, the billing of night shifts from 1 : 1 to 1 : 1.5 is now increased. I say a special thank you for that. I think we can thank all the public officials here today and express our appreciation and appreciation to them. They are the most important parts of the Austrian administration. Thank you, dear public servants! . I am very grateful to Mr Doskozil for the fact that he has been very committed to the equipment for the German army, and to the vestiges who have already obtained Mr Sobotka. [[It was a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to the Deputies of Schieder and Scherak.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: buy them some good equipment!]] [[Abg. They risk their lives, and you have not yet done anything.]] Stay relaxed when it comes to the staff, stay calm and work to ensure that the staff get proper framework conditions, also in the city of Vienna, Mr. Scheider, you will still have enough to do. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I'm relaxed anyway!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the police in Vienna could again get better police inspections, also through the city of Vienna, then we would be very, very grateful to you, and you can still do a lot of good there as mayor in Vienna, my colleague Schieder! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Give them as much equipment as in Lower Austria!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: You are a security cynic first degree!]] But let me just point out something: There is another point that has been raised by the NEOS, namely that of party financing. I find it particularly remarkable when you always look for a point, because you can reject another one again. The fact that political salaries are necessarily linked to party funding, in order to be able to say that I am against it, is not the new style, Mr Strolz. This is not the kind you would have expected from the NEOS. You should also accept the new style and stay on the subject of what it is all about. We do not support measures for Austria, and it should be worth not making populism today, you, ladies and gentlemen, of the NEOS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1656	The next item is the speech by Mr Herbert, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1677	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Clearly, there are emotional tensions between the former government parties. The ransom solution process is not yet completely complete, as I can take it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: He's been finished for a long time!]] On the matter itself: The two applications in question, namely, the 2017 Service Law Novelle, but also the zero wage round for politicians, are, I believe, important and essential legal provisions. The Service Law Novelle – and that has already been done by my previous speakers – is a good, an important, but also a valuable expression of appreciation to the public officials in various professions, from the police to the judges, from teachers to kindergartens, from the administrative officials to the prosecutors. It is a comprehensive area of staff who receive a good financial salary for their activities through this increase in wages, which we decide on today. I should like to remind you at this point that we had for years – there was not yet a government participation of the FPÖ – in which there were zero wage rounds. There were wage rounds with much lower degrees, with 0.8 to 1.2 percent. In this way, we want to accept this 2.33 percent gratefully, although of course it could be more and more. We also discussed this in committee. Of course, the public officials with gratitude would have also assumed a higher percentage, but I can justifiably say at this point that there have already been worse degrees. In addition to this salary, a further important point for a public service professional group, namely those of executive officials, should be highlighted here in particular, namely the approximation of the remuneration for night shifts, where there is already the rule that there is an hourly compensation as a recovery allowance for night shifts. This will now be approximated here. What bothered me a little at the time of this decision today is that this agreement had actually been negotiated with the Central Committee of the Executive, the Police, for some time now. Amazingly, however, she did not find the way to Parliament. A FPÖ initiative requires that we have accommodated it in today's decision-making and in this Novelle Service Law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The other good conditions, which are important and meaningful additions to these Service Law Novelle, have also been addressed. I'd like to save you that I'm going to repeat this. For the zero wage round for politicians: Even here, I think, we have found a good, common middle path by saying that all political salaries from a height of EUR 4 290.32 are to be maintained and not increased. All those who are below are very likely to participate in the increases that they are entitled to, because of course there is also a clear difference in the pay between the top politicians, the good-earners in the top policy and the other politicians, who may be doing a good, a valuable, an important job at the lower level, which is not to be underestimated. Finally, I should like to address two previous speakers. Mr Rossmann, it is of course good and right to criticise top-ranking salaries in distributed former state enterprises of up to 1 million euros you have addressed here. Of course, this is not a good approach in times like these when, on the other hand, people are calling for savings measures in other areas. However, if one takes this issue, which we are all very different from here, in order to have a principle discussion about the remuneration of employees, workers and officials, where one is then indirectly subordinated to the officials, you actually take away money from taxpayers, then this is a low estimate of the public service which I do not like. I would like to reject that in all forms. Our officials, our public servants, are doing excellent work in a wide range of areas, I have already done it in the past, and have truly not deserved such a low-rate, such a dissenting statement from you and your group. You should go in there and maybe think about your position again. Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar! In the first place, you have carried out in your statement that the black and blue government would have caused it in 2005 that the police students deserve too little. But then I wonder why it took 12 years for you to finish. I don't think it could have been that bad, because otherwise – I assume – the social democracy might have hit the bush violently before and said that there must be a change immediately. Now, at the end of your decade in the government, to point out this again, under the motto, then we are giving the new Federal Government something quickly, is not a good style either. I would also like to distance myself from that. All in all, these two provisions, which are discussed here, as I mean, good, meaningful and balanced measures for public service, are also a sign to the population that politicians are beginning to save first. There I am with my previous speaker. Gerstl, who has already explained that one can only demand something from the population if one gives a good sign before. For this, this zero wage round is always a good example for politicians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1728	The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1749	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We are now discussing two laws, namely, the Novelle Service Law, which contains improvements to the public service, and, on the other hand, the Contributory Restriction Act. With the latter law, the Remuneration Restriction Act, politicians abandon the planned salary increase in 2018. This is a sign that we are also contributing to saving public expenditure, and it is important for me to stress that this does not apply to politicians who earn less than the salary of a federal council, which is particularly the case with mayors. This is above all a sign of appreciation for the work of these people who are in contact with the citizens on a daily basis, so to speak, as well as our public servants. Public service stands for the diversity of the tasks of a state. These range from education to health to safety, from teachers to nurses to police. Public servants in the federal government, in the countries and in the municipalities are the foundation of the administration of this state, and public administration is essential for the stability of a state and also for the trust of people in that state. Not least, the public officials are also implementing the laws we decide here. I would therefore like to thank all the public servants who, in various areas, in different places, each in its place, with their work and their daily commitment, ensure the functioning of the state. In general, the appreciation of the work done is expressed by respect and respect for the profession. The present salary statement also expresses this appreciation to public servants in figures and ensures that there is no loss of earnings in inflation of 1.9 percent. A fair and fair solution has been found. It was the first time that this law was passed on to the United States. The European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are fully aware of the need to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are able to take a more effective and more effective approach to the problem of unemployment. to be able to comply with humane procedures. It could almost be said that it is a high office of parliamentarianism, but also an example of a good relationship, which shows what is going on and how far you get when you have a common goal in mind and want to implement it together. However, the completion of the salary is not the only one, but above all the conditions for the appointment of the new educational directors are created. I would also like to stress particularly the success of the negotiations between our Minister for the Interior Wolfgang Sobotka and the Executive Union, with regard to the night-time credit for executive staff, which is increased by half per night's service. In this way a certain amount of compensation is made for the burden on night shifts. We are also in line with the resolution of the Federal Council, which it adopted only in October. All in all, it is a good law, and I hope for appropriate broad consent. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1797	The next item is Mrs Svazek's speech, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1819	Thank you, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think we all agree here that the zero wage round for politicians compared with other amounts will not necessarily bring great budgetary added value. I think we all agree that, as we sit here, we will not necessarily get the greatest thanks, because a politician can never earn too little. But perhaps we should also consider why this is the reason why the people believe that politicians should not have earned a salary increase at all. Perhaps one should look for the cause of this in recent years, looking for the cause of how the last Federal Government has behaved in part, as some ministers have performed or have not performed in recent years. Perhaps we should talk about what has gone wrong in recent years. Because the colleague said about the Pilz list that the politicians were worth their money: Mr President, I would just like to remind you of your then top-ranking candidate, your fast-non-Klubobmann, who has offered to the public a spectacle that was not necessarily acceptable to the public image of politicians. You have to say that quite honestly. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] However, I do not believe that this is a matter of principle either. I think it's about sending a symbol that we politicians say: In times when the belt is already tight enough, we don't snap this belt with ourselves, nor do we narrow this belt even in the population. That's a symbol. Of course, at the beginning of a legislative period, one must first show whether one has deserved to be regarded as a politician at all, and whether one deserves at all the salary you earn really and honestly. I am glad that this will probably be decided by the majority. It could also be said that the SPÖ would perhaps save a bit of party money if it were to add up the salary of its German Chancellor – but not for long. That is why I am glad that the SPÖ is also involved in this hopefully unanimous decision. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: He gets a compensation allowance!]] - That's right! But what I think is a shame is that we decide on this zero wage round here in the National Council, but there are federal states in which a financial crisis has recently occurred, in which millions have recently been speculated in a financial scandal – I come from such a federal state, from Salzburg – but which refuses to do so – Salzburg refuses to carry out a zero wage round with the votes of the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Greens; a crisis-troubled federal country that must save on all corners and ends, where it cannot even be afforded that the roads are being renovatedd. But the first thing that is raised is the salaries of politicians. I'm sorry. [[Abg. Rosary: But Mr. Haslauer paid for a double party funding!]] – That’s how it is, but a double party funding was paid out. I would now like to appeal to all the parties represented here in the house, to all the club members, to make it clear in their countries what it is about in a zero wage round, what it is about when we move forward with symbolic effect and when we say: We don't snap the belt, but at the same time we want the belt to be picked up by the population. I appeal to pressurise and say that we all agree in Austria and that all countries, including Salzburg and Vorarlberg, for example, make a zero wage round. [[Call the FPÖ: They have money!]] [[Abg. Rosary: This is probably due to green participation!]] If we are honest, then the countries were the first to pay homage to, for example, the new ÖVP-Obmann and almost have already hearted him, but now, when it comes to something, now, when it comes to exactly this new style, when it comes to showing that we politicians are really worth our money, the countries now stand out at once and now it is all about nothing at all. That's why I really appeal to everyone here: Talk to your representatives in the countries, talk to them so that we can really carry out this zero wage round as a symbol throughout Austria! [[Call the SPÖ:Read with the ÖVP!]] Perhaps the list of mushrooms with the greens is a seat circle and is also talking to the Salzburg Greens, so that we can carry on a little bit. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: The people's soul turns with anger against all those who increase their own salaries in the same tone. This folk soul is damaged, this folk soul has been damaged by ÖVP and SPÖ in recent years. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I am convinced, however, that the new government, which hopefully is ready next week, will heal this people's soul again and that we politicians will eventually be really worth our money and show that there is a new style in Austria, that it is no longer going on as it has in recent years, and that it will heal these people's souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1926	The next item is Mrs Jachs' speech, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1948	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Oh, my God! It is a real honor to me that today – on the first day of my fishing visit – I can give a speech on two very important topics, which I believe reflect the new style of the future Federal Government. In order to make Austria future-fit, we will be looking forward to the next few years. decide on a number of budgetary measures. That is why it is important to me personally that we show today that we are starting the savings fund not with the Austrian taxpayers, but with the system, and that is what we are ourselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I think it is only honest if we are taking a good example here, although the Court of Auditors would have proposed an increase of 1.5%. For me, the job of the politician means more a vocation and is associated with a lot of idealism. I would also like to stress that last week, on the initiative of Mr. Landeshuptmann Thomas Stelzer, my home country Oberösterreich decided on a savings budget, which also includes this zero wage round. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the second request concerning the increase in the salaries of public servants of 2.33 percent, starting from 1. I would like to say that I personally feel it is right to carry out this as a sign of appreciation. The increase in salary will benefit 220 000 public servants, and these staff keep our public life running. Among them are not only judges and teachers, but also policemen, and all of these people every day ensure that our society is on good feet. As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I should like to take the opportunity to thank all public officials for their daily work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to the joint cooperation over the next five years in which we will work for the benefit of the Austrians, and would like to make another appeal to you: Take advantage of the responsibility that has been transferred to us, and exercise our activity conscientiously! Let's move Austria together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2017	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Service Law Novelle 2017 and Title and Entry in 1 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This too is largely accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal concerning a federal law with which the Federal Constitutional Law on the Limitation of the References to public officials and the Federal Remuneration Act are amended, including the title and entry into 2 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law amends a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[16:30:35]] 3rd. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Andreas Schieder, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 (18/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2108	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Schiedle, spoke. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Arbitrator is his name!]] That's from the old clothes collection. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2140	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! To the law and to our proposal: The aim of this bill is to prohibit and prevent the placing on the market of plant protection products containing the active substance glyphosate in Austria, on the grounds that this active substance is not only suspected, but also that it is also shown in many scientific studies that it affects human and animal health as well as the environment. This would also ensure that, in the event of doubts about health-related safety, in other words, in the event of doubts as to whether it is carcinogenic, it is also necessary to take the precautions that there is no damage to the Austrian population. Why do we believe that? – The International Agency for Cancer Research and also the World Health Organization have classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic for humans. I know there are other opinions. We heard another interesting opinion last Sunday in the press hour, namely from the President of the Chamber of Agriculture and former Vice-President of the ÖVP, who said: “So I tell you what, poison is all” if you enjoy it in excess and do not tolerate it. “But if you say poison, then I must say: only in wrong use.” This is how the President of the Chamber of Agriculture sees the question of glyphosate. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is a bit worrying overall, because if this is the way Austrian agriculture or at least its representatives are dealing with healthy food, then: good night! Fortunately, however, many farmers in Austria are much more responsible than the Federal President. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You should learn to read sinterfas-Send!]] – I don't know if the right person is reporting right now. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Now it's all serious. It was nice to shoot out with the message. This shows that the Turkish do not lack real courage, because Schultes also says: Glyphosate is a good remedy. To sum up, read: Schultes says glyphosate is a good remedy compared to other products. It is quickly degradable, it is unproblematic and, once again, it is a good means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] I think it's really worrying and dangerous, because it's carcinogenic, it's harmful, it's contaminated over the groundwater, it's also sustainable the food chain. Therefore, we in Austria should do everything we can to ensure that this false decision to allow it back in the EU is not effective in Austria and that it is prohibited in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I have read in the “Kronen Zeitung” today that Sebastian Kurz of the ÖVP now also believes that glyphosate is no longer so good. Now the colleague has to clarify in detail in the ÖVP club whether school people are right or short and what that is like. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] We also want to see it in the EIA and today we have tabled a resolution. This is interesting, because we have already put forward a legislative proposal on how to prohibit it. What the ÖVP proposes is the “classification of legal requirements”, that is, not an Austrian ban on marketing and application, but only the clarification of legal requirements. Since the Federal Government is obviously the most important sub-organisation of the ÖVP – so much to the new EIA – the most important requirement is “specific measures for the suspension” of disadvantages for agriculture, that is to say, for safety reasons an additional subsidy, even if one is not even sure whether it is harmful or not and whether school people or short is right. I'm just telling you seriously: One must take this issue seriously, and I find this to be a matter of concern. If you think of the ÖVP that glyphosate is troubling, then join us in our proposal for law, which we have tabled and which we are discussing here today. Then we do not legally clarify what is possible, but do what is legally possible so that this dangerous substance can no longer be used in Austria. That's the only goal we should have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also possible, for example, in the environmental country Burgenland: There is an award there, which is called “ecological community”. This stands for glyphosate-free care of the municipal green spaces and other things; that is the table of the community winds on the lake in the Burgenland. [[placing an award card on the speaker's desk]] Iron town with a black mayor has already recognized it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You could move a bit and not just lead people behind the light. If you want to get behind the light, you need to: Today – by the way also the FPÖ – the ÖVP has submitted two deadlines. This is, of course, a perfect foretaste, how seriously it is meant by parliamentarianism and a well-kept discussion here in the house. These are two time-limits which have not been discussed before – neither in the presidential nor elsewhere – and which are to concern the two things, namely, on the one hand, a Federal Ministry Act and, on the other, the Budget Provision. The Chuzpe is at all that one refers to the Federal Ministry Act, which in fact distributes the budgets to the individual ministries, but we do not yet know the Federal Ministry Act. We read in the paper that fundamental changes are planned. Home affairs ministers, European evenings, all these things are planned, but they just don't say what's planned, but they're already presenting a deadline proposal here. To make it clear to the public: The deadline is set for the day after tomorrow. [[Abg. Höbart: Very interesting, gel?]] There is no reference to how it is actually customary in the reasonable parliamentary process to present and discuss this in the Constitutional Committee. [[Abg. Kassinger: You want to discuss this in the Constitutional Committee?]] It is not intended to present the budget proposal at least once in the Committee on Budgets, but it is simply a matter of going through it, without discussion, without prior announcement in the Presidential or otherwise where, in order to simply create facts about a federal ministerial law that does not even know anyone, and of which we do not even know whether you can tell us in the morning, what this should look like – but nevertheless, the deadline should end once in the morning. There's never been that! The Federal Ministry Act has always been adopted here in the following or even a later meeting, after the government's presentation. Stop it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You have set deadlines in the election campaign!]] - No, you remember wrong! I'm telling you something, I'm telling you very seriously – I'd like to say it to Sebastian, too, but he's not here –: Stop it! Stop playing with Parliament's basic rules as bad as you do in every session! If you have a proper discourse as it belongs to Parliament, you will also get what you want. But that's not really how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2292	The next item is the statement by the honourable Member, for a period of four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2313	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We see that this topic of glyphosate has been affecting us for a long time, and not only us, but also the media and society. We have to keep two things quite clear here, and we have seen this on the basis of my predecessor's speech. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] One is the political will to decide whether or not to apply this active substance, and the other is a professional review. I really want to say thank you to the institutions we have here, whether this is an age or an epsa, which clearly describe the safety. We should not discuss the outcome politically, because it is technically defined, but we can hold the discussion on how we deal with it. However, constantly accusing these agencies that they are not working in this way is not correct, because that is what we need as consumers of security facilities. We should really thank their staff and these professionals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The clear public order that, of course, a large part of Austrian agricultural production lands on the plate of the Austrians is also evidenced by the fact that not only the farmers are allowed to determine and judge whether they apply it or not, but quite clearly the consumer, the customer finally decides whether to take it or not. Glyphosate is therefore in international criticism because it is a very clear symbol that the international agricultural groups have thus developed a system to generate mega-results, but above all with genetically modified plants in South America and elsewhere. In this pot I want the Austrian It is not the case that agriculture has been thrown in with it. We should be very clear about this, because this House has decreed the freedom of genetic engineering, and the Austrian farmers live that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] People in our country are getting older and healthier. It was never before in history that we had such a good standard. We can keep him and be proud of him. A feature, a building block of this is, of course, a sufficiently present and very high-quality diet in our country. I think we should also say thank you to the farmers in this sense, and not to have this shabby discussion on their backs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, the producer must do what the customer requires, and if that means: No glyphosate in the application!, then you will also focus on it. We already have production forms that go far beyond this ban, especially in the field of organic farming in Austria. But what do we see on the market if the customer is able to operate policies quite clearly with his purchase decision? How is it produced, who produces and where is it produced? – With the current market data, we have a 9 percent share of organic products in the food retail trade. This can still be increased far, and we do not need a single law to do so. This can be decided by the consumer with the purchase. With the motion for a resolution, we have made one thing, that is to say, we have opened the discussion, but on an in-depth way to ensure that in Austria we do not overload standards that are established in Europe, where we have a common market order. We must ensure that we are able to maintain our production and that we do not have our own production and are open to other markets. I would just like to give an example, namely the area of eggs and the question of fipronil impurities – that was now another topic in the media. There you have to say quite clearly: Austrian production was clean. The processed products that came in, not. Therefore, the effect is null if we do not pay attention to what trade ultimately does with the products. We need to ensure feasibility and planning security for users, control of imports into our markets and in trade we need to strengthen. This also calls for maximum transparency in the retail trade of foodstuffs in order to maintain safety for consumers. Only in this way will we be able to continue sustainable agriculture in Austria for the benefit of our citizens. I would ask you to work with us on this motion for a resolution later on in the parliamentary committees, as it corresponds to Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2388	The next item is Mrs Ecker's speech, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2410	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mr. Jewellery, it's true: People are getting older and older in our country, but we have never had as many people with cancer in this country as we currently have them. I would like to begin with a statement by one of the leading physicians in this country. “Glyphosate kills entire ecosystems in nature, the whole variety of species from insects to songbirds, and also the so important intestinal flora of man is disturbed by the pollution of the environment. Diseases are the result.” ==References== In May 2015, I was still standing in the old National Council Hall and for the first time expressed my concern about this total herbicide. At that time, only one colleague from the Greens, Mr Pirklhuber, responded to my debate. Today, over two years later, Glyphosate is no longer to be thought away from the political discussion – rather: It is on the agenda of all the parliaments. It fills up newspaper reports. It is the trigger of demonstrations and even creates a crisis, namely during the exploratory discussions of the most important country in the European Union; but why? – Because glyphosate is a drug that is likely to cause cancer and damage our environment permanently. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I – and with me many Austrians – ask the question: Why do the future government parties not take care of a rapid, rapid, total ban here in Austria? Why are they not side by side with the leading doctors, the Austrian corporate bosses – for example – the numerous municipalities and federal states, and the population? – Because they represent corporate interests! Even though it can be read in the media today that the future ÖVP Federal Chancellor now wants to use a national glyphosate ban, my euphoria is limited. We do not need a feasibility study on how we get out of the use of this means in agriculture in Austria – it does not need it – nor does it take a measure to dispel financial disadvantages. The ÖVP now sets a change of course almost every day. Those who have seen the “press hour” broadcast on Sunday know that the President of the Chamber of Agriculture Schultes has said he is glad that Glyphosate is still permitted, it is not applicable anyway. At the same time, a suspension of the financial disadvantages is required. So for me, this is a zigzag course I won't take. ==References== In September 2017, Heinz-Christian Strache – he is, I believe, not in the hall – also spoke out for a ban. I hope you stay with me. [[Abg. Rosary: He's back there!]] - I don't see him right now. Yes, I hope, dear FPÖ, you stay there, because the people's soul, as it has been mentioned today, wishes for a glyphosate ban. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Why did the ÖVP not join SPÖ, FPÖ and the Greens in the EU subcommittee in order to bind Minister Rupprechter to allow an extension at EU level in future? Why does Minister of Agriculture Rupprechter Glyphosate not mention any word in the much praised rural master plan? This, in turn, is a reason for setting up, if necessary – or I wish – a separate Ministry of the Environment, decoupled from the Ministry of Agriculture. So the situation is clear, and for us social democrats it was always clear: We don't want any glyphosate. We want a national ban within the meaning of the precautionary principle, because that is what we owe to people in our country, agriculture, biodiversity and, above all, our conscience. With our demand, we are not alone: Some organic farmers, farmers, dairy-processing farms, such as the Berchtesgadener Land dairy farm, where very, very many Salzburg farms deliver their milk, and citizens' initiatives do not want it. As I said, Spar jumps on the train. We Socialists certainly don't let these people down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by reminding one of the most famous gynecologists in our country, Professor Dr. Metka, who meant in the course of the glyphosate debate – quote: We doctors “are obliged to our doctor’s oath. And thus also the good of men. ” - Quote. We all have recently sworn an oath here in the hall, namely we have committed ourselves to acting for the benefit of the Austrians. Dear future government parties, think about it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2466	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputie Rauch, for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2488	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions and here in the hall! There will be a national level plan for the exit from the use of glyphosate in the future, that is certain! There is a plan for exactly how this exit is to be done in the future. I don't understand the excitement on the part of the SPÖ. I think you haven't found the new role in the opposition yet. To explain and supplement – as I am looking at the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany –: Who are the biggest users of glyphosate? - That's the ÖBB. They use most of the tons of glycosate in Austria at the rail body. As Mr Schieder, the managing club, mentioned it today, to inform us: We have prepared a motion for a resolution together with the EIA and we have also tabled it. So there are measures in this area. Let's go through the history chronologically: ==References== In October, together with you, we commissioned the Minister of State at the EU Subcommittee to vote against glyphosate at EU level. The Federal Minister has complied with this task – first point. ==References== In this respect, the majority of the vote has been voted at EU level – and we all live in the European Union, all of us democrats – for the maintenance of glyphosate. Now it is in our hand to introduce measures at national level, a gradual exit from the use of this plant protection product – parentheses on: Glyphosate to create parentheses. We will address these measures with commitment and commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How will we deal with this matter? – Quite clearly: We will instruct the competent Federal Ministries to take the appropriate measures and also to investigate how these measures can be implemented. Points should be the aspects of the economic impact on agriculture, processing plants, trade, local authorities and infrastructure, mainly sealed land areas, as well as the corresponding identification of risks to human health by imported food, the environmental impact, in particular taking into account erosion, CO2, alternative plant protection products and the fight against invasive species. Another point should be the setting of limit values or the zero tolerance of import products – the certification procedure is the keyword. [[Abg. Wittmann: In the election campaign it sounded different!]] . I know that you did not fully understand how Mr Schieder tried to explain earlier. However, it is in the final effect that we will implement measures in the course of 2018. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am pleased that we have jointly found a way to enforce the exit from the use of glyphosate in 2018.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2536	The next item is Mr Bernhard's speech, for 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2558	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Glyphosate ban is the subject. I know the discussion has been following us for a long time. As NEOS, we already made a very clear confession half a year ago: We have said we know that it needs an exit from the use of glyphosate, but in stages, because we do not have the right answer everywhere at the right time. I would like to address the individual areas very specifically – my previous speakers did not address them so precisely. The first area is that of households and households: There is already the Dutch model, where the sale is no longer allowed. We could do that right away. This has no effect on agriculture, no impact on public transport. You don't need to look further, we just have to decide. We have requested that it has been rejected by all political groups other than the NEOS. The second point, which is very clear, is in the field of agriculture. In the field of agriculture, although speaking with environmental NGOs, there is not yet a very concrete answer. There needs a level plan, because we don't want us to ban glyphosat the one day and the next day we come up with another pesticides, which we've researched less and whose effects we know less. Clearly, we want a Glyphosate exit, but at the same time we do not want a change to another pesticides, but actually a change to more ecological agriculture. This is not going from today to tomorrow, and we have to get the agriculture on board. The third point – and this is the only one that has not been clearly answered from our point of view – concerns the question of road safety at the ÖBB. In 2015, 9,5 tons of glycosate were used. The argument was that transport safety would not otherwise be guaranteed. The great advocate that we cannot ban glyphosate today is among us: It is Minister of Transport Lightenfried. In a parliamentary question he gave a detailed answer to the question in 2017: Are other alternative methods tried by the ÖBB? If so, what results have been achieved here? – He said: “Alternative methods with hot steam and hot water have been tested at the ÖBB. This type of vegetation control has not yet achieved optimum results (...)’. Other non-chemical tests have also been carried out there, some have not been successfully carried out, and others still lack the result. This answer came from a SPÖ ministry in February 2017, which is only a few months ago. It is already an essential issue, because the question of whether we keep the rails so far from the root of the work that we do not have any road accidents is a central issue. I cannot exchange the risk of a disease against the risk of a traffic accident, there needs to be a reasonable answer. In my view, the answer is not sufficient. The following things are clear to us: The first is a confession, and we want to use it – in our opinion – at European level to ensure glycosate freedom in Austria. This can happen in some areas already tomorrow, in other areas in one year, and perhaps in the last areas in two or three years. There is this confession. An exit where we do not know which pesticides will be used tomorrow, and do not know how our passengers will be transported properly and safely with the trains, seems very risky and not thought-out to me. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2603	The next item is Mrs Bißmann's speech, for 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2621	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear citizens! Can anyone tell me why we in Austria do not use our unique starting point and decades of experience with alternative and small-scale agriculture? Can anyone tell me why we don't hit two flies with a flap? – On the one hand, we must protect the substance of our valuable soils, preserve biodiversity, and once and for all liberate glyphosate and other chemical agents. On the other hand, we can increase the proportion of our organically produced food while at the same time strengthening our economy. Organic food is a rapidly growing market for sales. Much has already been said about the health damage caused by glyphosate. Mr Schieder, I would just recommend that you do not refer so much to the suspicion of cancer, because there are no scientific studies to prove this – there are correlation studies, but no experimental tests. However, embryonic developmental damage, disorders of the hormone system and resistance are scientifically proven with experimental studies. The health of our citizens must be a real concern to us. That is why two months ago Parliament voted in favour of the total exit, including you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. They really impress me today with a turner's master achievement, with the role backward from the stand. Don't lead your voters behind the light! Voices Please submit this request to the SPÖ! There are not a few voices that believe that glyphosate is alternativesless. To them it is said: At EU level, nine countries have already decreed themselves against glyphosate. [[Abg. Rosary: How should we now agree to the first reading?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Bernhard von den NEOS, in view of the fact that France and Italy have also completely gone out of the use of glyphosate, your argument with the rail treatment has not really existed. We need to look again at whether this is really alternative in the course treatment. In addition, more than 500 of the 2 100 Austrian communities are already voluntarily glyphosate-free, and these communities have by no means ceased to manage their fields. To your request, dear SPÖ: We support this in principle, but I am sorry that it was a red single. We have tried to make a common request, which has been rejected. I call for joint proposals in the future. Especially in the opposition and especially in the major future issues, we must work together. With regard to the major issues of environmental and energy policy, there are exciting ideas from all parties: NEOS calls for the creation of additional research funds to promote alternative energies, the SPÖ has discovered under Christian Kern the need for eco-social tax reform, and there would be the ÖVP, which wants to achieve a total exit from fossil energy by 2030. The most important question in the case of a total glyphosate exit is: What happens after the total exit? Are our farmers turning to much more harmful, other chemical plant extermination products? No, of course we don't. That's why we need to make a reasonable transition – and it's quick to create. The voluntary non-glyphosate communities show it: There are alternatives. Therefore, let us work together with our farmers who know how to do so and work out an alternative, a vision for a non-glyphosate future! Let's do this quite quickly – not gradually, otherwise everything will only be pushed to the long bank and postponed! If we have then become international pioneers in the field of healthy agriculture, we will send our experts to international congresses to show the world how it is going. Let us share our experience with others they may need, and we will reap a better, better, healthier world and a better, better, healthier Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2658	Mr Mag has spoken next time. Jörg Leichtfried, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, what Mr Bernhard said: Yes, there is that answer. You might have to quote them at the end, because one or two lines below say that other means need to be used more frequently in order to achieve the same effect. However, I can also tell you that I had a conversation with the ÖBB last week and that I made it clear that they can leave immediately if necessary. [[Abg. Rupprechter: What are you doing? What did they do?]] That's the state of affairs, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are not discussing the ÖBB today, which is why we are already discussing agriculture. In agriculture, about 90 percent of the Glyphosate is spent in Austria, which means a health hazard, ladies and gentlemen, not only for consumers but also for farmers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But this also means worse species protection and economic dependence, ladies and gentlemen, because the Group that distributes this means is not only interested in growing enough, but also in buying only its products. This is also the reason for the proposal for social democracy and for the government proposal that we have submitted in good tradition. But what happened then, ladies and gentlemen? The Minister for the Environment, who is also responsible for agriculture and, above all, for agriculture, has not responded to the Government's proposal. The Minister for the Environment is also silent about the failure of the control authorities at European level, which must be said quite openly. It is perhaps not enough, Mr President, to put something simply, instead of checking it yourself. The Minister for the Environment must be obliged by this House – not that it is a matter of course – to vote against glyphosate in the Council. The Minister for the Environment is still not saying anything about it. [[Abg. Rupprechter: You should already know that this was not in the Council, Mr Colleague!]] He's sitting inside and doesn't say anything about it, ladies and gentlemen. That's a little special! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That was already very cheap!]] What's going on now? Today in the morning I was incredibly happy, really. I thought: What about the ÖVP and the FPÖ? They're suddenly against it – it's in the paper. [[Abg. Rosary: Oh, that's it! Then it must be true!]] - Yeah, in the paper. [[Abg. Rosary: I read your horoscope!]] But then I read the request of the FPÖ and the ÖVP and it says: We are making a motion for a resolution. It should be examined what has already been tested 15 times. That's how it ends up like smoking. The Swords of smoke will not disappear, nor will the poisons in the fields with your request, ladies and gentlemen, because you do not want that at the end! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the mistake is not only in the intention, but also in the construction. I do not think it is a coincidence that all of this has happened as it has now happened. If one does not decide to separate the environment from agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, if that is not separate, the interests of the agricultural industry will always dominate the interests of human health. As future Members of a Federal Government, I ask you to: Separate the environment from the agricultural sector, otherwise this debacle will repeat every time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hauser: Why didn't you do this in the last period? Why didn't you take that? Why didn't you separate that?]] Now to the liberals – I come to you now –: [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] That the ÖVP's shareholder profits are more important than the situation of employees, we do not know only since the 12-hour day debate, in which the people in the future have to work in the intoxicated Beisl 12 instead of 8 hours, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We do not even know that the interests of the agricultural industry are more important than human health since the glyphosate debate. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But hello, hello FPÖ! [[Abg. Rosary: Hello!]] ==References====External links== September: [[a picture of the abg. Keeping tight in height]] [[Abg. Rosary: Super!]] “We say quite clearly: Yes, we, the Freedom Party, support an absolute ban on glyphosate.” – What has become of it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Before you even got up and entered the government, you have already flew twice for your electorate, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The black widow has placed her light blue – and some say: turquoise – scarf and feed you with skin and hair. Congratulations on this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2879	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has not yet been elected, an allocation of the application 18/A shall be made at the meeting in which the election of the said Committee is carried out. [[17:07:12]] 4. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal (constitution) law that amends the Federal Law on the Financing of Political Parties (Partiengesetz 2012 – PartG) and the Federal Law on Funding of the Federal Party for Political Parties (PartFörG) (19/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2918	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant receives the floor, Klubobmann Strolz. I'll give it to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2945	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, dear citizens! 209 million euros went to parties this year, 2017. 209 million euros, this is a decent barn money, as much per head as nowhere on this continent. We're by far European champions. We're at the top of the world with Japan. Even if you give away the clubs at the national level, at the federal level and the party academies, it is still 142 million euros that have flown to the parties. If you compare the 142 million with German conditions now, that is about the absolute total limits in the Federal Republic of Germany. You have to imagine: A country ten times the size of us spends as much as Austria. Now the question is: Are the German parties ten times less powerful than the Austrians? [[Abg. Little: They are financed differently!]] I do not believe this, and therefore we have a need here, because – if I get a call from the ÖVP – what I have not yet taken into account here is the whole money, which is mainly channeled to the ÖVP and the SPÖ through the preparatory organizations, especially in the context of the chambers which have an essential function here, namely political money laundering for the old-fashioned parties. It would have been our approach to stop this political money laundering in the coming period. The most effective instrument, of course, is the abolition of compulsory membership. [[Abg. Little: But this is a ghastly understatement!]] The best ally would be the Freedom Party of Austria, we believed because we gave faith to their word. Of course, this one has arrived completely in the break within a few weeks. The abolition of compulsory membership is no longer a matter of reference. They do not even have the determination to declare social partners out of the Constitution. You don't stand there either. Amazing as fit They are obvious and how quickly you forget your promises! Of course, at the level of the federal states, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this: At the federal level, you are worth “4,60 Euro” under quotation marks. This is the sum that is distributed per head. Then there are federal states, where over 20 euros are distributed per capita, namely Upper Austria. In Vienna they are never sat. In Vienna the SPÖ, the Greens in government, the Blues and the Blacks agreed. After the legal corridor – twice as much as in Vorarlberg – has been fully exhausted in Vienna, you have also invented an academic funding after the last Vienna election to take more money out of the money pocket for taxpayers. We NEOS have not accepted this money, we think this is inappropriate. This is a form of self-instruction of the political class that we do not participate in. We have made several calls to reduce party funding, in steps. We have also proposed small steps here very conziliantly. It was never anyone for it. Peter Pilz was always opposed. Meanwhile, the list of mushrooms for this is, I hear, so there are increases in the field of supporters. We'll see if the word holds here. We don't want to overwhelm you. You need your feeding cakes, you need to feed the entire fat structures. [[Call at the FPÖ: Peter Haselsteiner once asked for this!]] They're not modern, we all know that. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] That is why we propose one thing we believe that you cannot vote against the citizen. You said today in the discussion that we need to save on system costs – then it is of course important that we suspend at least the valorization. The 2012 Party Funding Act provides for the valorisation of party funding from 2015 onwards when a 5-percent increase in inflation is achieved. We will reach this leap in 2018. This would mean 1.5 million euros more for the parliamentary parties alone at the federal level. I believe, however, that in times when we have fallen real wages in some sectors, stagnating in some sectors, in times when Austria is leading the promotion of parties across Europe, we should take a good lead here and actually save on system costs and suspend this valorization. I am looking forward to this debate in the Committee. Of course, we can use the money many times, in many areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Is that consent? [[Abg. Neubauer: Yes, we will have to talk about Mr Hazelsteiner once again!]] We can talk about everything, of course. You know, every party has donors. The only difference to NEOS is that we disclose all donations. The ÖVP has announced to disclose all donations. It has published documents over 1 million euros. But I claim that the election campaign was not to be made up of 15 million. [[Abg. Hauser: An entrepreneur holds a party!]] Just as you now obviously have secret secondary agreements in the form of government, which are not supposed to see the light of the public, you have of course also had secret financing in this election campaign. At some point, as with Helmut Kohl, this will be out, and it will become very unappetizing, I can promise you!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3044	Mr Singer spoke next, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3065	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Many of us agree that the public funding of the parties is politically necessary. We all know how party promotion works in the US or, better said, how it does not function. There is no state-regulated financing of the parties there. The result is all the negative effects of dependencies and influences. The Austrian way is a good way for me. We stand for public funding of the parties. Why? – Because the parties are the essential foundation of our democracy. The parties must fulfil their specific, educational and information tasks within the meaning of citizens. Of course, for me, transparent handling of the taxpayers and, of course, strict compliance with all legal requirements is crucial. All Austrians have a right to do so. However, I think it is a mistake to call into question party support in principle. I therefore do not understand the NEOS' request, in which it is stated that party funding is “in no way necessary and superfluous”. [[Abg. Stroll: We want to suspend Valorization, it remains the highest in Europe! You must read our requests if you want to debate them!]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we have promised that we will save in the system and not among people. Today we have already set a sign of this, with the decision of the zero-paid round for politicians. In the light of this and in the light of the future democratic challenge, the current NEOS proposal in the Constitutional Committee will certainly be discussed very intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3102	Mr Wittmann spoke next. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3123	Madam President. High house! On your request, Mr Colleague: First: Of course, we will take the time to discuss this request in detail in the Constitutional Committee. The bill's not right. The jump over the 5-percent rig would not take place in 2018, but only in 2019. That is to say, the promotion of the parties will be very moderate. However, it would only be possible to replace public party support if we were to promote private support. I understand you have the hazelsteiner as the main supporter. In my opinion, this is also worrying, because of course you have a dependence on your main sponsor. [[Call the ÖVP:Eh clear!]] In your honor, however, it should be said that Mr Hazelsteiner has never attached this to a condition in the public. But I see the real danger in the following case: Mr Pierer donated 460 000 euros and said that – and now it is becoming criminally questionable –: [[Abg. Loacker: Plan A...!]] I want the 12-hour workday. That is, the money was given with the intention of changing the working time. I have been told by Mr Brandstetter, his sign of the Black Minister for Justice, when amending the anti-corruption statistics: If someone here connects a donation to an order concerning a law, he falls exactly under the laws. Therefore, if the 12-hour working day comes, Mr Pierer is going to tear it in front of the curtain with a statement of facts, because I think that is exactly what it should not be, namely that laws are bought. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Untrue claim!]] This is exactly the case, which is being fulfilled here, and you will of course see it that way. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Therefore: Hands away from the public party promotion, because that comes out when private promoters here order laws! [[in the direction of the ÖVP bank series]] [[Abg. Nehammer: Do not show your finger...!]] That's what we're looking at! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Ruf:We look at a lot in the city of Wiener Neustadt]] Perhaps the Immunities Committee has also added that we must then hand over Mr. Deputies in short, because there is a criminal record here. [[Abg. Nehammer: These are all precepts!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The second thing I wanted to say here: You have submitted a deadline request for amendment of the Federal Ministry Act. [[Abg. New builder: This is unscrupulous!]] I'll write you in the main book. [[Abg. Neubauer: The German Chancellor...600 Euro, public money!]] This procedure has not yet been implemented in the Second Republic. They leave any parliamentary practice, any parliamentary procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In this law, in which it concerns the distribution of resources, the distribution of power, the orientation of Austria, you refuse the parliamentary debate, you do not bring it into the Constitutional Committee. There has so far been no such thing in the Second Republic! You follow a path at the beginning of your period, where you determine that you will eliminate parliamentarianism. [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] I think this is a very worrying process. They have set a deadline for the Constitutional Committee until 15. to convene a meeting for the Negotiation on Ministerial Law. I invite you to a Constitutional Committee meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. so that we can finally decide on the Ministry's law and that you can tell us what you want to decide and who you propose as Minister and how you want to distribute the funds. [[Prolonged applause and bravorage at SPÖ, as well as congratulation with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] It's an invitation for tomorrow, 3:00 p.m. We are waiting for the showdown so that we can finally know what is going on in this Republic, and not only anything is being spread about the newspapers, but we are finally talking about what belongs to Parliament here, what is being negotiated here and nowhere else. [[call by Mr Nehammer, Mr Rädler and Mr Hauser]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is inconceivable!]] Leave You're not the democratic ground!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3328	The next item is the speech by Mr Lugar, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3350	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Jarolim: That's how responsibility looks, ladies and gentlemen!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Yeah, so I hope you're calming down on the socialist side now. Of course, it's true: Whoever pays, creates that no one would even come to the idea that in a dispute one should choose one's own lawyer from the opposite side and let one also pay. No one would come up with this idea. [[Prolonged calls.]] That is to say, who pays, creates it, and we have the problem in the USA, where the presidents buy business and money, accordingly. You need up to a billion dollars to become president at all, and there's no party promotion there. That means: Whoever pays, creates, and we always see when Presidents come into office, that they then, of course, make the laws that were previously wanted by the sponsors. If the SPÖ comes out here and points to the ÖVP and says that something may have been bought there, then I would just like to know what you're looking like, dear SPÖ, since the union and the workers' chamber are constantly pummeling into your crafts and constantly telling you things, and you also don't have a master who is actually represented in Parliament and laws are written into one by the union! [[Abg. Krainer: Be careful!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm telling you: In my opinion, of course, the promotion of parties is a good thing because I have experienced what it is like when a billionaire pulls the threads in the background, and I know that this is not good, because ultimately, the Members should be only one duty, namely, the citizen. [[Abg. They are the return of the mummy!]] [[Abg. Plessl: You got money from him!]] [[Call the SPÖ: You poor!]] If the citizen pays about the charges – in a very transparent form and also for everyone comprehensible – then the citizen is what he should be under the Constitution: the head of the house, and he decides what Members have to do with what the parties have to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it is like the NEOS that Mr. Hazelsteiner pays 1.2 million euros – he has admitted, 1.2 million – then my question is: [[Abg. Loacker: Saubermann Lugar explains!]] Who gives a party 1.2 million euros and wants nothing for it? [[Abg. Loacker:... takes Lugar on the list and doesn't want anything for it?- Oh, my God!]] Who's so noble? And if someone has 1.2 million too much in his wallet, he most likely spends more for the Third World or for other needy ones, but certainly not for a party like NEOS. [[Abg. Stroll:... 40 million...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] That's why I can only tell you: If you point your finger at others, come in front of your own door! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us, it is important that the promotion of parties is transparent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Of course, we can talk about the height, not a question, and we will do so in the Committee. We will talk in the Committee about whether this is useful, whether new rules may need to be made, not a question, but it is a hundred times better for me if the citizen is the one who pays and then buys, than if it is oligarchs or billionaires or anything else in the background, because as you know, I have already gained some experience and not a positive one. [[Cheerfulness of Members Strolz and Scherak.]] And one more thing to you, Mr Strolz: If you accuse us that we have forgotten our election promises or that side-by-side agreements have happened or otherwise, I wonder: Are you bright? Where did you get that? How do you know that? Have you hugged any tree too strongly that whispered it to you, or where does that come from? [[Abg. Stroll:... look bright!]] That means: If there is a government in which the liberals will participate, that is not certain yet, that will prove to be the case now. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] And if there is one, I can promise you that it will be a good government. It will be a good government, above all, because we as the only party have never accepted from anyone and only one is obliged, namely the voters, and no one else. You can cut a little bit of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3553	The next item is the speech by Mr Noll, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3581	I come to the question of party financing, but before that, something that has rightly aroused Mr Wittmann. Those who believe that they can promote parliamentary work with such a deadline request are committed to a first rank of democracy resistance. For the promotion of the parties: Unfortunately, the NEOS went out a little bit of courage. The direction is the right one, we have too much party promotion, no question at all. It is not only too high in international comparison, it is too high for Austria itself, and those who have looked at the elections of recent times – now you can really try the people's soul because it is now through a change of species. 1 B-VG has obviously been given legal power – who knows that the people's souls are opposed by this political propaganda, which is made in this country against elections and during the elections. [[Abg. New builder: From the fungus! From Peter Pilz, you mean!]] That is why we believe that the promotion of the parties should be reduced to half. That is enough for what Austrian parties – rightly publicly supported – have to do with education, education and also with party work, that is enough at Weitem. We will support this proposal with the NEOS, of course, it goes in the right direction. We will, of course, propose in committee work that we go beyond this mere suspension of valorization. There is indeed a cut made, and if you already make full use of it, with the abandonment of 1.5 percent of political salaries, to save the world and to advise the people's souls, then you should proceed more clearly and limit the promotion of parties – at least the general promotion of parties – to a level sufficient at Weitem. The ÖVP has bought each vote with about 3.9 euros during the last election campaign by its PR companies. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello?! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Bought?- Oh, my God!]] – Save your “Hello”, you know it better yourself! We came out with 1.3 euros per voice, and that was also easy enough. [[Call the ÖVP:... Excuse me!]] We don't need these comprehensive election posters, no people in Austria are interested in that, and neither is it interesting to manufacture ballpoint pens, balloons and other souvenir articles of a political nature. Let's take the step: If we reduce party funding to an acceptable degree, at the same time we maintain the public support of the political parties and set a clear limit for donations and a full declaration of private donations! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3636	The next item is Mr Wöginger's speech, for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3657	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. To finance the parties, I can only say that public funding is correct with regard to the party landscape. Otherwise, I agree with what Mr Singer said on the subject: There will be proper treatment in the committee responsible. But now that there has been a panic in the Social Democracy, with regard to requests for deadlines, and above all that is being called into a committee from the speaker's desk, it is necessary to say a few more sentences. What was right before the election and apparently moralally, cannot be reprehensible after the election. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We've got 4 on the 4th. 11 requests for deadlines from SPÖ on 11 October, as no committee has been agreed, there were far-reaching budgetary implications in each area. [[Abg. Arbitrators: To the Ministry Act?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, but not to the Federal Ministry Act!]] I also recall a law on the approximation of the rights of workers and employees; even ÖGB President Foglar took up the phone to move notice periods, so to speak, to the future for three years, because they were laws that had not been properly negotiated. [[Abg. Jarolim:... a confusion! You've got to read it!]] There it was all right, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and now it is bad if a deadline is set. – That can't be so, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is unfair!]] If a committee observer goes here now, he says: I invite you to a Constitutional Committee for tomorrow, 3 p.m., then it seems to be the new SPÖ style, and all the use of the house will be broken. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Flexibility!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] There has never been a call from the speaker's desk for a committee invitation, but this will be discussed in the presidential, and then there will normally be agreement across all political groups so that a committee agenda and agenda can be reached. [[Abg. Rosary: That didn't even make the Otto Pendl!]] So this seems to be the new style that keeps moving in, and we don't carry it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: You have set a deadline!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Finally, I can only say my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Don't be afraid! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Don't be afraid there will be a federal government that won't belong to you! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bacher and Mr Wittmann.]] If you look further into the past, you see yes, that's all there has been before. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't worry, there will be a federal government that wants to start work on behalf of the population, and wants to start quickly. Therefore, there are also these two time limits for the Federal Ministry Act and the Federal Finance Act, so that months in which a government would, as it were, be unable to act. This is the deeper background to these two requests for deadlines. We want the new, future Federal Government to be able to take up work quickly – in the sense of the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3823	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak, one minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3844	Madam President. Mr Rädler, it is enough. [[Call the ÖVP:... Hazelsteiner!]] Mr Wöginger, you can't get it back. The EIA and FPÖ set a time limit for the Committee Chairman to call the Committee, and then they complain that he is calling the Committee?- Oh, my God! So something is wrong with your view of the parliamentary procedure. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That's stupid!]] But the point is quite simple: The new style Sebastian Kurz has promised, I have now finally understood. I remember when Sebastian briefly stood in the old plenary room and explained that it does not bother him when Parliament works. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] The new style is different: He does not want Parliament to work and encourages a committee chairperson to convene a committee which he himself requests with a deadline. There is something wrong with you if you do not even want Parliament to be allowed to vote in any way in the Federal Ministry Act. [[Call: nonsense]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Completely foolish!]] We must not treat it in committee. Fortunately, Mr Wittmann has now convened the committee so that we can discuss it. However, we cannot yet discuss it, because what you are bringing in – I come to the conclusion, Madam President – is a carrier rocket. [[President Köstinger gives the bell sign]] We don't know what you want to do yet. That is a disdain of Parliament, and that is exactly this new style of Sebastian Kurz.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3955	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4018	Madam President. High house! Do not be afraid, it has been said. I want to slow down the beer tent mood in the SPÖ sector now a little bit. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The calls for action, which would in themselves be suspect of the orderly call, I am now also leaving behind. There has already been another one here on this pult, who has actually invited to anything at every speech of this House: Yes, it was Otto Pendl, he was from your group, but he certainly never invited from here to a committee. So I can't remember, but it doesn't matter now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: Finally, find out that your government has an expiry date! The sooner it comes, the better it is. [[Prolonged applause with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We want to start into this federal government as quickly as possible. Why? – Because people in this country want it, quite simply and touching; perhaps not all people, a few sitting in there too, but you also have to take note of this as a democrat, quite simply and gripping. [[Abg. Retrosozis!]] And you have opportunities to act here in Parliament to make requests for first readings, which are then called on to agree. However, we usually have a second and a third reading, which should have already been discussed. It is a normal parliamentary process that has begun, it is parliamentary means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Yes, I know, Mr Scherak, you would like to negotiate and decide on a Federal Ministry Act, especially next year. [[Abg. Scherak: Talk about it!]] I'll tell you one thing: The essential thing is that the layout should in principle do the ones sitting in the government, not the others. That would be something in itself, so the majority. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Or, Mr Scherak, do you want to set the centres for a majority? No, it's still the majority. [[Abg. Scherak: But the legislator is already us, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] Now we are right to be with the legislator, and there we stop with something you have obviously not understood from social democracy, which is a new style here: We want to have the laws and the economic foundations for a government already at the time of the fishing of a government and do not have to negotiate for months. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But not before!]] No, we don't want to. We're going differently. We're on the right track. You know who will feel that first? – The people in this country who are acting here with heart and hand and brain. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am still missing the call from Mr Jarolim, who has not yet been inside the Suada, contrary to his current habit. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is probably not there!]] Too bad, nothing's coming. [[Abg. Wittmann: This is not worth an intermediate call!]] – Mr Wittmann, you are now a very special caller. They talked about party financing earlier. – Now you can only see how in your era in Wiener Neustadt you have excluded this city with your party. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And the procedures you're already threatening some donors and where you're saying: Ah, that's what we're going to look at now, we've been talking to the Minister of Justice, and, and, and, these procedures are already running with you, who are already running in your house. [[Abg. Höbart: A scandal that was going on in Wiener Neustadt!]] That's exactly where you've seen yourself with the cheap rents in Wiener Neustadt for your party venues at the expense of the general public - -; there you didn't need a donor because you took it out of people's pocket. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Hoebart: Needle strip socialism!]] The whole thing was unreasonable until then and is being prepared to thank God. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just calm, but don't worry – so it doesn't really get polemic –: There will be no storm. No, there will be a proper government, and the Austrians are looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4204	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer, for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4233	Madam President. Of course, temporary requests are a normal tool of parliamentarianism. They are there for the following case: Since we need a unanimous vote here for committee meetings, it is true that if the majority wants to adopt a law and a minority wants to prevent it technically by blocking the committee, the normal means of the majority to enforce it, is the deadline request. But what I have never experienced since I was in this House – this is not as long as my colleague's head, he knows it better than I do – is that the majority wants to prevent a committee with the means of the deadline request and is not even willing to make a committee appointment with the opposition parties. This is an abuse of parliamentary means, which, of course, are available to the majority – but it abuses them here and uses them for purposes for which they were never intended and how they were never lived in this House, and that is the trouble in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not annoyed that a majority in this House says: We want to change the Ministry's law! - No, it's not annoyed. It is annoyance if the majority of Parliament's resources are abused and there is no proper parliamentary procedure, as has always been done here. Black and Blue I has also gone through the Committee's laborious path. I don't know what problems this has led to either. Yes, that sometimes takes two weeks or you may have to make an appointment on Thursday or Friday, but that is the way in which you live parliamentarianism, and not how to kick parliamentarianism with feet. But that's exactly what you're doing here, and that's not a good start for a government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4271	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 19/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[17:40:08]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4302	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Gerstl and Dr. Bösch, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the Initiative Proposal 14/A on a Federal Act amending the Federal Ministry Act, have a period of up to 15. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr.in Minzig and Mr Mag. Haider, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the Initiative Proposal 30/A on the Legal Budget Provision for 2018, a deadline to 15. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. Thank you. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 31 December. January 2018, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed here.
