ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e3930	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and open the 186. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 183, 184 and 185. Meeting of 7. In June 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. Deputies of Muchitsch, Dr. Nachbaur, Mag. Johannes Rauch, Rädler, Dr. Lintl, Walter Rauch, Zanger, Schimanek, Dr. Pilz, Schellhorn and Doppler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e3967	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has issued the following messages: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Justice Vice Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter, Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Hans Peter Doskozil is the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is represented by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. [[09:06:47]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4022	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:06:58]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4134	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by Mr Matthias Strolz, colleagues in relation to the failure to reform the education of the nuclear short-term government: To urgently treat non-irresponsible power policy and party tactics on the back of our children. Call for urgent request will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live by ORF 2 from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and by ORF III in full length. I will interrupt this meeting until 12 noon. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4178	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear members of the Austrian Federal Government! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:01:31]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on the failed education reform of the nuclear short-term government: Non-responsible power policy and party tactics on the back of our children (2253/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4214	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2253/A(E). Since it has now been distributed to all the delegates, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4443	I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Dr. Matthias Strolz for the reasons of the urgent request and inform him that his speaking time is 20 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4465	Madam President. . I am not sure now whether I should wait for the colleagues of the EIA, or is the educational issue not so important that they participate here? – No, that’s a serious question: [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That doesn't pay off!]] [[Abg. Vetter: I'll tell them!]] Will the MEPs of the EIA still be closed, or will they stay away from the meeting at 60, 70 per cent? Can anyone give me information from the ÖVP? That is a serious question. I just want to give them the chance. – You know, we only have this special right to convene a special meeting once a year, and we have pulled it today because the issue of education is important to us. - I see they're yelling in anyway. Then I'll give them a little more time. - Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Government! Dear citizens! Today, we NEOS have convened this special session on education reform, because it is important for us to move in here, something goes further, because we have – as likely quite a lot of citizens of this country – experienced as a very unworthy spectacle in recent months, a very unworthy spectacle of announced agreements, of refusals, mutual accusations, accusations and other embarrassments, and because NEOS is a concern that we still have decisions here in this legislative period, and I know that this is a matter for many people in this country. The educational reform debate at this stage was initiated by Minister Heinisch-Hosek exactly three years ago. It was then much discussed. It was also discussed a lot behind closed doors. As opposition forces, we have always agreed, we need a transparent public process here. Unfortunately, there was no such thing. Finally, it was unclear what was discussed – including in the two-thirds – how the talks were conducted. That is why we have decided, Federal Chancellor, that we withdraw NEOS from this special right, which we have, to convene an urgent special meeting. We only have a shot at the national elections we use today to highlight a subject that is particularly important to us: education. Why is it so important for us to move in there? - Because we all feel, in education it doesn't work well enough. We have focus schools – Mr. Federal Chancellor – you have visited one of them this morning – of which we know that the directors say: A third of my graduates will go to the labour market service at the age of 15, and they have this prospect for a lifetime. A third of my graduates have little certainty in their lives, but as young people with 15 years of age, they will be permanent customers of the labour market service. They will be very difficult to find jobs, they will be hard to realize possible other dreams, whether this is a family start-up, the acquisition of a home or another larger acquisition. These people won't succeed. And there are high-focus schools in Austria, of which we know that this applies to just one third of the young people there. This, of course, is distressing for everyone in this country. I think that you don't even have your own children to recognize, if you're searching: a young person with 15 and these prospects, we can't lean back and say: business as usual. It can't be that we fight ideologically in educational debates and we don't go on in the matter, but we finally need solutions. Of course, we need to look at the results of educational comparisons. We know, Federal Chancellor, 23 percent of 15-year-olds cannot read properly. We know that they lack the armor for an apprenticeship, for a secondary school. We know that every year between 5 000 and 7 000 young people say compulsory school after nine years: You'll never get me again! I'm not doing anything more to you, I'm not teaching, I'm not doing any school! These 5,000 to 7 000 people, who come each year, have received a message in the Austrian school system: You're totally inadequate! You're a mistake! You're not used! You're a deficit on two feet! This message is given to many thousands of young people every day. Tens of thousands of young people come out of school unhappily every day – we know that too. These are the conditions we do not accept NEOS so much, where we say: Let's put all the ideological scoops aside! Let's go into a genuine educational debate! And above all: Let's go for solutions! Thus today is a day with light and shadow. There was a press conference at 11.15 a.m., which announced an agreement between SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens. The light is: Yes, if you make proper pressure, even as a small parliamentary group – in brackets: still a small parliamentary group – you can bring in movement! You know, the first thing we've been looking at is school autonomy. We have delivered the concepts for this, and we have never stopped putting pressure here, for example with our extra-partial platform to flower talents!, where we have said: Let's invite all the forces! I can remember a conversation with Harald Walser in a café at the beginning of the legislative period, where we said: Let's do this together! It was not possible to create an extra-party platform together, but we did it with other forces from civil society. This is also the commitment and commitment of NEOS to continue to respond together to questions that are urgent. Where's the light? – There are some points in this comprehensive legislative package, which I think is good, really good and overdue, for example that transparency comes in, more clarity, information on the question: How are the billions of money that flow directly to the countries for national teachers from the educational budget? We do not know from most federal states how they use the money. There was strange information that many hundreds of teachers are released, often in a party-political environment. - We just don't know. This money's sifting. I hope that with this educational reform, if you want to call it that way, more clarity comes in. So I'm sure I can see light. Why, Mr Bundeskanzler, can we not go along with NEOS in this reform package from today's point of view? And: Why have we made our protest to the Federal Chancellery clear today? – We built a school class there symbolically, and there were two super-dimensionalally large stilts between the students’ ranks on the road, and they had a color: red and black. And this is and that remains the problem of the Austrian school: Also with this law, with this package of laws, as you want to send it on the journey today, it is once again established – and this is something we cannot carry with NEOS and will never carry along; no one can ask us to carry patterns of structural corruption, and I think this is the determination – that the national leaders, the country leaders, can make themselves the head of the new education directives. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] I quote from the bill how you send him on the journey today: ‘The national law allows the head of state to preside over the education board as president.’ So: You can define party-political access to the school system by national law. I think that, like all the experts to be taken seriously in this country, is fundamental! These princes are not in the class with a schoolbook, no – you all know it and should have a bad conscience – they are in the class with the party book. You're there with the party book. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Our children don't have anything of that, they don't have anything at all! Why do the Heads of State want to prolong this comprehensive access to the education system, and why are you prepared by ÖVP and SPÖ and, unfortunately, you too by the Greens as an uplift holder to further ensure power-political access to the school system? Why do the ÖVP and SPÖ need? – Because they have very powerful predisposition organisations, whether they are teachers’ unions or others, and they do one thing: They intervene in direct orders, they intervene in school assignments for teachers, they intervene – including the national leaders themselves – in investment decisions, school building renewals, new construction of schools, new school locations. And they want this possibility of intervention in the future. That is why the head of state, whether he has a dew or not, makes himself the head of the future education management under national law. And it goes even further: “The competent Federal Minister shall appoint the Education Director in agreement with the Head of State on his proposal.” That is to say, the head of state makes himself president of the new education management, and under him he can also enforce who will be the head of education/education. You will now hear very word-rich – dear citizens, listen carefully! – why everything gets better anyway, objectivization and so on. But then I ask: If it were so objective, why does the head of state have to complain, why must he have the last word? I want the quality to decide! The post-contract decisions in the Republic of Austria, in the private sector, usually also in public administration, I hope, will be taken along the question: What can you do, not along the question: Who do you know? The most important question for the majority of people – not at all anymore; I know it's better on the go, but not fast enough – orders from school directors are still available: What color does she have? What color does he have? And then there's the law inside. “The appointment of the educational director, i.e. the operational head/operator of the education management, is limited to five years. Re-orders may be made.’; Attention: ‘If no agreement is reached, the head of state may for the time being entrust a person with the function of the education director.’ That is, valued citizens – you have to let that break on the tongue! –: This is the full kneefall of you, Mr. Kern, and also of the new head of the ÖVP in front of the national leaders. They have laid a foothold on the heads of state, and without the heads of state there will be nothing going on in the field of education. And that's the bitter one. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Harald Walser, I don't understand that the greens are carrying this. There are numerous interviews by you, also by other green top officials, in which they are expressed: We have clear conditions under which we go. – Yes, something has moved at the level of the model regions, and we also think it makes sense that we come to these model regions. But since January 2016 it has been your clear condition: The educational directorates must not come as they come, and it must not be the power of the princes of the country. – But he is in the new law, as I have, that's him. Now you've been swirling around a little bit in the legal formulations, but it's true! You write here: As this is done precisely with this educational director, that must establish its own federal law. That is, you decide here a law that we do not yet know what the following law will look like. But here it is – beware! –: This Act of Follow-up, this ‘law may only be declared with the consent of the countries’. – The next kneefall, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, Mr. ÖVP-Chief Kurz, the next kneefall in front of the national leaders! They have had, in an earlier version of this bill, that the first twelve months and then another six months of the head of state is the determining force. And now, in the new proposal, it gets even worse, because you say there must be a federal law that cannot be declared without the consent of the countries. That is to say, the heads of state can block ad ultimo here, also the next and the closest federal government, the next and the next Parliament, if we take note of this. Dear Green, that can't be your serious! With all love of power, and all political parties tend to have power: One cannot sacrifice his principles for it. That's not okay. I hope that at least the blues do not agree to this law and that the Stronach team does not agree either. [[Abg. Lugar: And what about the NEOS? Are they also inclined to power?]] I think we have all fought bravely together and should not make education policy a policy of power in the future. We can't get down here today! What else can be said about education reform? – It has not been much left here of the great announcements of three years ago and of the great concept of November 2015. I recall the original quote of ÖVP State Secretary Harald Mahrer, who spoke of a “almost horny” reform to be implemented by June 2016. Of course, it was not implemented. It was then in October 2016 once again a puncture on the table in which many meaningful things were inside. These have died over the widest distances, they are not included in this reform package. Wherever it becomes important, you leave out. Everywhere where party politics can be further cemented, there you are empathetic and carved on paragraphs, paragraphs, paragraphs. What don't you have in this package? – For example, elementary pedagogy is completely hidden. After decades of ignorance to kindergartens, early childhood and elementary education, there was a window of attention. But it is clear that we need more attention for the little ones, more attention. If almost a quarter of the Austrian young people under 15 years of age cannot read properly, I have to take this either as a citizen – or I'm looking for counter-recepts, solutions and implement them. This 23 percent, which cannot read properly, will probably also exist in the future. One thing is quite clear: If we go together to a school class of between 6- and 8-year-olds, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, we can say, if I dare to predict that, at a precise look at about 80 percent probability at this age, who will not be able to read properly by these students of 15 years of age. [[Abg. Kickl: Could this have something to do with immigration?]] If that's the case, we'll have to do something before. I dare to say that we could already find it in kindergartens. There's something we need to do! We cannot say that we do not have to take that much money into our hands for kindergartens, and it is not so important for education in the field either. Of course we want NEOS the same appreciation, also the same level of education for kindergarten teachers as for school teachers, because with three, with four, with five, there is as much going on with the children as at eight, nine, ten, at 13 years. They all agree internationally. We're absolutely there. All these things didn't come, they'll keep you guilty! The nested teacher’s right is further cemented. We have a common relationship with the Greens: Let's do an annual work-time model for teachers! Let's go away from this pea count with 150 different editions and even more, all of which are, of course, negotiated by the black teacher union! Teacher service law is the country's biggest innovation brake in the field of education, because it is not possible to illustrate much. – You didn’t attack it, not a centimetre, because it’s about your clients, about your friends, fronts, and you don’t intervene. It's not about the children, it's not about the parents, it's not about the hearty pedagogues, it's about the teachers' union, and I think it's wrong. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have a lot of appreciation for the teachers' union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] And if I'm a minister of education, then they play a central role, that's not a question. It is true, however, that it should be a negotiating partner, but not the last one. Mr Bundeskanzler, this is a web error of the Second Republic that a government party, in particular the ÖVP – also the new ÖVP in brief – always leaves the last instance decision on education policy to the trade union. That's wrong. They're supposed to discuss, but don't decide. They're not supposed to be the last divorce. This is fundamental because they are an interest for a profession and not a representation of interest for those who should be at the centre of the school: children and young people. What's not inside yet? - The folk school. Of course, we need more focus on folk school. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have recognized this, at least in accordance with today's press release. We need learning coaches, we also need social workers, we need school psychologists. We need to get closer to the OECD section – and in this regard I fully support the trade union – and 10,000 new forces in assistants so that we can get into a differentiated teacher's career. Teacher/teacher is the most important profession in this Republic, and that is why it is so important for us to take this profession seriously, but also, for example, to introduce full school autonomy, also on a human level. Of course, a school management must also be able to say goodbye to those teachers who, after 25 years of experience in education policy, are false in this profession. It's not about their and fire, it's about doing a proper personnel development and saying: Attention, can we do something to improve your work? Can we do something together, find a way together? And if it doesn't improve, you should also be able to say goodbye. That is the case in every profession. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, I come to the end of my remarks: For these reasons, I have tabled the motion for a resolution as it stands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We need a real education reform and not a questionable school administration reform. Our proposals are on the table. I am looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4605	On a preliminary opinion, Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Reported at the heart of the debate. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4627	Madam President. Dear Members of the House! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the televisions! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Strolz and the NEOS for this initiative. I think you used your shot well by dedicating it to education. In fact, it is probably the biggest question of the future that we have to answer together. They will also see in the remarks that we are more different in the way than in the destination, but I think we should also consider the question here as to how we are moving on more determinedly. To this end, I agree with you and today I can say that this is, of course, a question that we have to answer together, because we know that the future of Austria depends on it. We know that 20 percent of the population are affected, but 100 percent of our future. 20 percent are the children, but they now represent in full what our country will go to in the future. We also know that, especially in the field of education, we must belong to the European Summit, because in a country like Austria with the high standard of living that we and our parent generation have developed, it is crucial that we preserve it and that we understand that we need to be better than other countries and can't be cheaper than other countries. The second important point from my point of view, when we talk about education, is not only the question of how we manage to build the best system in Europe, and how we manage to ensure that the children who have completed this actually find open doors everywhere, but, when we talk about education, we also talk about social dimensions, because in Austria, there are several weaknesses in the education system – efficiency is one of the big ones. [[Abg. Bösch: After 40 years of socialism!]] The second very serious weakness, however, is that in Austria more is inherited than in almost all other OECD countries. That's a state we can't take. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: After 40 years of socialism, that's true!]] Mr Strolz, you pointed out: I have indeed been to a school this morning – once again, I do it regularly. I'll talk to the teachers, to the director. This is truly impressive, because when we talk to the people to whom we are retorting our future, to the teachers, even to the experts, we can see that we need very pragmatic, reasonable solutions and that the constant ideology debates that are being held there are certainly not going on, even the ideology debates behind which very short-sighted lobby interests stand. That is why I can give you absolutely right on this point too. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Interesting! That's exciting what you're giving of yourself!]] In my view, today is nevertheless a good day for education policy, because I consider the step of the reform of education here in Parliament to be a significant step forward for decision-making. In the substance, we achieve greater freedom for schools, for teachers and for directors, and this is the focus of my view. We also have more transparency, and I also think that we can achieve a significant reduction in party political influence, although there is no complete reduction; I also give you the right to do so. But you have to realistically look at it: They call it a kneefall, but if we had not tried to go through this reform before the election, I think we would not have achieved anything. We would have stood by empty hands, and afterwards we would have incorporated and manifested a system that is at least worse than that which is being debated here today in this House. In this sense, I am glad that we have achieved this together. I would like to thank colleagues from the ÖVP for taking a step forward. I would also like to thank the Greens for their support. I know no one at the table has reached 100 percent of what he wanted, but I think it is certainly a progress that we can well represent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is included in the considerations that we have already implemented in the past. In particular, I should like to highlight the school of the whole day. I think this is a very important educational point, especially because we are moving forward the expansion of all day schools in a radius of 20 kilometres for all children in Austria by using the bank levy for this, so this money is going into the education sector. I would like to mention another important point, which Mr Strolz has also mentioned: compulsory training and the guarantee of training until 25. You have decided to have the training requirement up to 18 here in the House. The AMS is working consistently on implementation, as there is also progress. This is an absolutely important issue, because we lose – as correctly quoted – 5,000 to 7,000 young people who never get a chance to live a successful life in our country again. Against this background, I also think this is an important initiative which I would like to mention at this point. Once we deal with the challenges – and, as I said, one hour, two hours in a school lead you to them clearly – then, I think, there are several points that we have to do with. I am completely d’accord with regard to kindergarten. This is crucial because there is the foundation for education careers. I am convinced that we should implement the measures we have proposed as soon as possible. That means to me: We need a second free-school year, and we need comprehensive childcare facilities, not as child-care facilities, but in understanding that the educational facilities that our children have to prepare for school. The problem of integration is only too well known to all of us; of course, this is also the focus of language adaptation. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you think of the Muslim kindergartens in Vienna?- Oh, my God!]] The second major challenge that we must address is the question: With what effort do we actually operate our school system? – We know we have inefficiencies in the administration, and we need to eliminate them. We must be aware, however, given the dimension of the challenge we face: In the context of the question of integration, we will not be able to avoid investing significantly more in our schools, and we will be able to take in significantly more teachers, much more accompanying staff, social workers and psychologists. To give an example: In the school in which I was in the morning, 270 children are; over 70 children there do not have German as a mother tongue, German can only be very painful. If we leave the teachers there, if we leave them alone with the challenge, then logically they cannot achieve optimal results! It's sunny. We're overrepresenting the teachers. They're almost inhumane. We have to create the political conditions so that they can work with sufficient resources and meet what we expect from them: to bring our education system to the top of Europe. The third point is a very big challenge: the task of digitization. From my point of view, we need to set up a broad initiative here. We have proposed to equip all school classes with tablets or laptops and all schools with Wi-Fi, not because it is a matter of somehow distributing gifts to our children, but of course there is the acquisition of technical skills. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: After producing even more loss of reading!]] But what's much more, much more important: I am convinced that the questions of individual promotion, the support of skills, the elimination of weaknesses in the future will be quite different, because digitization allows us to think about it in a way that we have never known before, and ultimately we have not even dared to think about it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Have you read the studies?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I grew up in the Kreisky generation and was one of the first beneficiaries of my own schoolbook. It was an immense progress that was given to the children from all social layers the opportunity to learn with new school books, and today it is the same with tablets, smartphones and laptops. That is crucial from my point of view. [[Abg. Kickl: Have a seat in private schools!]] We know that this is a social selection criterion, and indeed not all of our children have access to these technologies and thus to the educational opportunities that the Internet offers. This is not a plea for replacing basic cultural techniques. Reading, writing and computing will remain basic techniques, but the opportunities and opportunities that lie in digitization will revolutionize our education system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Ah, but!]] Therefore, from my point of view, the following is important: We need to invest in the expansion of kindergartens, we need to provide more teachers and accompanying staff, and we also need to consistently invest in digitalisation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I met a computer science teacher today, which was really impressive: He has developed a computer program with the children to control robots. The fascinating thing about the colleague was not only the incredible joy he radiated in his work, in dealing with the children, but also impressed me that he actually invests his vacation, his weekends so that he can keep the teaching in this form. That is why, I believe, we need to ensure at a broad level that it does not depend on individual initiatives and pursue a strategy ranging from hardware to software and, above all, to the training and preparation of teachers. If we are talking about the need for teachers to be at the centre of our considerations, we must also make it quite clear that we have to upgrade the profession. When I go to a school, one of the first things I do is look into the teachers' rooms at least once. This is always a healthy experience, because what you see there is, of course, that teachers there have no ideal conditions to prepare the teaching, and against this background, the investment in infrastructure that gives teachers the opportunity to develop their ideas is a very important point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] This also leads to the question: How do we make it possible to inspire more young people for the teacher profession? I am not of the opinion that the figures which the colleague of the teacher union has today mentioned are one to one, but the fact is: We face the challenge of providing sufficient resources to teachers for the future of the school. If we want to do that, that means: We need to attract the profession, and then we must confess that the teacher and the teacher's professional image must be given a higher priority. The consequence of this is that we need teachers to have the opportunity to actually spend more time in education and with our children, and to face less paperwork and administration. With this we are once again on the topic of accompanying staff, because even today I have had the experience again: Teachers are provided, but not, for example, psychologists and social workers needed to be able to discuss school problems with the 70 children whose parents can hardly handle German. For these resources there is too little money, too little commitment. Our task will be to ensure that teachers can better devote themselves to their teaching tasks. Administration, the next issue: They decided on action 20 000 in the Committee. I am truly grateful for this because the fight against unemployment, especially the elderly, is crucial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that these people who are affected are not easily returning to work. It is now practice that once you're over 50 years old, you write dozens of application letters, but often you don't even get an answer. We have said that we want these people to have the opportunity to return to the labour market. We want to shape it in such a way that the social benefits are as big as possible. This is also a huge chance for the schools, because we want to talk to the President of the City School Council in Vienna today to ensure that such people are accompanying the schools to relieve the teachers of administrative activities. Vocational training must become more permeable. Each of you who has been involved in education policy has had contact with the great Teacher For Austria initiative. Many of these young people who are willing to devote part of their lives to this initiative, go to schools, work with the children, pass on knowledge, have told me that they would like to stay in schools. What must be our task? – To increase the permeability of the system, to enable people who do not have classical teacher training to be given the chance to teach in our schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are two other points to which I would like to draw attention, in addition to what Mr Strolz referred at the outset: When we talk about education, we talk about kindergartens, the public schools that are particularly affected and need our support, and we talk about the secondary schools. However, I am particularly concerned about training. As far as this is concerned, we have made significant progress in recent months, and this is really important, because if we have the hypothesis that Austria must be a world leader in the education sector, then we know that there is a segment where we are already: That's the education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From my own practice, as the head of large companies, I can tell you: This is what decisively affects our competitiveness, which distinguishes us from many other countries: that we have best-qualified skilled workers in Austria. Not only can we be proud of this, but we must build on it, for that is just as the future as what happens in schools. For me, this means that we have specifically expanded the number of vocational training courses – I hope that the countries will participate in them – we have tried to improve the language qualification of apprentices, we have tried to improve the preparation for the degree examination. All these are first important steps to show young people in the country that teaching offers a great career perspective, a great future. But from my point of view, more must come, and our goal must be to invest for an apprentice as much as we are willing to do today for a gymnasian. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I must come to my last point of content: If we discuss education and break our heads all over the education sector to adult education, then of course we do not get to talk about the future of universities. From my point of view, there are two considerations that are important: The first is to make funding security for universities out of the specific situation, because they need financial planning security. But the second thing, and we also have to admit, is: We know that our university sector today is not as powerful as it should be, and we are experiencing that the number of drop-outs is increasing, and we have also experienced that the care relationship has become worse and worse in the end. Against this background, we have the responsibility to break our minds about how we can lead the universities to a good future. But, like we did at school, it's important, in my view, to start by asking: What is our strategy, what do we expect from the higher education sector? What kind of universities do we have to have at all? How does this relate to the vocational colleges? What do we want to train? Do we really need a medical university in Upper Austria? Do we need two faculties within the same city where – just a stone's throw away from each other – the same subject is taught? I am concerned that we are consistently answering these questions of the future and then saying what the sector needs to look like, and then we also need transparency as to how much money we spend. We have decided to create 5 000 higher education places in mathematics, information technologies and other technology sectors. That was a three-quarters year ago, but to this day we do not have a clear picture of how it should go. That is why I think we should proceed as if we wanted to buy an apartment – in order to make a simple comparison. First, we need to consider: Do we need a subway connection? How many rooms do we need? Should the apartment have a balcony? And we should not go to the bank first and ask how high the interest rates are for the loan. This is also what I expect from university policy: an agreed strategy that will lead us into the future, because we are talking here about a reform that is incredibly important, which should not be skinned and not broken over the knees. It's important to know: We have always felt that adequate teaching of universities is essential. We have always known that there must be no social access criteria. There must be no social selection at the gate to the universities, but it is also clear that we need new funding models that the funding of the university is a suitable instrument for which I fully recognize myself. The crucial point will be: If we do it professionally, we do it neatly, so that in the end we can strengthen the sector and not just cut off a topic from a list. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude: For us, the education sector is the crucial issue of the future. The success of our country, the success of Austria will depend on how well we in this Area are and how well our children are prepared for further life. This strategy that we have to come to the world's top and belong to, we should pursue together, and that should be beyond dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4822	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, each speaker has a maximum of 10 minutes of speaking time in the debate. Mrs Gamon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4849	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the debate over the last few weeks is exemplary for what citizens of politics actually do not want, and that has been the case in education policy for a long time. It is always about political reasoning and tactilism, without debate or debate. Expert opinions are consistently ignored or taken here to argue and justify completely different things. Red and black are blocking each other and, as collateral damage, still include issues such as university funding in the debate, because it is already meaty. A genuine and courageous reform has long been blocked by the heads of state, and now we are talking about a minimum consensus in which what is left of the will for reform has been imposed on the target line. All this is happening on the back of those who have no lobby and cannot defend themselves, namely the children in this country, for whom few speak here. It is a truly unworthy and strange spectacle of political quality which has been presented here. A real autonomy stands and falls with a real depoliticization. Matthias Strolz has already made it clear: This reform is not being done. We have pushed this minimal consensus, which remains, back and forth for weeks between particular interests, and at the end of the day nobody is actually talking about what is really in this reform and what is really being changed. Three years of negotiations have obviously not been enough to bring about a proper, courageous and hearty reform. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that the university funding is not supposed to be so tricky without strategy, look at anything, I have to ask you: Where was the strategy for this reform? For three years, only a school administration reform was needed. It can't be either. I hope that this is not the claim we make to ourselves if we want to reform education policy. I hope that is not a claim we make in the classroom. If one comes with a spot and the next time with a four, then you don't say either: It's gotten better anyway, I'm sure it's going to be! With the Greens, you get the feeling that the topic of model regions was only about making a media score with the topic of total school. I think it is very good if Vorarlberg can be accommodated as a model region, but that we now have the rule that still one third of the parents must agree, regardless of whether they have participated in the vote or not, that is, that every absent vote is a no vote, is yes, I think, not what you actually wanted. [[Abg. Maurer: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's not true!]] - Okay, well, I'm excited about what's coming. I also think it is a bit funny from parliamentarianism that shortly before a special session, it is quickly announced on the APA that something has been agreed upon. [[Abg. Steinhauser: And only because of the special meeting should we not have agreed?! Your greatest pain is that we agreed and you can't pull off a big show here today!]] This is, I believe, not what we want to do here in Parliament. Moreover, it cannot be that the heads of state are taken in this way and all perfectly pain-free sit here and say: It's always been that way. The heads of state have always been there, and that doesn't bother us anymore. We no longer know how fatal that is, what that means for the standard, what it means for schools. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who is “we”?]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Don’t always say “we”!]] We have no sense at all of the consequences. It is simply so taken – this is the best proof that depoliticisation has not yet happened. Matthias Strolz read it: “The law allows the head of state to preside over the head of education as president.” – That’s completely absurd! And there's absolutely nothing out of the ÖVP. Nor are ministers present because this is obviously not an important issue. Josef Moser said that it would not be possible to decide if the education management were to be guided forward by the national leaders. Mr Walser, you, as an educational speaker of the Greens, said that this solution was better than what we had before. – But that is not enough to meet our demands. I would now like to address a few of the things that the Federal Chancellor has fortunately said: The issue of all day schools, for example, sounds very nice, but also in this context a large part of the budget has been given into the hands of the national leaders. Why? - I don't know. There is no reasonable reason for this. Most things are taken in here completely without need. A real explanation, a content, why this is useful, there is no – but obviously it does not need it either. It seems enough that the heads of state simply have the pouvoir. We have been over for a long time in the Austrian education administration for things. The fact that Teacher For Austria is being taken as an example is that I find it really weird and very provocative, because at the next meeting of the teaching committee it is decided how to make it easier for cross-border beginners. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have obviously not read the opinion of Teacher For Austria on this law, because they criticize very strongly what is coming. In their opinion, the new law does not help any cross-border beginners to get to schools. And as we heard today in the early days, there will be an acute lack of teachers in the next few years, which you could perhaps solve or bridge through cross-entry. But this law innovation does not make it possible – quite the contrary! In addition, you mentioned the unis. It is really a tragedy that the SPÖ has taken this issue in. In contrast to the educational reform, a forward-looking direction decision could be taken by deciding how to make the university funding useful in the future. This works when it is no longer about simply giving the university an intrusive global budget into its hands, and then you let the units see for themselves how they somehow manage the money they don't get through with anyway. Rather, one should focus the students and assume how many students study at a certain university in each of the individual subjects. On the basis of this, the budget can then be drawn up transparently for all parties involved. In my opinion, this would be a very sensible system. In particular, contrary to what you say, Federal Chancellor, this would be a strategy that was missing in the reform of education. I would like to briefly explain to the citizens what the problem is, what it is about when we criticize the fact that the princes of the country are being taken over and transferred a responsibility which we do not believe is due to them and which does not make sense: This is because in the field of education there is a division of competence between the federal government and countries that have no reasonable justification. I haven't heard a single one yet. I would be interested in what arguments red and black actually have and why they are, that this is a meaningful construction, or why we still leave it that way. Why have we not taken this reform on the occasion of eliminating this problem once and for all by giving the responsibility for schools, for education into one hand? No one can answer this question. The Federal Chancellor has also not addressed why the national leaders are in this draft law. - Why? We are not even able to answer this question of why. [[Abg. Anger: Don’t always say “we”!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: If you are not able!]] It would be enough for me if there would be a dubious argument, then at least one would have the feeling that one would like to ask Parliament and give the honourable Member something – but no, it is not even worth you to invent any argument that would be appropriate. That's not what our schools deserve. They deserve a proper, courageous reform that completely reforms the system from below to above. A reform that puts the system on new feet, with which we have the competences for education in one hand and which also offers opportunities to see what is happening in schools. There should be a change, so that we have at least a little transparency in the distribution of costs; especially in the case of the national teachers, there is still no right of guidance so that we can even control what is really done with the money. This means that no transparency, no comprehensible quality management and no evaluation from the federal government – all this will not continue to be possible with this reform. Another major problem – and this is how it works in Austria – is that the government parties are likely to sell this reform as a big throw. They have done something, they have reformed education! – After the reform, it must be clearly stated here before the reform, because this reform is nothing but the most vital thing that should have been done in recent years. This is certainly not the educational reform that we think would really enable young people to live a self-determined life. We want to offer young people all the opportunities in life to get to where they want to go in order to develop their talents in order to be able to live their own responsible lives. – But this is not an educational reform! I hope that day X plus one after the educational reform will be that day when we start to work on the next reform, namely a serious educational reform. Should it be in the election campaign that this wipe is sold here as a serious educational reform, in which things are solved that make schools better, then we will continue to vehemently challenge and explain what has been done here, namely nothing, except that we now have a new level of administration in which the heads of state can appoint themselves as boss – really, crazy! [[the speaker shows a document]] Congratulations and thank you for nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e4995	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5016	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Now I would have said almost Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Kickl: That's gonna be all right!]] Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say a few words to my previous speaker, Mr Gamon. Mrs Colleague, you should have changed your speech in time. Granted, the time was very short, because the Federal Chancellor spoke right in front of you, but used a very comprehensive education concept. He has explained in detail what has happened and must continue to happen – for our children and young people who are at the heart of our education system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What happened?]] [[Intercom calls at NEOS and FPÖ.]] He has used a broad concept of education, from elementary education to school to higher education. But above all, he mentioned our apprentices in particular. They are the experts of the future, the backbone of our economy and society. Especially in this area, the apprentice reform package has done an incredible amount: Increase vocational schooling and many other measures that bring up the teaching. So please: Listen! You also mentioned the whole day school package. I would also like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal Government for the fact that a billion out of the bank levy, which has reversed discount payments, are in the field of education. This is an investment in the future. I am sure that in the field of education these funds bring much higher yields than in the banks, which is therefore a very good investment, that is fine money, especially in connection with all day schools and, of course, also our specialist universities, which are also taught accordingly. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] They have also referred to the topic of cross-border beginners' position. It is quite important to have valuable powers in our school system as teachers. Come on. They will be in the teaching committee tomorrow, and we will decide on a package that will make it easier for cross-border beginners from various sectors to work in the education sector to work as teachers. Rarely, I have to say, I have enjoyed a special meeting as much as this one. [[Abg. Kickl: You hardly notice! It won't be like that!]] That is why I would also like to thank the applicants, because they give us the opportunity to report on a comprehensive educational package. The title you have chosen is not quite correct, because today we have put on track a very successful educational package. We still have to get through the parliamentary process, but I am already thanking everyone who has contributed in order to make this possible, because it was a serious birth. It was incredibly difficult to conduct the negotiations – already within the government and, of course, with the opposition parties. I would, however, like to thank all the opposition parties for their willingness to talk. Thank you very much, of course, for the valuable contributions you have made by the Green Group. These were valuable clues, but of course you also – and this is part of the policy – showed cooperation and consensus. One has simply seen that the common is put before the end of the separation. And this is so important in education policy. [[Call at the FPÖ: It won't be better!]] That's exactly why I'm looking for all of you to put the joint before the parting – in the sense of our children, in the sense of our young people! In classrooms, in kindergartens, the future of a country is written. Here, please, we all have to pull one strand, ideally everyone at one end. You have turned this reform pact down a little underestimated as a government reform package. I think it has been achieved by removing the political bodies – political body, national school council president, vice-president. I know you have a little bit now – how should I say? [[towards FPÖ]] – Lunte smelled because you yourself also come to the position to occupy these posts. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is therefore a little attached to political functions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Incredible, yes! Thank you for being head of state of Lower Austria!]] But that's where you should jump over your shadow. As has been said, the political bodies are abolishing the role of an educational director, an educational director following an objective tendering procedure, with a clear qualification profile and not as previously in the status quo on the call of national leaders, without qualifications requirements. That's going to be done. The principals of the school are also ordered in a uniform manner throughout Austria according to a transparent procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] And – and that is quite, very important – the resource distribution, the valuable resource distribution is made more transparent. In addition, the anchor for opportunity indexing was laid for a social index. It is also important to me to stress that the maximum number of school students of 25 is still a target size. There is no one taking away anything, but there are resources where they are particularly needed to support our children in the best possible way. In this sense, I am looking for all of you to cooperate, and please present the joint to the parting party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5129	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Dänderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5150	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Matthias Strolz, you know that education issues are always ideology and power questions. They are inevitable. [[Abg. Lugar: It doesn't have to be that way!]] – It has to be that way and it has always been so. Since Platon has opposed the egalitarian, rhetorical education concept of the Sophists to its elitist, philosophical, this is so. I could now cover the whole educational history, but that would be a semester lecture, so I can't do this here; but it's no different. The duty of responsible politics and education policy is to question its own ideological position, which always exists, not to see it absolutely, not to make it an irrevocable dogma, but to adapt it to the necessary circumstances, on a solid ideological basis. [[Abg. Lugar: The ÖVP can do that!]] That's to do, and that's what the ÖVP has done now. With this educational package, the ÖVP has for the first time departed from the dogma that there should be no common school, but only gymnasies and NMS or earlier primary schools. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Good to know!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo Kurz!]] From this dogma, she's gone by allowing model regions. It allows model regions. The fact that the impulse has gone from the west of Austria has several reasons. I can say that I have also contributed to the fact that this position has been taken and that this dogma has been adopted, because it is easy to see that there have been developments, especially in the agglomerations in recent times, that one has to take account of. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Right in the conurbation centres?]] And that's where the ÖVP moved, she's making it possible now. They shall do so with the involvement of those concerned, who may vote in favour. At the end of the day, this was a difficult item for negotiation. But this is very well suited to the idea of autonomy, which generally carries this educational package. The fact that the teachers' union is massively involved is due not only to its own interest but also to the interest of the students. For example, the trade union has made massive efforts to ensure that the maximum number of 25 students remains or can only be very difficult to avoid. I think this is a valuable and important contribution that you should not simply make. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just as it is necessary to take into account the massive social changes that have been made in the field of school, so is the case with the university, and I really speak firsthand. I have experienced the development of the university for half a century. I started to study in 1969 and occupied all positions up to the professor, rector and then also science ministers in this field myself, I really know that. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I mention only the most important changes at universities, there would be much more to mention. The most important changes are a rapid, explosive increase in the number of students, a high internationality of the university, which in Austria is particularly aggravated by the fact that we now have extremely many German students who want to study with us. In Innsbruck it used to be a few people in the winter semester who wanted to go skiing in particular. In the meantime, extreme numbers of Germans have fled from the Numerus Claus in Germany, where the entrances are very limited, and we have up to 80 percent German students in psychology in Salzburg and Innsbruck. So there is a high level of internationality, especially a strong inflow of German students. The third thing, which is often neglected, but very important is: Our studies are becoming more and more regulated, hidden. This can be lamented, but it is an inevitable international development. This training brings with it that it is no longer negligible how many people push into any subject, but that it is extremely important that only as many people study there, as one can look after, and can carry through the individual courses. You used to go to a Mass lecture or you didn't go, and at the end there was a big test that you just had to deal with. In the meantime, the study has been divided into many, many individual events, in which I, as a student, need a place each time and as a teacher, have to make every effort to provide adequate support for the students. These are the most important changes, and we have so far only taken insufficient account of these important changes. Although we have given the university more and more staff and more money, and they have responded to the masses, we still have very unreasonable care conditions in many subjects, which causes us to have enormous quality defects there. Obviously, I don't need to do that. But above all, we also have a very high number of drop-outs, which is unfavourable in many ways. It is a waste of resources, but it is also a break in the life of a young person. A consequence that I do not now take very important is, for example, our position in international rankings. But since the Federal Chancellor calls for us to be better in the international rankings, I say: Yes. The care conditions in the international rankings often have a very high weight, in the recently published QS ranking about 20 percent. All of this means that we absolutely need access schemes, access management. I was delighted when I was able to read in the Federal Chancellor's plan A that this should come now. It says that we need access schemes that we need a study choice regulation. I was very pleased and thought that the SPÖ would now also take into account the new developments and say goodbye to the dogma of a completely irregular admission to study. I seem to have deceived myself, because today I hear: We need to get through the entire university system first. It would be similar to that when it comes to education reform, we would first explore the whole school system, how many private schools we have, how many schools et cetera, and only then can we take some reform. That's not plan A anymore, that's the plan, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and I'm very disappointed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since 2010, we have been working on a model for study place financing, for a new university funding. We'd be close to implementing them now. There are the most accurate models. There would be a chance to finally finance universities in a transparent way for students, and this is suddenly being pushed to the long bank. First, we need to know what else God knows so that we can do it at all. So I'm very disappointed. I'll never take a note to the speaker's desk. Today I have taken one, a note on which are the parts of Plan A, which you, Federal Chancellor, have formulated with regard to universities and on which above all the title sheet also depends. [[The speaker shall keep the title sheet mentioned above up to date.]] And I'm asking you with your cover: What are you waiting for? Let's do it now!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5270	Mr Mölzer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5291	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Federal Chancellor! When I listened to your words today, I asked myself whether you were watching your own advertising and propaganda videos too often. Free tablets and internet expansion, that's all beautiful and good, but it would be a joke to believe that it will help 25 percent of young people in schools who can't read meaningfully if they have a free tablet in their hands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another one, Mr. Bundeskanzler: You mean you can't have an ideology debate here. That is true, only that you are constantly doing this with the Greens, namely to hold ideology debates here, or to go ideologically into implementation now, on the back of the children. We're not going with that. We should stick to the facts and not pursue any left utopia. Another chapter in this whole of Causa is of course the ÖVP. I can say something ironically ironically to colleagues from the ÖVP who have proved that they can also fall by lying down and who have shown that they are obviously happy to give up their last principles when it comes to getting something out of there. Sebastian Kurz shows as “Basti Fantasti” that he is obviously allowed to do everything. My dear colleagues from the ÖVP! They will probably wake up with headaches, for example, when it comes to the overall school. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know if you have looked at this solution exactly in the shortest part of the last one quarter of the hours, but it will be so, or it may be that up to 50,000 or 45 000 students in Austria will become experimental rabbits in these overall school model regions. These 45 000 students are basically required to try out a school model which I believe has failed internationally. Today, Minister Mahrer spoke a lot about trying, as I have heard, at the press conference. There won't be any of that with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the actual reform: We have clearly signaled this in the last months, in which we – thank you for the roses! – have negotiated seriously. That's quite right. We've had intense discussions. And we signaled: Yes, we also see the educational directorates as a small step in the right direction, but that is not the case, Mrs Grossmann, that we wanted to defend any party-political grain or anything else. Instead, we wanted to maintain democratic control over the new education directives, and we wanted to ensure as much transparency as possible. What you're going to do now is basically: democratic control out, more trade unions inside, proporz in, so that basically only the respective head of state and/or the respective Minister of Education/minister have the saying. That wouldn't have happened to us. You're doing it now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Among the other points in this educational reform package, which we have welcomed in our approach, is for example the school autonomy, which we say: Yeah, of course, that's more of it. We all know, however, that there is already a lot of possible, which is not necessarily new in the legislative package. Another point was the school cluster. We also said: Yeah, why not? We need these in order to save small schools and small rural schools. We also said: This must, of course, be voluntary when it comes to larger schools. Now, as I hear, comes the possibility of the so-called mixed clusters between federal schools, i.e. gymnasia and NMS, for example, or compulsory schools or folk schools. This is another measure that we reject, because it would in turn prepare the general school and enable the entire school. There's no such thing as this with us. And I'm excited about what this will be like in the future, whether we're actually going to save a elementary school or a small school with these school clusters. That's what we're looking at. We will, of course, keep going. A problem with these school clusters and also with the existing system is minority education, where we in Carinthia have the problem that even teaching-free directors and directors will have to prove cluster managers from a certain percentage not only Slovenian knowledge, but also education skills at all. We clearly reject that; we would not have had it. That is why we will, of course, be against it. On the NEOS proposal, ladies and gentlemen, There is, of course, a lot of the right thing, Mr Strolz, which you are getting to the point. I say once, even a large part of these 14 points that you point out when it comes, for example, to detaching the right to teach, when it comes to strengthening public schools, basic education, in elementary education, on the right wheels. However, you have ruled out a major question which is very important to us in the overall question of education reform, namely the issue of immigration and integration, which you have completely forgotten and ruled out, which is what you are in the middle of a sad community with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens. [[Abg. Strolz: We demand a social index!]] This social index is too little. There would be a very simple and simple measure, which would be quite clear to us, namely the introduction of a corresponding language survey, a German requirement. That means you have to be able to have enough German in order to be able to follow the class. The ÖVP has once announced this, but you are just announcement sources and not implementation grenades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, there are no German classes for those children who cannot have enough German, although that would be absolutely necessary. Vice versa is intended to enable those students who can have sufficient German, a proper teaching, a proper training. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope, of course, that the ÖVP and the Stronach team will agree. I do not know if there has been a rethinking of the Greens and the SPÖs. We have indeed discussed this positively in the negotiations. In addition, I hope that we will have a majority relationship here in the autumn in order to be able to re-establish what you are fabricating with the educational reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5389	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mölzer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5456	Next word: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5477	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members on the government bank! High house! We have now heard the opposition reactions, if I may emphasize this as a co-initiator of this law. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And first of all, I can say: It is today a beautiful sign of a Parliament that is working in a pre-election campaign. It is a sign of constructive cooperation, it is a sign that something can move forward in this Republic if one does not go towards total refusal, as unfortunately is also the case with you, at least for a long time in the Freedom Party. We have put a model to the vote, among other things with the model regions that can be found in Austria in the future, which the Austrian education system can significantly develop. We have to weigh laws, and that, Matthias Strolz, I'm actually used to NEOS, that they first read what's on, weigh it, and then get a position. It's a very simple question: Is it better or is it worse than before? If we look at this law, it is clear that it is already about miles beyond what we have now. An example: Model regions. That also explains why we have fought for these model regions. It is about the fact that in the current situation, children in the public school are stressed that children take psychopharmaka. [[Abg. Lugar: These are the parents!]] Let's talk to pediatricians. Children in the folk school get psychopharmaka because they don't deal with the stress anymore. There are children who get re-help in the folk school because they are told that they must necessarily go to the AHS. It is not so much about what the children learn in school, but rather about having good grades. – No, that’s not our idea of school! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] We want to take a decisive step forward. We want a high-performance folk school, but we want a folk school that does not unnecessarily produce this stress of much too early separation from children. That's the big step we're taking now. I'm allowed to be a little historical: It was last Otto Glöckel in 1919, who tried to enforce it. He failed at the time. There were then a few more attempts – all failed. It was an ideological discussion never ended. And now we have the opportunity to get out of this ideology trap and discuss it objectively. Mr Denzel rightly referred to the following points: We now have ideal conditions. It is the western federal states, in which the ÖVP is not just influenceless, but has for decades the power that has taken central steps forward in the alliance with the Greens, and it is the city of Vienna. I've already heard, too. The Burgenland is also part of it. By the way, there is FPÖ in the government. The head of state has announced that he also wants a model region common school. I do not know whether the liberals in the Burgenland will then do as the Freemans did in Vorarlberg, namely vote in favour of it, or then there is a government crisis in the Burgenland. I don't know. I don't care if I'm honest. This is a crucial step forward, and we are happy about that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It is also a possibility to move forward in the Austrian school system in the same way as we finally have to get out of the average trap. The Austrian system is built on the average student, and that and that there is not. They are individuals, and we must have a system in which we can also address these individuals individually. And for that, among other things, our model region. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hear that de-party politicization has not succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we took steps. And I'm totally admitting, Matthias Strolz, I'm absolutely right about you: It's not a green system we're building now. If we could build a school system on the green meadow, build an administration system on the green meadow, it would look different. That's not a question at all! But what it is all about is to improve in the context of the potential – and here we have a framework in which the federal states now have very central power – in this context in line with the federal states. And that's where I'm asking: Is the old system better where the head of state and the head of state were automatically president and president of the State School Councils? Automatic! Is it not better if we now use educational directors after a tender procedure, after hearing, after public discussion? Or is the old system better? It is, I believe, no question that this new system is clearly better than the old one. We also need a little recognition for this, even if it should be difficult. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] More transparency in direct and direct orders: It was foreseen that four people could do this in the silent chamber, two from the education offices, two de facto from the union headquarters in the Teinfaltstraße in Vienna. That would have been the reality. It has come out that we have hearings at schools that the people concerned can speak, that there is also the possibility of opinions in these schools that there is a right of insight into the application documents. We have made it clear that we have more transparency, and we are very proud that this has been achieved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] Since the mix clusters are small here: I myself was director of a very large gymnasium with over 900 students. Vis-à-vis I had a vocational school, 400 meters away then a primary school, today a New Secondary School. What is against the fact that these three schools are collaborating, that they are using synergies, that there are uniform procedures for considering: Where can we take the right steps together that benefit all of us? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is obvious that such clusters are not only for the schools concerned, but for the whole region, because at last you can make a regional education plan from the folk school to the Matura. To do this, we need the mix cluster. [[In the direction of FPÖ:]] And your panicic fear of the common school, if we subtract it, then very few arguments remain that speak against such mixed clusters. Next point, the chance index: Yes, we too would have liked to have a clearer, better system; for example, we would have liked to have implemented the model presented by the Chamber of Labour, which is no question at all. But now, after all, it has succeeded in securing what is available to special pots. This is not a matter of course in the Austrian school system. Integration stopper II, language promotion, all of this is now being fixed, and we can finally promote targeting those who urgently need it, students with language deficits and so on. Like that in Germany, in Hamburg, we would like to make language promotion from kindergarten up to the middle level, where they are needed. No one will prevent us from doing so in the future. I see my speaking time is coming to an end. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's good!]] We have achieved a whole series of other very, very positive steps. I thank the Minister for Science, I thank the Minister for Education. It was constructive and, as I believe, a large part of the public has come along, very hard negotiations until the end, but today we have a common result to present, which, I believe, is worth all of us honour, which is an advantage for all of us, especially for the children at our schools, a result that brings us a very important step forward. It's a good law we're bringing in today. It sets the course for Austrian schools in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5575	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5597	Mr President. High house! I can still remember 2013 when the then Minister of Education took up her office. At the time, I called for autonomy for schools in the committee. At the time, everyone was opposed to autonomy, and the Minister said that autonomy among her is guaranteed not to be imaginable. This has changed over the months and years. Meanwhile, the word autonomy is in every mouth, and that is good. This is a good thing, because I also argued at the time: What does politics know better about local needs than local teachers? The answer is: Nothing. Teachers and directors know best what is necessary on the ground and can also respond accordingly. That is why it is also to be welcomed – not because it is perfect, quite the contrary, not because all that lies in the arrogance is finally getting better, but because it is a first step in the right direction. This is about as if we had a building that is more and more wrong, and the government would decide to support this building so that it can't continue to tend. That's exactly what we have here: We support this building educational system so that it doesn't get worse at least. No one can have anything against it. Nevertheless, it is of course not a reform. The foundation of this educational building is therefore so bad, because it has been devoured by political influence. That's why this building tends. Now it is a good idea to back up this building with this referendum, but we need to renew this foundation to slowly rebuild this building, and nobody is willing to do so. Many will probably ask themselves now: Why make this minimal reform, which is going in the right direction and is welcome in many approaches? – It is right as far as transparency is concerned, even with regard to the payment of teachers who have until now been totally opaque, where we did not even know who was being paid for. That was the case in the past. There is now transparency, and that is certainly to be welcomed. If many here are wondering why we are not able to renew this foundation and finally remove this political influence that makes this foundation so weak, then I can only quote the ÖVP now. I know that's mean, but I'm doing it anyway. Mr Däderle of the ÖVP has gone out of here and has said what is at the heart of the problem. He literally said here – I quote –: School policy is always an ideology and power question. That's what he said today! That's the problem. After I made the call: “But that doesn’t have to be so!” he said: Yes, it must be, and it will always be. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go!]] School policy is a question of power, and this is the problem we have here in this House: That individual, especially the ÖVP, see school politics as a question of power. That's why you don't want to renew this foundation and say goodbye to the school. We don't need you there. We don't need politicians in school who believe they know everything better. You don't need the school to make the school better, you need or, better said, abuse the school in order to exercise your power policy in the school, and to pay the whole to the children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] That's what it looks like, and that must stop! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I also lack this debate on education. We are always talking about how we can improve the organization, but no one is talking about how we can make a better education. If many say that we want a common education, we want a common school, then it can't work without breaking the head over how to improve the teaching! [[Abg. Daughters:... Teacher Education Reform!]] Do you know what happens if we simply integrate the gymnasia into the New Middle School, what you and also the Greens want? - The blacks don't, but we're leaving them out. [[the speaker points towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Mölzer: The Blacks too!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The blacks are there? It would be interesting to know why. But the whole thing comes from the SPÖ and, of course, from the Greens, that they say that we just give the gymnasium to the New Middle School. You know what's going on? The chain is the weakest where the weakest link is, we know. Now I bring an example that I bring again and again. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek will probably experience a Déjà-vu. Although she has always told me in the Committee that I should not always give the same example, I am bringing it back today. I'm sure you'll be happy. If you drive on ski week, the first thing you do is on the first day to divide the children into different service groups. There are top riders, then this goes downwards, there are several groups, often five or six groups, depending on how big the school is, and down below are the beginners who drive the stamp flight. Do you know why they do that? Because if the top driver is together with the one who can't ski, both are frustrated. The top driver is frustrated because nothing goes on, and the one who follows behind is frustrated because he can't keep up. The same thing happens in school. I have two children myself. My daughter is just making the jump to the gymnasium with the corresponding pressure of performance – we have already heard that today – and that is also good, and my son has already made it to the gymnasium. Why is it so important to me that they both get to the gymnasium? Because we have no internal differentiation in middle school. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Sure!]] We're all together, then the weakest is together with the strongest, and both are frustrated. If we do not manage to shape the inner differentiation that the one who is particularly good in mathematics does not sit with the one that is particularly bad in mathematics, then that does not work. What you're doing is an ideological charge of the school; and with this concept, all in an overall school, you're going down. That's the truth. On the other hand, we want internal differentiation. We want everyone to be encouraged according to their strengths and each one to be picked up in their weaknesses. But that doesn't happen, even with this new model. That's why I'm saying: This agreement is good in the administration, in the areas that are now urgently needed, there is a lot to be done. However, the basic question is not solved by this agreement, which means: How do we get everyone to be picked up where they stand? If you already dream of a total school, then there is the already Austrian school: the folk school. The primary school is an Austrian general school, and it does not work. [[Abg. Kucharovich: Of course she works!]] Why the folk school doesn't work? Because there are huge differences at the end of the school. At the beginning of the primary school, which is an overall school, all are about at one level; and after the total school folk school there are house-high differences. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As long as you don't manage to put an overall school like the folk school on reasonable legs, you won't succeed later. The only thing you do with a total school is to level down, and that can't be good. Also, I am not a big friend of the fact that the children of ten years of age have been divided, but in the system we have at the moment, a merger only leads to a levelling down, and no one can want that. That is why, if we want to move something substantial, we must make the general school of folk school work, and nobody is ready to do so. Why is there no restricted education in the folk school that makes the children independent of their parents? At the moment it's like this – I see it with my children –: The children come home with a lot of domestic exercises, have a lot to learn, and in truth it depends on whether the parents sit down and pick up all that has not been taught at school at home. And then the spray separates itself from wheat. There are parents who do this, they have the time for it or also the financial resources for the recovery, and there are parents who don't have it, and then the children stay behind, and that's the problem. [[Abg. Wöinger: You take the time!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] So if you want an overall school, then see that the general school of folk school once works, and don't make an experiment at the expense of the children who simply don't develop as they could! That's why I'm saying: Yes, we need a reform, especially in the administration, but also in the payment of teachers, or also in the case of the 5,000 problem teachers. We also need to talk about this at last: There are 5 000 problem teachers who are passed on from one school to the next as a hiking ball and are let go of our children! Nobody's talking about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gusenbauer hunter.]] – How do I know there are 5,000 problem teachers? Who knows? Precisely, the union has said that. The teachers' union has said that there are at least 5,000 so-called problem teachers who should actually look for another job but remain in the system. Let's talk about it! But you're not ready for that either, that's the problem. And why aren't you ready? – Because the ÖVP is blocking here because the teacher union is blocking here. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That's why I'm saying: The foundation must be strengthened, politics out of school! Let's make a proper reform, and let's go up again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5759	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5780	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! The speakers of the government parties were not particularly enthusiastic when they defended this “education reform” – under quotation marks – outside. Then Mr Walser came out and made it quite enthusiastic, because, of course, he also has to explain why the Greens are going here now. The Federal Chancellor himself has said that we are doing this now so that we do not cement the status quo, and it will be better in the future than it is now. The question that concerns me a lot is: If we make a little referendum now, doesn't there even exist much more danger that this status quo will be cemented and then nothing will go on? This is similar to that of the time when the Greens voted in favour of pension privileges and said that we are trying to abolish them. The only problem is that these 9 600 € pension privileges are now also in cemented. That's the big question you have to ask yourself. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] True, I do not dispute that it is most likely better than the status quo; the question is only whether one has not stopped negotiating too early. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The big question about the whole process, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is: How has this referendum ever happened, and why has there been people in recent years or at the beginning of this educational reform who have really believed that there is now something big that has been convinced that we are creating a meaningful educational reform? I'm surprised because it somehow assumes that you wouldn't know each other. You know how SPÖ and ÖVP have divided their country over the last 60 years and according to what motto they have worked. It was always the same thing: We split up the country – “share and rule!” is the motto –: I do not criticize the privileges of your officials, you do not criticize the privileges of my railways; I do not criticize the Chamber of Labour, for this you do not criticize the Chamber of Commerce. One system is therefore how SPÖ and ÖVP have been dividing this country for 60 years. Unfortunately, the second system mentioned Mr Brosz earlier in his interlocutory call. I found this very exciting. As Claudia Gamon has asked why the Heads of State are in the law at all, the Greens have taken it seriously. firmly screamed in: Because they already had the competence to do so already! This is the second system of SPÖ and ÖVP: Because it's always been like that! The fact that the Greens are already arguing with “because it has always been so” is at least difficult for such an important reform. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] The problem is: Even though I really put good will to those who started with it, namely the Minister of Education Heinisch-Hosek at the time, and that everyone believed, we are doing this now, so it has always been clear that at the end of this reform, those who always come up when it comes to serious reforms: These are either the red or the black possessors – in which case it is more the black ones – who come out and say: Not now, here I am not continuing, and that is why no meaningful reform comes about at the end. Mr Grossmann went out before and said that everything would be much better and in the future we still need that and that, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has also said what is still necessary, but the big question, which always stands in space, is: When's that finally coming? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It is clear to me that such reform processes are difficult and that we have to negotiate them for a long time, but if I push them out again and again, then I come to a minimum consensus, with which, of course, many social democrats, when speaking behind, are not particularly satisfied, and vice versa, because it obviously hurts them to say goodbye to the gymnasium. The question is, when will this great reform finally come about? These are small steps that are being taken, but it is not the big reform that we would finally need in the field of education. The whole thing was pretty clear from the beginning. Although the Federal Chancellor has said that we need to talk much more with the experts who go to schools, and so on and so on, they have missed out on major rounds of negotiations during this entire educational reform. It was not involved in the opposition in many areas, the necessary experts were not involved, the school partners were not involved. Now I understand that some of the trade unions do not want to be involved, because it is difficult to negotiate with them, but it is nevertheless necessary to involve everyone in such a large reform project and not in advance with an agreement that was “almost horny” at the time to go out with such a score and then look after what can be negotiated for years. We know that, of course, in the official group, which was originally employed, the representatives of the federal states were explicitly inside, the heads of state, the real possessors, were explicitly involved, but those who could do something seriously, were not. That's why I don't need to be surprised if at the end nothing comes out of here. What still surprises me extremely is a very essential question: How can you, as SPÖ and ÖVP, work out such a programme, a reform programme, a referendum over years, and then, if you know in advance that you need a two-thirds majority to do so – and I assume that you knew it – go to Parliament, on the one hand, to the Greens, on the other hand to the FPÖ, on the other hand, to whom a finished paper claps and says: So, we need someone to vote in!Unknown term type: "%s".? The fact that little improvements have been made on the last few metres by hard negotiations of the Greens does not dispute anyone, but the great throw has not come out. This is not an accusation to the Greens, but to SPÖ and ÖVP: If I first have to spend some time working hard over years, then lay down this phrase, at the end still have to negotiate, and the greens may add a small part to it, that in this way a large two-thirds majority cannot come about, it is a bit logical. It is totally incomprehensible that reform processes are even set up in this way. It is clear that at the end nothing meaningful can come out. If you always have the same result in the end when you come to Parliament with such a finished paper and take parliamentarianism a little more seriously in advance, the corresponding stakeholders don't take much more seriously, many more people involved, then it is clear that only such a small thing can come out. We don't think that makes sense. There are small improvements inside, but in order to finally bring on the journey the great reform that we would need long ago, we would have had three years now. Unfortunately, this has not come out. It will not come out in the future, because it is now most likely the status quo is inzemented, and all of this on the back of our children. I don't think that's fair, and I don't think that's useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5889	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e5911	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refocus the debate on the most important group, namely children and young people. What do children and young people want from school? How do children and young people actually see education or what does education mean from a child's perspective? – As a SPÖ club, we have made a series of events to do so, and I would like to quote some children who have clearly announced their wishes there: I would like to make my own decision; I would like to work in large and small groups; I would like a mix of loud and quiet in class; I would like to move more; I would also like to work with animals; I would like to learn from the Internet; and I would just like to be able to decide a little more. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially in order to meet these wishes of children and young people and to get closer to them, I say openly to you, these have also paid off for years, very even. The pingpong there was done for the first time. This is good, namely good for 3 million children and young people, for 1.3 million pupils in Austria. No man, quite honestly, could endure this here and there, this clumsy. The ÖVP has changed its opinion several times. Once “checked” was “checked out” during a press conference, then not again. This performance, quite openly spoken, was embarrassingly embarrassing, and I hope that this embarrassment is now a thing of the past. Today, we are entering an educational peg. Years later, the education reform ended up in Parliament with today's own initiative, and the implementation went into the very near future, from our point of view also the implementation into the classrooms of children. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why do we see this, why is the reform so important to us as SPÖ? – Autonomy keyword: Children and young people are more and more defining the teaching because they are invited to design them in classrooms in the way it fits children and young people, clearly in line with all educational goals, but methodically precisely in line with their pupils. It is important at this point – I wanted to become a teacher myself – that we let children speak more strongly. They really know the very best, by means of which method, even through knowledge and curiosity, they can acquire the learning material, even by simply trying out and making mistakes. With the educational reform, we enable education from a child's perspective. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The speech is really a low point!]] Tag Pedagogists as Designers: Sometimes it was so that as a student or teacher, I had to be lucky to get to a very innovative school location, perhaps also equipped with a school attempt. [[Abg. Wöginger: There are 80 percent with migration background!]] In the future, renowned school tests will be possible in all schools. What do I mean by that? – It is simply possible to design teaching autonomously, meaning spaces for teachers and directors. I am then no longer dependent on whether I have a great, innovative location, but as a teacherI can establish innovative ideas and projects in class together with the students, and I get away from the dryness, which is sometimes very repressive for one and also for the children and young people. So, dear teachers today and tomorrow: Your creativity will no longer be limited! Keywords Cluster: It is certainly great for the students when different types of schools exchange, when schools cooperate better and their competences also spread better, on the one hand in the administrative field, on the other, but also for teachers themselves as an expert exchange. I consider this cluster education to be a great deal over all school types, and I also see it as a great opportunity for teachers and students. Another key feature of education reform is: It's a foot in the door for the common school. Best-practice models show whether in Austria, in South Tyrol, in some other countries. The vehement appearance on the other hand has now found a first end, and I find it very, very exciting that Mr Lugar is the folk school as a bad common school, because I believe that no one is surprised that the folk school does not produce two types of school but is a school type. Let's go on with this! These 15 percent are once a foothold in the door, and we will continue to work in the SPÖ to ensure that the common school will finally become reality. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: foot in the door!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But that's not in the package!]] Indeed, if you were to ask the schoolchildren in the fourth class of folk school if they wanted to separate themselves from the friends, the question would not answer anyone with Yes. The key to all this is to learn from one another and one another, whether children of children, teachers of teachers, teachers of children or children of teachers. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are you talking about?]] It is precisely this framework, and the educational reform gives this framework, we only have to live up to it. For this I invite everyone very, very cordially, not only to leave it in theory, but to really live up to the educational reform for children and young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6037	Mrs Jank has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6058	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What lasts a long time has become good today. But the success is well known to many fathers, and one of them is Matthias Strolz, for which he has made himself himself today. Should be, Matthias, there we are quite open and generous! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No mothers?]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: The mothers are us!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Language also creates awareness!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Thanks for the support!]] With this package introduced today, we decide to make a major change in the school sector with this reform of education. We are not setting up anything new, it is not as if school could be founded on the green meadow, but we are continuing to develop our school system, and we will have to continue to develop it in the future. Therefore, there is also some word message: Yeah, when's the next reform coming? – Of course, further reforms will have to be made on a regular basis. Society is developing and society is changing, and this House has the task of responding to such changes, because otherwise we would be done very quickly with our work, because then – on any subject – we would have made a good law once and thus done our work. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a few points very briefly from this package of measures. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I don't want to hear it!]] The flexibility of group and class sizes makes it possible to address pedagogical needs more specifically. The allocation of resources is not under attack, but – quite the contrary – is now legally anchored for the first time, because it has not been so far. School teachers can decide whether it is more pedagogical, for example, to form two classes of 13 for 26 students each, or to work with 26 students in principle, and to use small groups, for example, for gift promotion and funding instruction. We are expanding quality assurance, including teacher feedback, which was above all a requirement of the student representation that we are implementing here and that we are going to meet. The function of the headmaster will be strengthened, for me a very central point of this reform package. Only those who have responsibility and who are transferred responsibility are also able to implement this responsibility. As you probably know, until now the headmaster had no personal responsibility, he had to implement all that the school community committee, i.e. the community of parents, teachers and students, had to do. Cluster formation has also been addressed today. Yes, I am firmly convinced that cluster education has its advantages, especially in rural areas, because it allows us to receive micro-schools, which is an essential and important concern for the students, but of course also for the families who live there. Flexibility will also be visible during teaching time. The 50-minute pedagogy will be open in a pedagogical way, it will no longer be a rigid pedagogical framework, but it will remain a calculation for personnel management and also for resource allocation. Ladies and gentlemen! The basic principles of the education system have already been laid down by the government parties in a presentation to the Council of Ministers in November 2015. This includes setting up model regions to test a common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. Of course, the ÖVP continues to stand very clearly on a broad and differentiated education offer. [[Abg. New builder: You lie in your own pocket!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No one believes that!]] There is hardly any other country that has such a variety of offers, and it is of course for us that we also receive this offer and adapt it to developing needs, but – and this is the difference to what has been said so far in criticism – not beyond the minds of those concerned. We ask parents and teachers whether they agree to the introduction of a model region for a common school, and we design school together. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We know what this is worth! Tag Heumarkt!]] It is important for us to ensure that everyone can get back to school as much as possible, because everyone is behind a school system, students can get the best possible education. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you for the constructive discussions, but I also thank the Greens for the willingness to contribute to this educational reform, and I also thank the FPÖ, which has expressed many thoughts, many of which have also been incorporated into the educational package. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We stand at the gymnasium!]] Unfortunately, the NEOS have agreed to this process. It's a shame that it might have been wise to stay with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6204	Next: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6226	Mr President. Estimated government! High house! The big throw is actually not that. It is the end of a long – I would almost say – mourning game that has gone over this legislative period. When you look at the historical development of what has become of our school in recent years and what it has once been, this is a sad game for me. The primary schools in rural areas have worked very well, the differentiated schools in primary schools have worked very well. Students who were not so talented in mathematics or in English had the opportunity to work from a performance level forward, for example from the second stage to the first stage. Others who were hard to deal with could be picked up and possibly returned to the first level of performance with effort. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What about the third stage of performance?]] In the urban area, the primary schools have no longer been able to function because the proportion of those children who do not have sufficient German knowledge is disproportionately large. We have been pointing out this problem for decades as a Freedom Party and have said: If someone regularly enrols in the school system, he has to master the German language. I can't teach as a teacher – I'm also a teacher in the main profession – someone who doesn't understand me. This demand from us to introduce language start classes is and was a good and basic logic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This demand from us has been smiled for years, we have been defamated. Instead, one has gone here and has tried to abolish what has worked, namely the Gymnasias, now over the model regions, and has introduced the New Secondary Schools. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: That's not true at all!]] In the New Secondary Schools, it has been claimed that in German, Mathematics and English, in the main subjects, more hours are taught, each two hours in addition, a total of six hours in addition, in part also with professors from the gymnastics field. This was the concept of the New Middle School in order to cover this loss of performance specifically in the urban area. However, these new schools have also been implemented in rural areas, although there was no need there. So, what happened? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: nothing!]] That is what the Court of Auditors has found: More money has been put into the system school, and the benefits have been reduced rapidly. Not even one's own claim to offer more hours in the main subjects of German, English and Mathematics and to teach them with high school professors has been fulfilled. This now goes so far that these additional six hours can be used, for example, for more gymnastics, depending on the school. Under the rule, the New Secondary School, also after the Court of Auditors' calculation, has remained the most expensive school form for students with 7 600 € per head, while the most affordable school form with 4 900 € per head is the gymnasia. And what works – and I don't understand the ÖVP – you're trying to get rid of model regions now. This is a massive decline in education policy, which will not lead to better performance. What's going to come? – Through the model regions, through the possible global introduction of the New Secondary School, of course, much more private schools will grow out of the ground especially in the urban area, and parents who can afford private schools will send their children to private schools. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Otherwise it will not be!]] In turn, we have exactly this social differentiation, which SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens do not want, but we already have. Please be honest and consider who is sending his children to these private schools now: precisely the parents who call for the introduction of these model regions today and here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the last few years, we have invested more and more money in our school system, this year alone, € 8.6 billion in budget. The last PISA results we know are shocking: In natural sciences we lost 11 points, we only have more 20 under 38 OECD states. Reading – terrifying, valued colleagues! – we have lost extremely: We are significantly below the OECD result and take only more than 25 out of 38 OECD countries. One could continue this list. This is education policy, for which the coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP was responsible with a massive leveling of performance downwards, with the result that more than a third of our children can no longer read, write and expect meaningfully. And now you are trying to implement this model across model regions in Austria. I say: This is an attack on our school system.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6314	Mrs Maurer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6335	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The next educational sacrifice!]] The occasion of this special meeting today is indeed a urgent request from NEOS on education reform, which we were fortunately able to bring to an end today in the early days, because we have reached an agreement. But I have to say honestly: I'm very disappointed. The NEOS moved into this Parliament three and a half years ago with a constructive approach: We want to change the style here, we want to introduce ourselves constructively, we want to share with the other parties the things we are convinced of. What you're subtracting here today – I'm sorry – is embarrassing. [[Congratulations on the Greens!]] Matthias Strolz, you mentioned it at the outset, there are many similarities between the NEOS and the Greens as regards education policy and educational policy issues. There are many points in this reform which you have already requested in your requests. It is therefore not as if this would now be a reform that would not contain anything of what you believe is necessary. But I have to say honestly: I don't know myself anymore! A few weeks ago, we were guided by the media: A scandal, it must not fail this educational reform, it must be tried, it must come! A little later, we were reorientated by the media: Oh, my God, for heaven's sake, the Greens must not agree to this educational reform, because that would be terrible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Today, there is a pressing request for the alleged failure of the educational reform, and it is said again that it has to come. [[Abg. Stroll: You can also be stupid, even if you are not!]] Today, there are completely contradictory speeches here, not only between the individual speakers of your group, but also in your own speeches. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the descent fight!]] Claudia For example, Gamon says that this is nothing at all; at the same time, she says that the very least has been implemented. - Yes, how now? Niki Scherak says: No one disputes that important improvements have been made. - Yes, how now? Then Matthias Strolz tells us that NEOS will not agree to this educational reform. How does all of this fit together? – What you convey to us here does not fit in with content, but it does not fit in with what you NEOS announced at the beginning of this legislative period, namely to be constructive. Just like you guys pull this off here today, I can't understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to give a small decision-making aid once again; perhaps it is true that, in the course of this somewhat confused debate, there has been a partial downfall in what this educational reform is all about. It is clear that a purely green education reform, a NEOS/Green Education Reform would probably have looked different. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A freeman too!]] It is an agreement between three parties, with a two-thirds majority. It is quite clear that it cannot and will not have been the last educational reform we adopt. But we have very, very important points in it, and I do not see at all, Niki Scherak, that you are arguing here that by deciding on these improvements, we are now putting in place further improvements in the future. – That means that we should now, please, continue to emphasize even further, now that this agreement has been reached; it does not go far enough to you, therefore: Please extend the negotiations further! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to point out what we are doing here today with this educational reform: We're breaking up a hundred-year-old blockade! With this educational reform, we have the opportunity to finally introduce a model region of the common school. This is a century event! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The concrete has got cracks, that's why it's an incredible success. Then there is a lot of other points that are extremely important. You are right in your request to enter the de-party politicization. Yes, there are other things to do, but we have hearings and quality specifications at the Director's order in the future. We have the opportunity to ask questions. In the future, it will not be like that only and only a party book decides who gets a director's post and who doesn't. That's the de-party politicization you're calling for! Also at the education departments: Yes, that's not the great green model, but it's a step in the right direction, with less influence from the national leaders. Yes, these are... – No! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: If he's the president himself? You dream...!]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] You read the texts of the law before, we also: The automatism that the heads of state automatically dominates has been eliminated. Further points... – No, that has nothing to do with flunker at all, that may have to do with accurate reading of the law text. [[Abg. Stroll: Well? Flunkern, yeah?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where I confess: You're gonna need a little more time. Yes, we agreed today in the morning, you got the text just before the meeting. Perhaps you will read it more precisely, and perhaps you will find more points that will move you to agree to it. [[Abg. Stroll: I read it out!]] [[Abg. Stroll: You're flashing here!]] Another point: Chances index, the national billing – an extremely important point that we know in the future what will cost us who. [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and NEOS.]] To get back to the point: We have a urgent request from the NEOS here, and I said earlier that there is agreement in broad areas between the NEOS and the Greens as far as education policy is concerned; in many areas, but also in some areas. I want to be here now, because it is the parliamentary debate... – Matthias, perhaps you are listening? [[Calls and calls between Abg. Stroll and the greens.]] We are actually talking about this urgent request, which we are going to vote on today. As I said, there are many points where we agree, but there are also points where we do not agree. For example: What is meant to be a school authority to act as an educational service is not further implemented. This is unclear to me, that sounds a little too... – Yes, these are economic concepts that one introduces without making it clear how it is actually structured in terms of administration. The middle maturity you want is another obstacle in the education system. We don't want to. And what is still inside this request: You want completely autonomous schools in educational, human and financial terms. This is a neoliberal dream we don't have. This is the idea that the free hand of the market also rules in schools. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] That's not our concept. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the problem...!]] We are in favour of a public school system which is equally beneficial to all, which is accordingly equipped and where neoliberal market ideas do not govern. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, as already said: It can and will not be the last educational reform we are implementing in this country – hopefully! – but it is a very important milestone, especially because of the model regions of the common school. [[Call the FPÖ:For you already!]] I beg you: Read the text carefully again! Compare it with what was before! It's not just a little better, it's obviously much better. Maybe you can get a back and still agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6563	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6585	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Visitors on the gallery and in front of the televisions! – Right, sensational, Mr colleague! [[The speaker places food packs at the speaker’s desk and creates a table with the text “Intellectual can replace education, but education never the mind”.]] [[Abg. Brosz: A multi-purpose Taferl!]] I like this when these aids/teaching tools seem pretty slow. In the first place in this educational discussion, I can give thanks to the parents, the educators and single teachers because they do the essential basic work so that the school system can work at all, and also to the more than 40,000 teachers in almost 2,200 schools who continue this work. I think that's the essential thing. Chancellor Kern, he's not here now, unfortunately, has said: Education needs to be better and not cheaper. - Yes! We already have a lot of money in the education system, but there are still a lot of opportunities. In fact, I have been very happy with Mr Maurer's preface because she has confirmed: That's really about points. The call was right, Matthias Strolz: Once again, it is all about education in general. And we also need the formation of the heart! At a life expectancy of a hundred years, we do not even have the money for the mothers and the educators to stay with the children for three years – these crucial three years in which the foundation for the whole life is laid so that they can go out into school, be taken over and trained there by the educators. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank you. I have looked at the statistics due to today's report by teacher trade union Kimberger on the lack of teachers. Now I have looked at myself a little more detailed how this can happen at a time when we have a drop in birth or at a maximum of low levels a slight rise. This is a very interesting view. Well, it was interesting with pensions once, because one of the government sugars of this government has been hiding since 2008, where the disability pension has been abolished and transferred to the hacker scheme. Of course, it now looks like the retirement age has risen. However, this refers exclusively to those educators who go to the normal pension, to the old-age pension, but not to the large number of teachers – and that is 95 percent of teachers – who go to the early retirement. There you can see how dangerous statistics are. There you can see how dangerous it is when you make cost bills. I would like to ask the teacher trade union Kimberger here what the reasons are if there is a lack of teachers. I looked at the average pensions, I looked at the average salaries: I don't think that's gonna be the reason. However, I would like to give an example from the education system in Upper Austria, and I would also like to make a request for it. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that at the same time there is an educational council and a national school council president, of these double occupations, where the costs are really set aside, Mr Wöginger. There would be such a great approach to doing something. With the families we never have money, we can never give anything because we can't afford it. [[Abg. Wöginger: But Landesrate...!]] Nothing is too expensive to maintain the privileges! Everything goes, everything has to be defended, there we have model class clientele policy. It's unbearable! I can't. As you hear from my voice, I have been working all weekend and have had a lot of discussions with the citizens, whether at the District Music Festival or at the National Guard Meeting. Then you have the opportunity to sit down together, because they still ask you if they believe that one really works for the people: Yeah, what are you talking about down there? – Just you from the People’s Party, colleagues, you really forgot and learned to listen! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's the main accusation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I do not want to reflect here the really fatal judgment of Alpbacher Schützen about your Tyrolean Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, who is now in the newspaper again because he is famous with Arnold Schwarzenegger. He's supposed to do something for the environment. When we talk about the environment here, he's sitting up there, and you don't know where he's thinking right now. That's your problem: You call yourselves a People's Party, now you call yourselves a new People's Party, and don't change at all! The name is short, and that will be the problem. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[Call at the ÖVP: short is good!]] But I come back to this discussion in peace, and I took along two examples: two examples where you probably have to be crazy in order to believe that in order to take it – friends to take it! Latest purchase, wholesaler gastronomy/hotel: ‘MyEy BIO’, ‘MyEy Eigelb replacement’. Eigelb replacement – we are very sustainable; your new election campaign will be “sustainable” –: Free egg-free, soy-free, milk-free, sustainable – wonderful! You really have to be educated there. There you must have completed at least a few university courses in order to believe that this is healthier than a natural egg product. Now we see what it's all about, and that's the problem. We have universities that study the attitudes of chickens. That's wonderful: We discuss here at the same place where we discuss education, also animal welfare and forms of attitudes, make such strict conditions that we prevent and prohibit such a thing in Austria – and as a substitute we then eat artificial items from the Frankenstein kitchen. That's education! Then you have to be pictured. We don't want this education! There, I think, the house mind – because you have to write in front of the house mind – is already more important than the one in the plastic sack at the supermarkets. I took another product. Of course, an extremely good name: ‘Crème légère’, as in Schlagobers. International Group: Unilever; double-digit dividends. Yes, friends, then you have to be educated: When you talk about the holiday country of Tyrol, when you talk about holidays at the farm, about the well-kept cultural landscape, we eat chemical products that destroy the rainforest that brings us asylumers who destroy the environment and destroy the climate. We are then formed in such a way that we say: Everything in order, wonderful. We don't want that! And that's exactly the problem that's been going on right now: Until the universities, we have to re-establish the practice, the reality, so that we can be understood by the people. This is our main problem: They can't understand us anymore! The population is not politically perplexed, the population is of this kind of politics, withered by these politicians. That is what you hear at every table, and that is the decisive thing, and that is why I would like to make a request here. Maybe you can explain this with education: The conservation and safeguarding of rural areas is now the focus. I mean, that's cool at all, when Minister Rupprechter takes the former head of state Pröll as the chairperson for the rural conservation action, because he has been particularly excellent. I am thinking of Regau – where this festival has now taken place – with 6,500 inhabitants, with 80 state-of-the-art establishments: There the post has closed; then the post was temporarily, for three months, in Regau Vital, and now is the post – hold on to the seats! – in the warehouse. So if our old ones were to be mint and you would explain to them that the post office is in the warehouse – they would send us on training! These are exactly the problems, I think we have, and therefore from my wide experience: I was in the District School Council for 20 years; it took years for the District School Councils to be abolished. This has not had any consequences at all, quite the contrary; a shadow of decision has fallen away. I have seen as a cultural, school and sports speaker in my community how difficult it has become only with the collection of the second level of parental councils, because then we still had the discussions with the parent associations. That is why I make the following request for the abolition of the Council of State Schools/Land Schools Councils, because in turn this is only an additional, difficult level: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6726	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6796	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6818	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I want to start with the positive: The Social Democrats At least it was worth bringing their government team to this special meeting in large numbers – which cannot be claimed by the ÖVP. I think if Minister Mahrer could have come, he wouldn't have come, and then the bank on the side would have been totally empty. Head of State Wallner in Vorarlberg wants a model region Common school, and because you're only operating around here at school administration and not material about what's happening, it's going to be quite an average case – I quote colleagues Walser. Why? – It will continue because that lies with the countries and remains there, will not give free choice of school. There will continue to be the explosive division: Where someone lives, he just goes to the common school. And: As the Vorarlbergers plan, all talents are to be promoted at every school; everyone at every school! So there will be no focus. Of course, a set of priorities only makes sense if there are no explosive constraints, but if you can choose sprengel free. There will therefore be no emphasis, there will be everyone scrutinized over a comb, everything will be levelled everywhere, and that will be precisely the average trap that Mr Walser has warned of. We're marching in this direction now. There's no school autonomy. You can of course do it with the education system as with the health system: It's going down so long until those who can afford to go into private school in a big way – then you've only created a two-class society! If that's your concern, please, you're on the right path. However, what one does not accomplish is to ask: How can schools further develop their autonomy? How can you make a school manager out of a director? – It also remains with the old people in the field of teacher service law. Why a teacher has more stringent redundancies than a normal employee, no one can explain to me to this day. There is also only one reason: the teacher union. Otherwise, there would have to be the same dynamics and the same right as for every normal worker and employee – there is no! What continues to exist is power for the national leaders, power for the party book. You didn't change anything! A few headlines you have produced, a few headlines you have produced, a few beautiful photos – for the children, for the young people, for the education you have done nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6866	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6887	Mr President. Estimated citizens! Dear Colleagues! Your colleague Strolz, you said: You're seeing light. I am doing the same because we now have the opportunity, from which we all probably did not believe here anymore, that we will come this far, namely the opportunity to implement this school autonomy package as well. In your application, this long and difficult process was also developed and described as a kind of “chronology of failure”. In my opinion, it is anything but a “chronology of failure”, in my opinion, we now face a situation in which we have a viable reform proposal, in which red has united with black – and then, in addition, with the greens. In the case of a two-thirds matter, something I always very much appreciate is that once again it is looked over that you really have points on which you pay special attention. This has actually happened here at the joint school. It is clear that the school autonomy package, lapidar formulated, was not a quick throw. We all know that. The package concerns more than 36 laws and 500 regulations. There have been countless rounds of negotiations, including with the trade union – alone with the teacher union there were more than 20 rounds of negotiations – with educational experts, all parliamentary groups, of course with opinions. Of course, this took time. It is hardly surprising that everyone has his idea of what one would like to give to the children, of what one thinks it is best for a child to experience on the educational path in his life. Of course, there are every different ideas, but I think we are all guided by the same motivation, namely: We want a modern and contemporary school and of course also high quality at the school locations. It is precisely from this motivation that I think the negotiations have been conducted. Mr Scherak said yes: It's better than the status quo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] – To argue this way, of course, is not the yellow of the egg now, but there are points included – Sigrid Maurer has also mentioned them – that will bring significant improvements. [[Abg. Wöginger: (in the direction of NEOS) The parents are not worthy of you!]] What are we talking about? – Mr Wöginger has now called out: You don't deserve the parents! – Of course! The association of parents' associations at compulsory schools has also given an opinion on the concrete school autonomy package. That's what I'm quoting. “For parents and parents, what counts in classrooms and what students benefit from. After the introduction of the suggestions from the review and the conclusion of negotiations with the teacher union, the autonomous package, a core element of the educational reform, should be decided before the summer [...].’ What's this about? – First of all, it's about autonomy. It is about the need for educators to be able to decide on the ground in how best to promote the potential of children, and without having to submit school applications, without red tape that is urgently heard and abolished in this area. Of course, in the past there have been thousands of applications for school trials, all of which can be taken for granted, because in the future, students will automatically have innovative teaching arrangements through flexible group formations, the opening of the rigid 50-minute unit, all of which we have already talked about, a self-responsible decision on the curriculum, which means that content and educational priorities can be defined at the schools themselves. Secondly, it is about cooperation in order to produce the highest possible quality. That's where I speak to the education clusters. Teachers can make full use of their expert knowledge in the future, because teachers can teach their own subjects by using flexible teachers in the clusters and do not have to teach in non-special subjects. Within a region, holistic pedagogical education concepts – that has already been addressed by Mr Walser – can be designed. This means that there will be cross-locational projects and that all day school offers or specific support measures can be adapted to the needs of children. In addition, the smaller adjustments that always go down medially are not to be forgotten. These include the possibility of a voluntary eleventh, twelfth school year for children with special educational needs, the possibility of a voluntary tenth school year for extraordinary students, but also the legal protection of teachers who meet and support children with caregiversial assistance. From now on, responsibility will be with the service provider. Teachers are legally protected. There are a lot of points included. My time is already coming to an end, but it is clear that we must not rest with this package. The NEOS application also states: Full attention should also be paid to elementary education. – On this point, I would like to fully support the NEOS request, because elementary education, kindergartens as the first educational institution, which is crucial, starts the education career of a child. I would also like to appeal to Minister Karmasin that it is essential to have a uniform quality framework across the country, because this is a central area that urgently needs the attention needed. Finally, a few words on their own: I am personally pleased that this agreement has been reached this morning. We are on our way to a modern, forward-looking, but also more likely education system. It is a step, one that I do not think is too small a step. There is still a need for improvement, and I do not want to know anything cemented at all. I would like to thank all the educators who will continue to be the joint school in the future, especially as regards the implementation of the model regions. Thank you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6940	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e6961	Dear Members of the Government! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The education system is not only limited to school but also covers universities. After we have now agreed on a school reform, the universities must be next. The universities need urgent funding, including access schemes. I started studying in a mass subject myself more than 30 years ago and have been an assistant for more than 25 years, then a professor in a mass subject. That is, I know exactly what it means to study or teach in a mass subject. For students, this means that they come from a classroom with the highest number of students in mass teaching events where they do not find any personal support. In the legal sciences, for example, we have a care relationship of 1 : 70. This means that the students are a mere number, one or one of too many for the teachers. At the beginning of the study, the fight against the drop-out begins. In the legal sciences we have a drop-out rate of 73 percent. Fairness to students looks different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the teachers, a mass compartment means that they stand in overcrowded audiences and hold frontal lessons there. I also have the opportunity to hold small seminars in the third and thus last study section with a few students, where you can talk to, discuss with, and ask questions with the students. That means you meet at eye level. This is teaching as I would expect it at the university and wish it in all disciplines at the Austrian universities. The blockade against the funding of the study site and the access arrangements prevent such a quality teaching. With such a blockade, however, the scientific career of the assistants is very often prevented. Many assistants at our universities are primarily concerned with pre-corrections. If they are asked at the end of their temporary employment relationship, where their scientific output is, they can only point to the fact that they have corrected hundreds of clauses – but that is not enough. Her scientific career ends before she starts. A demand that is constantly raised to our universities is that they should get the best minds. The best minds are usually active at universities where they find very different framework conditions than in our mass compartments. Faith Do you really think that these best minds are coming to us to mutate to mass caretakers of students in order to really save time for research in addition to the mass care of students? - These best heads we're gonna have a hard time. Against this background, whenever said again and again, the Austrian universities cut off in the international rankings so badly. Yes, it is clear that apples are compared to pears, and that is simply unfair to our universities. It would be fair to our universities to finally decide on the funding of study places plus access schemes, just as it is provided for in the Plan A by Mr Bundeskanzler Kern. I was very disappointed today when he began to postpone these important and right measures on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. Our universities do not need words and consolations, they need actions – actions in the form of a study place financing and access schemes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Please don't come by giving the universities more money! More money is already important for universities, but with it alone you do not reach any more quality at the universities for study and teaching. If it would be so easy to achieve quality of education through mere flows of money, I wonder why we have even decided on a school reform. There we could simply give the schools more money – and that would make the education world all right? – This is absurd, but our universities are fed with such absurdities. We should finally give ourselves a back and decide on the funding of study places and access schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7028	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7049	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! It is actually a farce that now proclaims a new educational reform for red and black, the graves of education policy in Austria. Just these two parties, ÖVP and SPÖ, have ruined the school system in Austria during the past years and decades. If I refer to SPÖ and ÖVP as graves of death, then the Greens can be described with a calm conscience as coffins of education policy because they are always with them. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Kern, we are about the same age. You talked about equal opportunities that you enjoyed at Kreisky times. Of course, she's over for a long time. Unfortunately, the SPÖ in Austria has ruined God, and the possibility that you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, had no longer has a young person who comes from simple circumstances, and unfortunately you are not the first and certainly not the last German chancellor to send his own children to private schools. But it cannot be the solution to social democracy that, as a social democrat, one leaves out the public school system and flees into the private sector. This can usually not be an announcement of social democracy. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] A small view of the ÖVP: You have now given up more or less the gymnasium, at least the public gymnasium. [[Call the ÖVP: No, not at all!]] [[Abg. Walser:... Insert the status quo!]] For those who did not understand: the public gymnasium. Privategymnasia will of course remain in the future, but public gymnasia will gradually die. I bring a few more figures so that one can understand the drama of education in Austria. We have 31 percent risk students, 25 percent factual illiteracy. I also have a very recent study by BIFIE here. If you compare the New Secondary School with the Gymnasium: Reading competence in the New Secondary Schools is not available or inadequate to 60 percent, in the Gymnasia to 17 percent. Mr Walser, you know very well why schoolchildren have this pressure. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Everyone fled to the gymnasia, because the system is even better there. That is, we have a perfect failure in education policy. The figures are terrifying, although we invest a lot of money. There is a wealth of problems we have and we need to solve. A major problem has been mentioned several times today: the wave of migration in recent years and decades. On average, we have more than 50 percent of migrants in the classes, which, of course, has an impact on the school level. This means that the school has now become a social institution, and it is quite clear that the level of education remains on the track. Very soon: What do we want from education policy as a liberal? – We would like good teachers – and, as a supplement, bad teachers should be terminated, which still does not happen, bad teachers remain in school for decades. It should be used effectively in school. No one understands why a month before school holidays and a month after school holidays there is still no regular business. More rights for teachers – that is, teachers should again have more influence on the discipline in the class, on the behavior. Teachers should also have more duties. I don't understand why teachers don't have a 40-hour week with five weeks of vacation, which you can also set up as an annual working time model. It's been a long time. We needed performance-friendly schools and not mixed mesh and levelling down. And we need – which is very important – German compulsory in schools and a maximum of 10 percent of migrants in the classes. This would be a requirement whose implementation would be very helpful to Austrian children in particular. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] As an example of the standstill, there is a small theme that I bring back every time, so to speak, and the annual 5 000 maturants in Austria, which unfortunately did not succeed in the Matura of God and have to take a repeat test. I try again and again to make a very pragmatic request that those 5,000 maturants will be able to complete the Nachmatura before the summer break if they want to. This would bring them opportunities in the profession, study, federal army and much more. So far, it was not possible to implement a very pragmatic idea – an appointment before the summer break to complete the matura – in the standstill of red and black. I would like to make one more point with the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to make this very pragmatic story possible for 5,000 maturants – it is the same every year. It's not a blue maturant or fast-maturants, not a red or black one, it's young people who should be given a chance for the future without suffocating them. Finally, I would like to say a few words: Unfortunately, I don't see God with red and black – and with green anyway – for our young people a chance to start into a future in which they will have an education with which they can also rise in the economy. They allow tens of thousands of children and young people on the route year after year, and all watch. I hope that will change in October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7144	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7211	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7232	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw a summary of this debate, which is approaching the end. First of all, why NEOS education is so important to us: We think it is the most important key to empowering the human being. For the upright course, for the determination to take life itself, education is infinitely important. Education is the best labour market policy. Education is the best health policy – we know that good education also helps to stay healthy. Education is the best integration policy – yes, because we have enormous challenges, especially in integration, and we need a successful education policy to do so. Education is the best social policy, that is no question. Education is a key in many areas of life, so we do not let go of this and are, Sigi Maurer and dear Greens, also sensitive when compromises from our point of view are lazy compromises. [[Abg. Walser: Where's the lazy one?]] The lazy compromise is that you have left a condition and a criterion that you yourself have formulated, namely that the education management must not be a power instrument for the princes of the country. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's a real problem. [[Abg. Maurer: We take the chances once!]] – Yes, I think I have to go into the basics here and formulate once again what the NEOS' self-understanding is, and here too there is a difference between the Greens and possibly other political forces in this Republic. We are the force that creates opportunities; that is our deep conviction. We want to create opportunities for each individual whether this is in the labour market – that is why entrepreneurship is important to us – whether it is in education – so education is important. I admit to the Greens that education is important to you. But now we come into a differentiation. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – We want to be the force that creates opportunities and we want opportunities to grow in this country. We want the talents in this country to grow, and we are determined to be the most powerful force in this country when it comes to pushing back the felt. We want talents to grow, opportunities to grow – and not the felt, not the party book economy, not the party policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] And here we are very basic. We will not allow the felt to grow in this country! We won't let that happen. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Whoever decides this law in this form is the fertiliser for the felt in this country, because party politics will celebrate happy origins because the head of state can make himself the president of the National Education Directorate. Karlheinz Dägenle, if you are philosophyd here that education policy is always power policy and ideology, then I understand that education has something to do with politics, but you can't be philosophically surprised and say: Well, that's power policy, let's go on like that! We know that this makes completely non-special people the head of the highest educational authority in the country, nine times. Completely strange! And why? - Because they want to intervene. Sigi Maurer, you know that, too, and you have a bad conscience. There has been no solemn mood on the occasion of this educational reform today, because you all know: There's nothing to celebrate. You have a bad conscience over long distances, it is a minimal consensus with a lazy compromise from your side. [[Calls to the Greens.]] All the next few years, if you want to change something in education, we will hear: That's what we've just done, leave us alone! – That’s the question that comes to us. [[New calls to the Greens.]] We are the force that creates opportunities, we want talents to grow, opportunities for every individual person in this country – not felt, not friend economy, not party politics. That's the offer we made on the 15th. On October. You can choose this offer. I think the central question is how this small reform process continues. We have very large homework in the field of education, which is still waiting for their completion, for example the free schools. We would let these come into a fairness of opportunity, they are the innovation laboratories in the Austrian school landscape. Mrs Minister, we only need €34 million to make the non-confessional free schools equal to the Confessional free. I think it's very important because they're doing great things. [[Abg. Maurer: That doesn't dispute anyone!]] Let us strengthen quality assurance if you have a question mark, but let us do it! This is how the educational turnaround grows from below. We must say goodbye to the fact that we are making educational reforms the way education was invented as a school under Maria Theresa, that is, along a military organizational paradigm, so that we say: In faraway places, what is to happen in schools is defined by people, through a military chain, it is passed on, and then we believe that it is carried out by the commanders, the teachers. These are experts, let's study them for years, so let's finally do them! Freedom and responsibility is our credo, so we want to make free schools possible. [[Abg. Maurer: These are only air bubbles you give of yourself!]] We are always constructive and have also taken the decision for the common school in Vorarlberg. But where you're moving now, even the greens, we obviously have big stomach pain. We want a common school of diversity. The school is supposed to be as colorful as the real life, as the talents of our students. Therefore: Get out of here with the explosives! Let us decide the parents and the young people! Free school choice without school money! Do liberals have to come here to demand it? We want to give private schools equal opportunities. If they work for the general public when they take public money, they should, however, be non-profit and not be allowed to demand any more tuition. This is a step forward: Free school for everyone! We must be careful not to land where we landed in health. Gerald Loacker is right: Whoever can judge it today sends his children to a private school. In Vienna, this is now more than a fifth of the population. As a result, those who keep speaking for this entire school have their own children in private schools. I don't think that's true! I don't think that's okay! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: such a fool!]] We need a common school of diversity and, of course, a medium-term maturity, and we will continue to fight for it. Dear citizens, you can choose this offer!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7367	I call Mr Mayer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7399	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Lugar, as you are in the room and are listening, I would like to give you one along the way. On TV and wherever you have the opportunity to act, you claim: When children get to school, everyone starts at the same time, and the folk school manages to sort the students out and make bad up to the end of the fourth class. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] You have, I really have to say this so clearly, unfortunately not the paleest shimmer, which happens when children come to school. There are up to three years and more differences in development. And the great challenge for public schools is to remove the existing differences – the reasons we have discussed today in many areas. I claim that the current school system, as we have known and have it for years, is not capable of taking off this backpack, with the equipment of teachers and the organization of teaching, so that the children will have the same opportunities at the age of six, so that they will have at the age of ten the same as everyone else who was lucky to be optimally encouraged as infants. [[Abg. Lugar: Is this gonna be better now?- Oh, my God!]] That's it! Take note of this, and then you also know what you and we are talking about. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Who is responsible for this? The SPÖ!]] – It doesn't make sense if everyone here just splits out his own slogans. That is what we are now at the specific point. I share very many critical approaches by Mr Strolz. At the school organisation I would have wanted a lot more – no question – even in voting mode, how to get to a model region like I would have liked to go to a school. But one must also be able to compromise in a democracy – and therefore my appeal to you. You have to say, okay, we didn't do everything, but the question is: Is that what we now decide here – also in the sense of what the NEOS have said, what you have written in your book, which I have read exactly – a correct and important step in this direction? You know how important autonomous structures are for a school, and you also know how important individualisation is for a child to arrive at. And what is more useful now than if I also give a school that should have the opportunity to organize itself the opportunity to do so?- Oh, my God! I do not have to make complicated school tests and not produce huge administrative burdens, but with these legal steps I am now given the opportunity for a school to take measures in its own responsibility. I would like to give you a practical example on the basis of the number of students. If I can share classes with 25 or 26 children and have a large gym – as most communities have provided their schools with generous gyms – what prevents me from, for example, putting together two classes in gymnastics? I can then do better games, the same exercise, and thus create resources for other areas, for the day-to-day gymnastics, for other measures. I do not need to apply for such possibilities in a reprehensible way through school attempts and so on, because here there is a real opportunity to do the best at your own location. This also concerns day-to-day care. This does not know either Vienna or Graz, Salzburg or Bregenz better than the respective school location: How can I optimize the full day care of my children with the framework conditions given with NGOs and other representatives, with emphasis on associations? And here we should have the freedom to create appropriate opportunities for those 20 percent who, as we are now saying, remain on the track. Our goal is – Harald Walser and I always argue who first said the sentence – no child should stay on the track. If we are serious about this, then we also need to create the opportunities for those equal opportunities who from home – for which reasons always – did not have or have this opportunity, because either the mother wanted to go to work or had to have no money for a follow-up that the child would need and for which the school does not have the conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Or because the money for a private school is not enough!]] But if I can create these conditions, if I give the appropriate resources, with the corresponding autonomous possibilities of the school the freedom to create it for the students entrusted to it, then I have taken an important step to finally achieve equal opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Where's that in there?]] – You need to read it through, and you also need to be able to read between the lines. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: I'll read to you what's inside!]] I say this to you as a practitioner who has experienced the negotiations on this law from the experience of practice, as a father, as a teacher, as a school principal. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] That is why I say, out of deep conviction: It is not the yellow of the egg, but it is an important step to significantly increase the opportunities for our children and finally give the keywords “school autonomy” and “individualization” another back toward implementation. It's not the final yet, but it's another important step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7523	Mr Klubobmann, Mr Lugar, spoke on an actual correction. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7547	Thank you very much, Mr President. – The colleague from the SPÖ has said that there is up to three years of difference when the children come to elementary school. This would mean leaving a child in elementary school at the spiritual state of a three-year-old. I'm actually correcting: There's a so-called school-leaving exam. One looks at whether the children are mature for the school, and a three-year-old would never get a school maturity and therefore cannot be left in the elementary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7584	Mrs Himmelbauer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7605	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also pleased that there has been an agreement in the educational package today that a compromise has been found here, including parents and teachers in a decision. I think it is particularly important to stress once again that participation is ensured and that politics respects the parents' desire when it comes to the form and under which roof their children are trained. Perhaps it's not a big step, but I think it's a step in the right direction, like many other things were a step in the right direction, whether it's the education innovation foundation, whether it's the open innovation strategy, whether it's the improvement in the transition between kindergarten and folk school, or it's in language promotion. And since the Federal Chancellor has also addressed the topic of digitization today: There too he has our support, not only from the EIA, but also from the High House, because we have tabled a motion for a resolution which includes infrastructure, equipment, Wi-Fi and digital competence in teaching. But I cannot leave out the funding of the universities here either, because when we talk about education, we talk about the whole chain in education, from kindergarten to school, teaching to study. Even our government programme, which is still up to 15. October has been valid, providing for us to implement the study site funding. And even German Chancellor Kern – who was not at the time in the negotiations at the time – reaffirmed this agreement in January and also expressed his support for access schemes, as it concerns the quality, the care situation at the Austrian universities. I do not even want to quote Plan A here, but an important sentence that stands in there and which the Federal Chancellor has also addressed today was: It's not about social selection, it's about performance selection. – We can join this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can only say that that would be a fatal decision, because it would not only be until the 15th century. Nothing will happen in October, but nothing would happen over the next three years, as the financing agreement will not take place until then. So I can only appeal to the constructive forces in the SPÖ: Let us implement the study site financing and access schemes!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7648	The next speaker is Dr. Rosenkranz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7670	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I'm just going to: No to the admission limit, yes to the study site financing! ETH Zurich shows it. It is a colorful Parliament, and we can still implement a lot with the support of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we can't do is jump over our shadows. What we promise, we can only do that because it means: Toss two-thirds overboard. – I come to the party that likes to do this later. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has previously listed his education career in his social-romantic position, his retrospect of his own life, which, in the meantime, is all lacking in infrastructure for teachers and schools. Teachers need to become more attractive, teachers need to do something. – Well, who have actually been the competent ministers of the resort in recent times – rightly, one has to say ministers with small i – who have the What the Federal Chancellor has criticized today? – They were always from social democracy. Skill You remember: Who did the first so-called Teacher Bashing as Minister of State? – It was Claudia Schmied who said before the entire press how lazy the teachers are that they have to work more and the like. Mr Klubobmann Schieder, do you remember, or do you not want to be remembered? – That’s worrying now, and I don’t think I’m going to go on now. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I can't remember something that didn't happen!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor meant that the strategy must be put out of dispute that Austria has to get back to the world's top in education, in the field of schools. – Well, that can be put out as a goal, but as a strategy? This should be a strategy to lead Austrian children to the top of the world in school? [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height]] He's only informed himself today. A computer scientist was with him, who aptly also informed him of what was going on badly. This reminds me of the new ÖVP-Obmann Kurz, who is now also driving through Austria to listen to the concerns and needs of the people before he makes a program. I thought he had been in the government for a few years, and yet he has no idea what the concerns and needs of the people in this country are?- Oh, my God! He was, I think, in Tyrol or in Salzburg and there he heard the concerns of the tourism industry, the accommodation companies. – If he had taken care of a little, he would have known where, according to red and black legislation, the registration bank began to press the shoe through the ban and so on, in Austria. He didn't have to drive around anymore, but he would have recognized that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are now gradually giving the gymnasium, the AHS in the long form, the grace- respectful death blow. You have said that we now allow it to be put to the vote with the previous vote. But that's the beginning of the end, you're doing it in a mischievous way; but you're doing the easing of the basic attitude, to say, we're convinced that the long-term gymnasium is one of the best and most proven forms of school in this Republic, just because maybe a few country leaders of you, who are in coalition with the Greens, beg for it. - No, it doesn't work for our children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to the point why there is actually a matter in the debate – which we will discuss tomorrow in the teaching committee – which requires a two-thirds majority. These are our state-political artists at the Greens. – Dear Greens, if you had gotten this law convoluted on the table without need of a two-thirds majority – and even without what you may have accused in the negotiations – then you would have torn the whole thing up in the air! You would have torn the whole thing in the air, which stands – and you're talking about depoliticization! – by national law, it can be provided that the head of state can become President of the Education Directorate in the future. And then you say that this is at last the first step so that in this country the party policy disappears from the school sector if a country leader is entitled to direct the education director, an educational director who needs to receive the instructions and whose appointment takes place on the proposal of the head of state in agreement with the competent Federal Minister?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and NEOS]] So, what's this depoliticization? – The opposite is the case: The National School Councils, in which all parties are pro-poorly represented, are getting away, so that in the future only one party in a federal state can determine what is happening – and the Greens agree with seeing eyes! I'll say to my son tonight, when I get home early before I go to bed, My dear son, you're starting folk school in October. Thanks to the Greens, you don't have the head of state school council president in the future, but you have an education director! And he will say: Thank God, now I'm looking forward to my schooling, because now everything will be better! And next are the votes you have in your model regions: I am already looking forward to the discussions when voting in the conference rooms. Teachers will have to vote – this will probably be an open vote – and the school autonomous director will then sit inside and say: I would personally be for – or against – participation in the model region. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you for? – To choose freely will be a problem, especially for the younger teachers who do not yet have a fixed contract, because as an autonomous director he can choose his own teachers. I'm looking forward to that. This is basic democracy à la Greene, from the hay market to the educational model regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7742	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7764	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This package is a compromise between three parties and cannot therefore be a big throw, as we are ideologically divided. [[Abg. Blow: Reject!]] It is, however, a positive development, especially in the area of organization, when it comes to strengthening autonomy at school locations and more transparency in the school administration. For two years the social partners, i.e. between government representatives and the teachers' union, were negotiating. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank the trade unionists who have participated constructively and actively in this package. In turn, I call the two trade unionists Paul Kimberger and Eckehard Quin, who have very probably contributed to the fact that this package can be on the table today. Ladies and gentlemen, some points could also be directed in the right direction. We have strengthened the voluntary nature of clustering, decentralized structures remain preserved by special educational institutions. Even in the model regions at the common school, negotiations were successful until the end. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply wrong – towards FPÖ – when it is said that the gymnasium is abolished. It will not be abolished! - No, I don't. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oh yes!]] Model regions are made possible. [[Further call of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – Then please contact your colleagues in Vorarlberg! By the way, he decided in the Vorarlberger Landtag that there should be these model regions. Don't talk here in Parliament like this, in Vorarlberg take other decisions! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What do you actually have against direct democracy, if at least half of the parents and half of the teachers each have to be in favour of it so that it comes to a model region at all? I wonder where the basic democratic understanding remains. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Secret vote!]] We have confidence in both parents and teachers that they can decide whether they want a model region at their school location or not; and that is secured by this package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have the limit to 5,000 pupils, so this model region cannot become bigger. Another word for the maximum number of school students of 25: The resources were secured on the basis of the existing maximum class students. This is a constitutional provision that is enshrined in this law. The headmaster can make a proposal, but then the school partners must agree. If they do not agree, the headmaster will once again have the opportunity to submit a proposal, and then he will go to the Education Directorate and the Staff Office. This is what trade unionists have successfully cooperated with. That's what I say quite clearly and openly: We from the People's Party will observe very closely how the situation at the schools in Vienna develops. Should monster class formation occur, we will be very determined about it and do everything necessary. We do not want that – not in the sense of children, not in the sense of parents, nor in the sense of teachers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, one question: What is missing in education reform? – It is an organisational package, and it has rightly been criticised that the essential questions, early childhood education, elementary pedagogy, on which the children come to the elementary school, remain unanswered – and that is what it is all about. Go to a compulsory school in Vienna, in Simmering, for example, where we have a migration share of 60, 70 or 80 percent! I would like to say one thing quite frankly: I put the hat in front of the teachers who teach there. It must be assumed, with accompanying staff, with support staff. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] If we take control of this matter, it will also cost money; but we have this question to solve. If we want to support the public school sector, it will cost something. We can not only talk about private schools – where many who can afford to send their children to the end – and the public sector can stay on the track. And there is the question of the migration to be solved and clarified, ladies and gentlemen. [[Aha-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] At the end of the day, however, I would like to say one thing: Our education system is better than it is presented by many. I would very much like to thank all the parents, the teachers, who work hard with a lot of commitment and time for a good education of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7865	The next item is the report by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7886	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! What we need to prevent by all means and what has only been strangled today is the total school. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That was in the center anyway!]] The overall school is the symbol of uniformity and for equalizing, and I believe that our goal as a responsible politician in this country must be that we suffocate these approaches to the entire school in the germ. On the contrary, not only do we have to get the entire school out of the table, but we have to place much more emphasis on the fact that selection, performance and appropriate criteria are re-entered into society and become the highest values in Austria. We have actually left the elite concept more or less in recent years. Nobody dares say: We want Elite. Ladies and gentlemen, we need elite! If we want to bring Austria forward, we need selected elites. Elite can only arise if we have good schools, if we have schools that promote the talented and not all of them, and rise above a comb, if we do not push all into schools where the same curriculum is valid for all and the failures must bow to the stupid. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Nothing against the stupid – not everyone can have an IQ of 140 – we have to care for them as well, we have to help them through the institutions too, that is not a question at all; but we have to promote the talented, and this can be done in the public sphere. We have an example in Vienna: the Karl-popper school. In the red Vienna we have a school, financed by the public hand, which promotes elites. So please, that's the best proof that this can do the public hand, too. We can't always run private school bashing here, and we can't always do it, and we can't do it, and we can't do it for people who have their children in private schools rightfully, because they're not in the public sector anymore, especially for migration technical reasons. These citizens still have to pay extra for their children to become something. On the contrary, we have to confess to an elite concept again. There may and should be elites in Austria, elites by virtue, that is something positive, that is something good that belongs to promoted, and we should confess ourselves as politicians, which we are also selected. Elite's name is nothing but choice. We need elite schools. We need elites in the youth. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Where do you actually see yourself?]] We need young people to move forward and say: I take responsibility. I've learned something, I like Austrian, and I'm doing something for Austria because I've learned something good. – This will certainly not succeed in an overall school model, where everyone is the same. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] We should also focus on people who don't necessarily go to higher education and who haven't mated. There are elites enough in professions that have little to do with spiritual education or that are practiced by people who have finished their schooling at the age of 15 and have not studied. There are elite craftsmen, there are super skilled workers. There are people who confess themselves even without high or higher education to the elite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] These people, these citizens, we need to support in Austria. Whoever wants to learn something, who can learn, should not find a levelling that binds his hands and pushes the spirit back. To do this, we must confess ourselves in politics. But that does not mean that the weaker must stay on the track, but one can help them. We must, however, want to do something to those who want to do something, want to achieve something, open up all possibilities and support them to the maximum. This is my credo for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7961	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e7983	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Since the chancellor is somewhat too short, I would like to congratulate you: They have completed an important reform. In these negotiations, I have only just joined the last few metres, but I would like to say to you: Negotiating with you was pleasant because I always felt you were looking for a way to reach an agreement. I would also like to thank the ÖVP. Dear ÖVP, I know you have met us a very, very, very, very big piece on the way to the common school. For this I am grateful to you, and you will not regret it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to thank my own negotiation team, Harald Walser and his team. Dear Harald, I know you probably had annoyed SPÖ and ÖVP sometimes with your stubborn entry to the common school, but it was necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For a long time, it seemed that there was no agreement, because much happened in these negotiations, which I believe is also the reason why SPÖ and ÖVP have been hard on the government: Blockades, negotiation exit, then negotiation of two partners without the third, although one needs it, the announcement of the results of negotiations of these two through the media to the third. This makes solutions more difficult. Of course, I realize why this happens: You want to exert pressure. But I'm telling you something: There is no pressure on the greens, not on me at all; the only ones who may be able to do so are my children. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] For us, the facts at the negotiating table count, and these facts at the negotiating table have subsequently spoken a clear language, namely that entry into the common school is a great educational opportunity. Let's come to the common school; there's thesis: The common school is called for in particular by those who were told by Matthias Strolz who sent their children to the private school. I'll tell you something. My children are going to an AHS, which is part of the school's attempt to join middle school. I'm a practitioner. I am not speaking here as a politician, but also as someone who has experience with the system. I once have one. Teacher asked: How's that? He told me: A third of all students who come to this school have no AHS maturity, two thirds already. And he said, At the beginning of the school year, I do not look at the children of this one-third; at the end of the school year I do the exercise and write down the children I think have no AHS maturity. And he says that his presumption has nothing to do with the children who were denied the AHS maturity in the elementary school. [[Abg. Lugar: You just figured this out, didn't you?]] This is any system, and this teacher has thus shown and said why the selection is so early wrong. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] In the class of one of my children, the class best is a Chechen. Without this school model, this Chechen could never have made her way to education. It will probably land at the university, that would never have been possible without this school. In this school children and grandchildren of prominent ÖVP politicians sit next to workers' children and next to children of Turkish standrs. And I'll tell you, Everyone will make their way, this model works! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So, if it's prominent ÖVP politicians, they can maximum...!]] And I would like to say to those who sing the homage on the gymnasium here in part: Talk to parents and face up to reality! There are high school classes where 80 percent have to take remedial action. There are families in power because they don't know how to get their children through school. Yes, those who have money for re-help, or those who have education, somehow do. The children who do not receive this support are sorted out. That's how it works in reality. Then there are schools, gymnasias, between the 5th and the 8th. Class half of the students are tested out. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Class at 15. These gymnasias are then proud that they have a sensational quota at the Central Matura, namely those who create the Central Matura. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] You have to say to these gymnasias: You're wrong, you don't need to be proud! Your job is not to end education careers, but to develop them! – We must face these problems! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] To the FPÖ: Represent your voters better! Every study says: Whoever comes to the gymnasium follows the financial possibilities and social status of the parents. Whoever claims to be and seems – I don't believe it anyway – for the people with small incomes, must be for the common school, because exactly those children of parents are sorted out with small incomes. The elites who come to the gymnasium, and these are the ones you actually represent. Next point: There FPÖ politicians are making themselves and saying: no experiments and no attempts with children! – I invite you to go to school. [[Abg. Mölzer: This is an experiment!]] An attempt to make an experiment is when two substances are mixed together in chemistry teaching. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But with the two substances there can be quite some explosions!]] A model is when you make a model in work lessons that shows in small what is possible in large sizes. This is not an attempt, it follows a concrete plan, and that is the common school! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next point: We were threatened during the negotiations with the FPÖ. I'll tell you, With the FPÖ we cannot be threatened, because where responsibility begins, the escape route of the FPÖ begins, in the other direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To NEOS: I've always seen you as an ally, but what you've shown today were the caprioles you beat there. Matthias Strolz appointed a special meeting under the title: Reform failed – scandal! Then it becomes known that there is a reform, says orf.at: Strolz criticises the agreement in advance. – He didn’t know what was inside, but he already hit the first pirouette. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is a liar populist, an insanity!]] Then colleague Gamon comes out, her criticism is: You cannot reach an agreement today, if there is the urgent request, just before that! – Yes, what should we do? Shall we move them? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So no coalition with the NEOS!]] So that's absurd. I'm telling you, the NEOS, an opposition party looking for attention, and these pirouettes are good for you to subtract here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated hard and tough. I know we went into the nerves of SPÖ and ÖVP at times, but for the result it paid off. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e8154	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. Dr Strolz, colleagues on the failed education reform of the core short-term government: Non-responsible power policy and party tactics on the back of our children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, colleagues on German classes for students without sufficient knowledge of the language of teaching. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the abolition of the political pro-porces in the Austrian school system. Who's calling for it? – That is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues and colleagues, on the repetition of partial examinations or on areas of examination of the final examination (Matura). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[15:13:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00186_d7e8227	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 2253/A(E) to 2261/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 3:14 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
