ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e395	I'll open the 193. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Katzian, Mag. Groiß, Haubner, Dr. Dägele, Jannach, Kitzmüller, Lausch, Neubauer, Brosz, Dr. Lightenecker, Dr. Walser, Gamon, Schellhorn, Dr. Winter and Doppler. [[13:13:20]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e426	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e559	In addition, I agree with the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on freedom of choice for consumers at Smart Meters, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and 2282/A(E) by Mrs Angerer, colleagues in the field of school leave. [[13:13:59]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-07-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e595	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The final regular meeting of the 2016/2017 meeting is now ending. It is not an end this year as every year before the beginning of a meeting-free time, but it is a really very extraordinary end. They have just set the course of an early National Council election by a vast majority. And: We have gathered here for the last time today at a regular meeting before the National Council is transferred to Hofburg. This transfer: This is only 750 meters walk – and yet it is a big step in the history of the Republic. For the first time in the entire history of the Republic, laws are passed in the National Council outside this House! 72 years ago, 29 years ago. April 1945, Dr. Karl Renner, the newly praised State Chancellor from Vienna City Hall, walked here to the Parliament building at the Ring, where he announced the rebirth of the Republic of Austria. The Nazis had abused Parliament as a Gauhaus. Half of the building substance was bombed and burned, and democracy was eliminated for eleven long years. Karl Renner promised to “re-invite Parliament to the glorious Greek temple of freedom. ” At the time, in 1945, a showman said to a newspaper: “The democratic tradition is, of course, not bound to a building, it is rather anchored in the spirit and hearts of the people.” – I think that’s right. It is not enough if we simply put democracy here in this Parliament building. Democracy must be in the spirit, in our spirit and in our hearts to live. It's also true: Our parliamentaryism is, of course, not linked to a house, but our parliamentarianism is closely linked to this House here at the ring. Democracy is also anchored in the spirit and in the heart today. But just like any abstract idea, it also needs a physical anchor to see, hear, smell, touch, and thus know the mind and heart that this idea is a real one, that there is this idea as well. This anchor is undoubtedly this Parliament building and this house. After 134 years, I think it's really deserved this renovation. To date, it has seen 4 564 parliamentarians go in and out. It has seen the monarchy and the transition to democracy. It has survived fascism and has risen with the Republic. And today we can say: Parliamentaryism is better than our Parliament building. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous Parliament year 2016/2017, which we now regularly end, we passed 153 laws and 53 of them, each third, also unanimously. These are laws that have brought concrete improvements to people in our country. Here I would just like to mention three of these laws for example for the many: We have abolished the care regime, we have decided on pensions for victims of violence and abuse in ecclesial and state children's homes, and we have adopted an eco electricity law novelle so that Austria can also secure energy supply in a sustainable manner. Now, at the end of this meeting, we are moving so that we can also preserve this Parliament building for future generations. We connect the necessary with the useful and make this house fit for the future, hopefully for the next 130 years. Such a century-old project presents all those involved with great challenges. This also applies to the outstanding Parliament year, which, as has been said, was a truly eventful one and which, in addition to important everyday tasks, was also associated with all kinds of extraordinary, extraordinary tasks. I am thinking of the sedifference of the President of the Federal Republic and the fact that the three Presidents of the House have conducted the business for 201 days – and have also conducted an election campaign. I remember that we could then praise a new head of state in the historic meeting room. I'm thinking about the 26th. On the day of the open door, at which 15 000 people have visited the Austrian Parliament, October, our National Day, as many as never before. And, of course, I am thinking of the “gesture of responsibility ” toward the former home children. With all those who have enabled us to discuss and process this so professionally and successfully, I thank you personally very, very cordially. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank all the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, without which we could not fulfil our duties, for all of them at the Parliamentary Director Dr. Harald Dossi, Deputy Director Mag. Alexis Wintoniak and Dr. Susanne Janistyn-Novák. [[General condolences.]] I thank all the staff of the six clubs represented in Parliament – as many clubs as in no legislative period before – including their club directors and club members personally. I would like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference and the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Special to the two colleagues in the Bureau, thank you very much to the Second President of the National Council Karlheinz Kopf and to the Third President of the National Council Nobert Hofer. I thank you for the good and cooperative cooperation. [[General condolences.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, of course, all of you and your employees. Finally, allow me to make an appeal to all of us, namely that, despite the debate we have on the election, we do not forget that we, as Members of Parliament, have the role to play in this Republic and that we always have to take this lead in every form of debate. We are called upon to see this upcoming election campaign as a democratic contest of the best ideas and the best concepts for people in our country and to meet each other with propriety, fairness and respect. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you all the best and a few beautiful, relaxing days in summer. - Good luck! [[General condolences.]] [[13:23]] The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 20. September 2017, at 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
