ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7595	I'll open the 165. Meeting of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to stand up for a minute's memory from your places. [[Those present rise from their seats.]] [[In the former place on the government bank of Federal Minister Oberhauser lies a bouquet of pink roses.]] [[The SPÖ delegates and members of the government carry red cloves at the revers.]] [[10:01:43]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of the Federal Minister for Health and Women Dr. Sabine Oberhauser, MAS
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7638	Last Thursday a passionate politician and lovely woman left us far too early. Federal Minister Sabine Oberhauser lost her brave fight against cancer at only 53 years. It has always met other people with respect and open heart. For this, she was valued across party boundaries. Born in 1963 in Vienna, she graduated from two specialist courses after her medical studies, in parallel she became involved in the trade union work, in 2009 became Vice President and in 2013 Federal Women's Chair of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. In the Austrian National Council, to which she was a member from October 2006 to September 2014, she has worked in numerous committees, including the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights in the Health Committee. During her entire life, in the political and trade union sphere, Sabine Oberhauser was a strong fighter for the rights of workers, for the equality of women and for a powerful health care for all. It is always standing firmly on the ground with both legs. She was a daughter, a wife, a loving mother and recently a grandmother. In the hearts of her loved ones and in the hearts of many people she will have a permanent place, also in mine. Our compassion applies at this hour to the family of Sabine Oberhauser. High house! I would ask you to commemorate Mrs. Dr. Sabine Oberhauser in a minute's silence. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take up their seats again.]] The official protocols of the 160th and 161ths. Meeting of 31. January 2017 as well as 162, 163 and 164. Meeting of 1. On 1 February 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Haubner, Wöginger, Mag. Haider, Ing. Schellenbacher, Strache, Maurer, Mag. Vavrik, Mag. Alm, Gessl-Ranftl and Dr. Jarolim. [[10:05:34]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7703	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: Due to the death of Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Sabine Oberhauser on 23. In accordance with Article 71 of the German Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in conjunction with Article 77(4) of the Constitutional Act, took place on February 7, 2017. Federal Minister Alois Stöger entrusted with the continuation of the administration of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7727	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Chancellor Mag. Christian Kern is elected by the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery of Mag. Muna Duzdar. I announce that this meeting will be held from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 5 p.m., will be sent in time. [[10:06:45]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7766	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Safe jobs and pensions instead of mass immigration into the social system” First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7793	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not so easy to stand here after the mourning minute as a first speaker, but I think it would have been in the sense of our late Minister for Health to really continue the political debate here. Madam President, you have already said a lot, but I would like to add one thing: It was Mrs Oberhauser who has always sought political debate until the end, despite her very serious illness, and I think it would be in her sense to continue the debate here today. [[General condolences.]] I'm already on the subject: Federal Minister Stöger, this is about safe jobs, about safe pensions. We've got it today. March, the new Get data from the AMS. We see, when we look at these, it is a zero-sum game compared to the previous year as far as unemployment is concerned. If you look at the numbers a little more precisely – we will analyze it very carefully in the next few hours – you will notice the following: There is an enormous increase of almost 8 per cent in training, which means, of course, unemployment has not remained the same. As a result of the increase in training, people have been hiding in unemployment again. Mr. Federal Minister, I'll start with something that burns me very much under the nails: This is the opening of the service check for asylum seekers. You obviously try to play people against each other in the low-paid sector, namely those who already earn little, about €5, are to be replaced by those who then earn only €1. I'll tell you: That's the wrong way, because at the end of the day we'll all have these people back at the AMS – those who're being pushed out anyway, and there'll be more and more reclaimed, because that's what you and your policies stand for. And that's the wrong way, Minister of State! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even though the Minister of the Interior now acts as a brave warrior and tells us that he wants to move a lot of people away, from now on it will be all who do not have a residence permit, I say we have heard that before, about a year ago, by the then Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner. She has already announced that she will move 3,000 people each year. Passing there's nothing going on! As far as Mr Sobotka is concerned, there is a little impression that he is Mrs Mikl-Leiter with Glatze: He himself, too, announces, but no deeds will follow! By the way, the Minister of Defence is not to be released entirely from the responsibility that a deportation of media activity in a Hercules: a Schengen deportation, please nice, in which more journalists and more security personnel were in the plane than to be postponed. This makes one media effective, with flight hours costing more than € 11,000. That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. If, then, we have to move properly to the countries of our home countries, but there is a big problem because we have a foreign minister who has obviously been on vacation for the last two years. Now he's just pretending he didn't know anything at all – maybe he didn't have a phone or an internet – but the fact is, he's standing down, he's making big speeches, he's on the alert now, and he's playing the Kraftmeier. In reality, he has not made a single return agreement to this day, but without that it will not work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I also recall the professional recognition portal of the Integration Fund, which is operated on behalf of the Integration and Foreign Minister. There, those entitled to asylum can make themselves smart, see what recognition they need, and if they then admit that they are returning to smoking, then they find: no recognition necessary. – Well, I imagine this interesting when the Iraqi or Afghan smoker recruits here in Austria! We know that it smokes there at all corners and ends, however, whether the security arrangements are really such and whether this is really the right way to have the right access to the Austrian labour market, I dare to doubt this here. But now to you, Mr Social Minister, because this current hour is primarily addressed to you – you are not only social ministers, but above all labour ministers. Last summer, you noticed a demand you made, namely: Kebab on the alm. You said at the time that it would be good if you could integrate the asylum seekers, you would have enough cooks on the alm. I already wonder if the tourists who come to Austria are coming to the mountain pasture because of the kebab, or whether it is not typical Austrian specialities that they would like to have. But you will probably tell me in your statement that everything is going to be great now that there is the new agreement between the two government partners that contains the employment bonus. If you look at the employment bonus and hear it so superficially and see what you say about it, you might think that this is really a real thought approach. However, I know the acting persons, we all know them and we know that it will not come as you want, because these acting persons lack the force of implementation. And if I hear what's to come back, and the President of the Federal Chancellor says that it's mainly about those who have been reported to the AMS and have been unemployed for so long, I have to say: Let us look at the labour market figures! When we take the details from January, we see that the number of unemployed foreigners is rising very rapidly. This has been the case in recent months, and it is expected that it will not be different in February. Of course, unemployment in the field of foreigners is rising disproportionately, and these are now to be encouraged again. I tell you one thing, Minister of State: This job bonus you're bringing is a single red tape sample you're building here. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] I would like to add the following: The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has also often been wrong. What happens if this bureaucracy sample is not EU-compliant? – Then bureaucracy was built up, and at the end of the day we still have to take it back, perhaps we still have to pay punishment. I would also have liked to know about you: Why is this employment bonus not paid out by the AMS? – After all, the AMS, the labour market service, is subject to public control. – No, this bonus is cared for and paid out by the aws, the Austrian economic service. There's no parliamentary control, anything can happen. It's not transparent. You have to explain that to me now! Tax funds, taxpayers are paid out through a private association, where the AMS exists. What do we have the AMS for? – So it would be nice if you explained this to me, to all of us and, above all, to the Austrian taxpayers. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] In addition, there are still many points in this Convention, such as: I am now looking at my unemployment statistics in the so-called difficult cases. – Difficult cases are such if people do not appear at the AMS meeting dates; these were 103 people last year, in 2016. In any case, take these out of the unemployment statistics. There is now a separate statistics, that is to say, to assist and to please all these statistics on the one hand. On the other hand, you want to transform Austria into a socio-economic operation. That is the objective that obviously stands behind it. A large number of measures are therefore announced and put in place, with In reality, it is not possible to see who will benefit them, and there is no parliamentary control at all. These are your goals. Or: the training obligation that you have now so grandly announced. Mr Federal Minister, who is the target of this training obligation? Look You're looking at the over-company teaching workshops! Even today, over 90 percent of young people with migration backgrounds are there. There is again a promotion of young people with migration backgrounds. With your predecessor, we have even made a visit to one of these OCTs. The head there said: Over 90 percent are here with migration background! – That’s not an invention from us, these are the facts, these are the numbers. It will not work if you do not try to stabilise the Austrian labour market sustainably. This requires a sectoral closure of the labour market. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the sense of free movement of workers has already been that there is a balance between the labour force and not a one-way drive towards Austria. This is not a compensation today, and it would therefore be so necessary that you are committed to closing at EU level. You told us in the Committee that you tried, but you stayed alone. – Then that’s exactly the problem! The Austrian Federal Government and its members remain alone in the EU because they simply do not try it with sustainability and pressure, but they think of something, they talk about something. Then they will be voted down, and then they will be silent. That's the problem! That is why Austria is also the only EU country in which unemployment is constantly rising while it is falling in all other EU countries. It's not like it wouldn't be possible to do something. Remember: The British had already negotiated that the freedom of movement of workers would be restricted before it came to Brexit. Why did it go for Great Britain? Why is it not for Austria? Explain Now, please, let's see! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I tell you one thing – and I say that to you in all clarity: The following applies to us: Austria first! It cannot be said that there is a competition for displacement in Austria, where unqualified staff, where low-paid workers are imported into masses, are being forced away by their own people in the country. Austria is not the World Social Office, not the World Labour Office, not the World Training Office. In any case, you will not be able to turn the labour market around with this flicking shoe!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7950	Mr Stöger spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e7972	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, watchers here and in front of the screens! I can thank you – thank the FPÖ for choosing this topic for the current hour. I would like to thank you because it has become clear that the Federal Government has also given the highest priority to labour market policy and employment. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you should have done it!]] It is important that this issue has been declared the most important issue of government policy. We need a labour union, a European Union based on investing in Europe that new ways of investment policy and thus new ways of labour market policy are being developed in Europe. Some of the criticisms are well justified. There is indeed a central problem in the European labour market, namely the fact that many investment measures could not take place and the public areas were severely restricted. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why? Why?]] As Austria, we have made strong efforts to improve the Austrian labour market so that we can strengthen the Austrian labour market with investment. We must also not accept that the Austrian labour market is irregular. That is why we in Austria have also made it quite clear – and for this, for example, I am massively criticised by other countries – that we have implemented the strictest law regarding the Send Directive. We have also implemented the Enforcement Directive very strictly. There is therefore, of course, a discussion at the European level: How can we manage to ensure that employment conditions for working people in Austria, but also in Europe, do not deteriorate by wage and social dumping? That is why it is so important to have a deep discussion here as to how we can ensure that the labour market is also a central issue, which measures must be taken at European level, but primarily what measures we are to take in Austria. We have said very clearly in the government programme that the employment bonus is very important because we want to provide support to industry, to businesses for the additional jobs that are being created. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not over...!]] We have said quite clearly that we are making a “employment action 20,000”. We want to promote 20,000 people who are long-term unemployed and have only one lack – and that is not a lack, that is experience – that they have the age I have, namely, being older than 50. They have no chance on the labour market, therefore, because they have simply reached a age over 50. These people have always worked well, and perhaps the company has been closed, went into bankruptcy – whatever. Only because of this fact are many people unemployed, and we have said that we want to give these people a guarantee that they will find work in the public sector – jobs in companies, communities or even social services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will implement model projects in every federal state in the summer in a labour market district, and we have also secured €200 million for this. They have addressed the employment bonus: We will also provide 50 percent of the additional wage costs for those companies that receive additional staff for three years. Why is that doing all that? – I say that quite clearly: This is a promotion, and this is the promotion developer of the economy. That's why it's doing the same thing. It is also relatively well controlled, it is an institution of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, of course, also parliamentaryly controlled. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who?]] We will take another step. I would like to thank the social partners for saying that they also need to see that people working in Austria find their incomes. Therefore, it is not the case that there are people in this Republic who work 40 hours and do not receive a minimum wage of €1500. I am therefore grateful to the social partners for their willingness to agree to have a solution until the summer so that the minimum wage of €1500 can be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also thank the trade unions. The trade unions have said very clearly that 1 500 € is a lower limit that they want to achieve the target of 1 700 €, i.e. 10 € per hour, but the first step is this 1 500 €. As you have also mentioned the pension on the topic of the current hour: I have also held many discussions with people from the Federal Republic of Germany over the last few days and weeks. Members have come to this House and have asked: How do you do this with the pension? because they have noticed that Austrian pension law is the right that has become a benchmark throughout Europe. [[Abg. Cashier: I hope not!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] We see that the issues you have decided here in Parliament are also very good internationally. I agree to describe a few aspects of problem groups on the labour market. Of course it is that we want all people to be supported. We have people who are long-term unemployed who need special intensive care. We will strengthen our activities in this field. We have clearly said that we need an integration year in Austria. Why? – Because people come to us, young people who need to get to know our culture, who also have to deal with the opportunities for work in Austria. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... men!]] We know, of course, that the best form of integration is to be in work and to be able to take care of your own livelihood through work itself. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what we know.]] That's what we want. That is why we have implemented the integration year quite clearly, which is about communicating the language, communicating the values, enabling work training, but also highlighting the qualifications of these people. What's very important to me – you mentioned it – is: It is about the question of qualifications. We have people in Austria who have completed an apprenticeship as an education. We know that the Austrian employment miracle also has to do with the fact that people in dual vocational training have developed skills that characterize them and thus Austria towards other countries. We want to strengthen these people who have taught. That is why we have clearly said that we want to upgrade the teaching by taking over the costs of preparation courses for the examination of courses by providing the financing of language courses. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which language courses would that be exactly?]] I would also have liked to upgrade the teaching by supporting the driver's license test. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] This has not yet been implemented, but it would be an important measure in this area. I myself have completed a teaching, and therefore I know what you can learn there and how important it is for the Austrian economy. And that is why I would like to address those people who are strengthening Austrian specialist work in this way. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: The living conditions of the people at home are crucial, they are also crucial for Europe. Living conditions and working conditions must become the same in Europe, equally good for all. [[Abg. Kickl: “Wish what”!]] We need to make a stronger effort to do this, because if the distance between Vienna and other countries is very short – 60, 70 kilometers – then it is important that the living conditions on this side and on the other side of the border are the same. [[Abg. Kickl: And white Christmas!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What exactly are you going to do?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] This is a challenge for Europe. In this direction we will work. The strengthening of the social pillar in Europe is an important issue. We will bring this into the next councils very intensively. We're working for it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: With Austrian tax money!]] Criticism is something simple – that is easy – but it is very crucial that we take the further steps here. With the government programme, with the employment programme “Employment Action 20,000”, with the measure of the employment bonus, with the qualification offensive, with the strengthening of teaching, the Federal Government has made its contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8205	Thank you, Minister of State. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Muchitsch, has been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8232	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before devoting myself to the subject, I should like to welcome the students of the Neue Mittelschule Schwerberg, on behalf of our Member, Marianne Gusenbauer-Jäger and all the Members of this House. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is really not easy to get a position on a subject now, as we thought a very great colleague, friend and politician just a few minutes ago. The current hour, however, at FPÖ's request, is also an opportunity, I believe, to bring certain facts and for you, ladies and gentlemen, at home in front of the television screens, one or the other. We live in a very moving time – we all get it with us – and yes, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, it's not all great. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, what she says already!]] Of course, we have problems with regard to the labour market, which has very difficult conditions. And if you talk about mass immigration in your statement, demand secure jobs and pensions, and say that our social system is at risk, then I must say that we have to look at the causes. I'm sure you're going to be right: One of the biggest causes is that we may all have underestimated this. [[Abg. Mölzer: We didn't underestimate that!]] [[Intervocations of the Deputies Hafenecker and Peter Wurm.]] Free movement of persons is one of four fundamental freedoms and thus part of this EU Treaty, and you, the FPÖ, too, have taken part in EU enlargement as a party to government responsibility in 2003. [[Abg. - That's right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But the labour market was not open!]] We don't always move and talk things away, but let's just say: Yes, the largest EU enlargement was decided in 2003 in this House under FPÖ's government responsibility and with the unanimous adoption of FPÖ. That's the facts. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== The other enlargement, which concerns Bulgaria and Romania, has also received great approval from the FPÖ, except for two Members. Also with regard to the last step, enlargement to Croatia, there are now a number of mandates of yours who have also given their approval. That was once called a fact and for people at home to know that this is just the reality. The question now is: What do we do about it? They will also admit to me, but Austria also benefits from these freedoms. We have a number of sectors on which this freedom of movement of persons has a very large impact. This development requires countermeasures. You know: Especially in the last few weeks and months, SPÖ with German Chancellor Core and subsequently also the ÖVP have announced in a joint work order that measures can be taken to combat wage and social dumping, with which we can fight unemployment, so that older workers, workers over 50, have more opportunities to get a job in Austria, and with which we also want to create additional jobs with a bonus system. Unemployment is still high, although, compared to the previous year, the unemployment rate is down by minus 1.3 percent for those who have been reported as unemployed, but that is all far too little. I am also right for all those critics, and that is why this measure with the employment bonus is an opportunity. Instead of discussing here in this House what place to deal with, it would be a great deal more successful to work on how we can best implement this employment bonus. I would like to remind you of the words of our Chancellor who invited you, all the opposition parties, to participate in this package of measures in the coming weeks and months, and it will be up to you to contribute accordingly. [[Abg. Kickl: You!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Hot iron, such as measures against sectors that endanger our labour market, is also included in this work programme. It is now really up to all of us – the political parties – to do political work here in the coming weeks and months to counter these influences. I invite you to do so, and I really expect that in this discussion we are dealing very objectively and fairly with each other. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8349	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8370	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned by the previous speakers, the issue of this current hour on the labour market and secure pensions is a very essential one and also an up-to-date one in view of the unemployment figures, and we must also devote ourselves to this, although the title of this current hour is once again typical of FPÖ and mixes many things – up to “mass immigration into the social system”, as it is called in the title. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For us as ÖVP, it is absolutely clear that everything is to be done in order to fight against unemployment; and this is primarily what the Austrian People's Party sees – and this is what the Austrian People's Party is always doing – through the support of the local economy to create jobs. However, it is also the ÖVP, which consistently also uses itself consistently in the discourse with the coalition partner for a future-fitted pension system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] It is clear to all of us that we need to take appropriate steps here to ensure the pension system permanently; and we have taken important steps again, especially with the pension package at the end of last year, 2016. It is clear to us, however, that this must be followed by further action. On the second part of your theme of the current hour, the “Mass immigration into the social system”, some remarks have been made: It is the ÖVP, which insists quite vehemently on it and in its operational implementation in the Federal Government also looks at limiting immigration. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where?- Oh, my God!]] We speak very clearly for ceilings and also for deportations. Just yesterday in the Council of Ministers, the current foreign law package was decided, and as FPÖ you have the opportunity to agree to it and not to demand everything as it did in the State Protection Act and then to stick to it here in the House when voting. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Bla, bla, bla!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Are you proud of it?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Bla, bla, bla!]] That's not how you imagine consistent work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This new foreign rights package will no longer provide basic services for those who are forced to leave, and there will also be faster withdrawals and withdrawals from criminal asylum seekers. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One word, too, because you repeatedly address this, to the need-oriented minimum assurance: The ÖVP has always advocated a covert of minimum security, and above all also for a lower minimum level of protection for those entitled to asylum. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Ha, ha, when?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Especially in the Federal Republic of Germany – in Upper Austria you are even in the state government – in Upper Austria and Lower Austria, these covers and restrictions have already been introduced; and you can put your focus very strongly on the city of Vienna, since the Court of Auditors has just presented a shocking report. [[Abg. Kickl: The pühringer...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ]] There are acts to be done, there is to be opposed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As it just fits: For the ÖVP, the following is also of course, and we will also go through it: adapting family support to foreign children to the price level there. That is a question of justice, and we shall implement it accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutors Steinbichler, Schimanek, Kickl and Walter Rosenkranz.]] But now more concrete on the subject of labour market: For the ÖVP and the Federal Government, the updated government programme is an absolute focus on business and work, because only a thriving economy secures jobs and thus also prosperity and security. There are important measures to be taken. In recent years, not least through European interest rate policies, but also through positive economic effects, and substantially through the tax reform, to stimulate the economy and to stimulate investment; and the next steps are to create additional jobs and concrete incentives with the increase in the investment premium, with the employment bonus, but also incentives for older workers. The abolition of cold progression will also relieve citizens of relief and thus increase consumption. However, further measures are needed, such as deregulation and red tape reduction, a future-oriented solution to flexible working hours, measures for older workers – the government programme also provides solutions. It's clear to us: Each and every unemployed person is one-to-one, and we have to take measures to get them into employment. The ÖVP and the Federal Government are doing this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8568	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8590	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Muchitsch! Ladies and gentlemen Hammer! One thing is quite clear about the free movement of persons in the EU: Illegal immigration is illegal, was illegal and will remain illegal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this is what this Federal Government stands for, and that is why it has the responsibility to take on responsibility for how this matter will be handled in the present and future. I would like to say to the pension system, ladies and gentlemen, that the Freedom Party, of course, admits itself to the state pension system, the so-called levy system, but two things are important to us in this regard, namely: On the one hand, it must be ensured that the pension guarantees an age in dignity, and on the other hand, there must be no poverty in the pension. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the two most important challenges we face, and we discussed these challenges – as Mr Stöger has already mentioned – together with representatives from the German Bundestag last week. You said that the situation in Austria was so great that the Germans would envy us. I can tell you one thing: This social scrupulousness, which exists here in Austria, is what brings us, what this pension system brings to the brink of practicability, and that is really nothing about which the Germans envy us! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Practically every week a new scandal is revealed, where the social system in Austria is exploited by any channels. And there should be no more that in the future! It is not until a week ago that the Court of Auditors showed what is going on here in Vienna, how the system is being exploited here. I am convinced that my colleague Worm will go even further into this. We have a massive problem in demographic development in our system, and we have built on this system of labour market policy. We have had quite good employment figures in recent years, but we have - and this is probably not to be denied - also to see the highest unemployment in the last decades, ladies and gentlemen! And this high unemployment is also due to the development in the EU, by wage dumping, by the labour force from the East, which goes to Austria Come on, come on, come on. There is hardly any more really productive payments into our social system, and this money is missing from pensions, ladies and gentlemen! That's why we're getting lower pensions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have to fight this massively! We are committed to the system, but, Mr Federal Minister, we must finally proceed to achieve a harmonisation of the pension system, to get all systems regulated under the ASVG. It is your responsibility to finally come into contact with all those responsible in Vienna, in the federal states that have not yet implemented this, and to press for implementation. In the countries dominated by social democracy, it cannot be said that there is no harmonisation of the system, that the retirement age is not respected – in some cases ten or more years of absence of the statutory retirement age of 65 years – that the pension age of the ÖBB is not met by the retirement age that the retirement age is not observed in Vienna. We all pay for them! There are also the luxury pensions that are not yet regulated to the extent that we would imagine. [[We welcome the FPÖ, as well as Mr Strolz and Mr Dietrich.]] Two days ago, the Industrial Association together with the IHS published a study. Do you know, Minister of State, what this study has shown? – The call for the nine regional health telephones to be put together on four, because they have the greatest potential for saving in the social system! What has my colleague Kickl been demanding for ten years? – That’s exactly the combination of the local health phone! Mr Federal Minister, it will really be time for you to act at last and move forward with the pooling of the local health phone! That's what you're really calling for, Minister of State. [[We welcome the FPÖ, as well as Mr Strolz and Mr Dietrich.]] One thing has to be clear: This pension system is only possible if we take all these necessary steps, otherwise you are in the duty to explain to the youth why it will not get any more pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8674	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8695	Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Dear viewers! I am now saving myself more comments because, quite honestly, I cannot understand what the FPÖ is aiming at now – which have so far been very confusing statements of your own on the subject you have chosen – but what I would like to say is that it is obviously not worth your clubman, Mr Strache, to be present when it comes to nothing less than the social system in Austria, the people in Austria. It is important for him to be in Germany at an event of the right-wing populist party AfD and to be missing here. [[Call the FPÖ: Like the German Chancellor!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Where is the Glavischig?]] – Mrs Glavischnig is here, she has gone out shortly. Your clubman prefers to be with the AfD on Wednesday than to talk about a theme that is supposed to be so important to you. [[Abg. Neubauer: Then talk about the topic!]] I'm trying to find a thread in all that happened. I think the message is short, the message is relatively simple, so much more is concerned about how much the debate is being addressed by the SPÖ and partly by the SPÖ side. My previous speaker from the ÖVP has only confirmed and made you more or less a coalition offer, at least what social policy issues are about. [[Abg. Deimek: It hurts you, it's quite clear! But with your 12 percent?- Oh, my God!]] I'm really wondering: What's at risk for us? Social system really? [[Call the FPÖ:The Greens!]] Is it the permanent nurse, the 24-hour caregiver who is supposed to take away so much? Or, for example, is it the forever long debate on minimum security last year, driven by black and blue, driven by black and blue coalitions, which in some countries, in Lower Austria and Upper Austria, have even been driven to the top where people have been excluded? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Let's do it like in Vienna, no controls!]] It has always been about the question: How and who else can we take away? It's always been about: How can we take away people, how can we take away people who are already in our social state at the very bottom of the hierarchy? [[Abg. Kickl: Unbelievable with this red-green stable that reigns in Vienna!]] Unfortunately, this has never been the subject of the debate: How do we manage to get people away from the minimum security? How can we ensure inclusion in the labour market so that they can find jobs? How do we find new jobs in areas where we need them, namely in education, in the social field, in care? No, you are not concerned about finding as many perfide ways as possible to take people away! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You are specializing in this with always new tax proposals!]] So I would now be with the 24-hour caregiver, who has been talking a lot about, and I would like to bring him into this room now, because I do not think we are aware of how these women in households usually live with us. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can't you say anything about the subject?]] They work 24 hours – that's what their job is: 24-hour care – they work around the clock, they care for our parents, our grandparents, they are there every minute. They are sometimes quite overwhelmed with their solitude, with what they have to do with activities. And where are their children? – Your children are at home, in Romania, in Hungary, in Slovakia. But that's not because they don't like their children with them, but because first of all the job doesn't allow it and second of all, they probably couldn't afford to bring their children to them. It is also not possible to have the children around you in addition to the 24-hour care. These women usually come home every two weeks or once a month. Only then can they see their children. In addition, they communicate via Skype. They feel lonely here and find no connection. [[Abg. Deimek: And what does this have to do with the height?]] – Yes, I am now explaining what this has to do with the topic of your current hour. They claim that these women can simply be deprived of the family allowance. These women, who pay as much taxes and have a right to family allowances, are no longer to receive them, because you do not think they deserve them. [[Abg. Deimek: That means in Romania everything costs as much as we do?! This is a cost compensation, Madame!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And the ÖVP – because you are also intervening, Mr Rädler – the ÖVP is more involved in this perfidious game of taking away. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! Incredible! They conduct domestic discrimination!]] It's incredible – incredible! - what you've been doing for months. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They are bringing a group of people in discredit that we need here in our country urgently. People who work in care bring you into discredit. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a grunt! It's getting worse!]] You don't? – Then let’s talk about whether these persons who are registered with the Chamber of Commerce are actually independent! I'd say they're top-level self-employed. They work around the clock and are not self-employed. Please, let's deal with this!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8935	Ladies and gentlemen, you must now come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8950	There are so many questions, so you don't play people against each other permanently, but we take care of the questions that really ensure that we have a stable social state!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8977	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e8999	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Today, at the beginning of this plenary session, we are debating the issue of social state, labour market, jobs, pension systems, on a proposal from the FPÖ. I believe that all the forces here in Parliament are pursuing the goal of having a safe pension system, only the recipes for this are, of course, different. That is why there are also elections, dear citizens, to give direction. We have different ideas. The proposal we make to NEOS over and over again is to reform the pension system in such a way that the young people, the next generation, can also rely on it. I have three children myself, many of us have children; these and also the many young people there at the top of the gallery have a right to keep the pension system. However, this assurance is no longer given today, and that is why we need to redesign the system. Other countries have achieved this, in a multi-party consensus. We – I look towards Mr Loacker – looked at this in Sweden and they did it in a consensus of five parties at the time. Even if today they have to re-evaluate and re-adjust, representatives of these parties meet again and again from then, four or five to the number, which, twenty years later, can repeatedly dispute what is to be done. We should finally do that. In Sweden, the Social Democrats were there, the Conservatives were there. That's not a devil's thing they did there. They have managed to transform the system accordingly into a so-called Flexi-Pension. People can decide for themselves whether to retire at the age of 61 or 69. Each citizen receives a letter every year in an orange envelope, which says what he/she gets when he/she retires at 61, what if he/she retires at 65 or 69 years of age. I believe, Minister, that we have taken steps in this direction, and we should only take a firm lead in this direction. But you lack this determination! Instead, you will distribute to people who receive €30 000 pension 14 times a year after a lazy cow trade, as in the last few centuries of pensions. Of course, people in our country do not understand that you do not abolish the special pensions, the luxury pensions, or that the city of Vienna retains its special pension rights until the year 2042. It's easy to say, that's a sourry, that's what we've got to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9029	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be moderate in your way of expression. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9044	Yes, I will, but we will continue to fight against these abuses, because they are abuses! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The topic of labour market and jobs: Yes, a lot is now being discussed, and I ask the SPÖ and the ÖVP, once brave competitors on the way for a strong Europe: What happened to you? What happened to ÖVP and SPÖ? What about the former European parties? They were on their way to a strong Europe, because it is Europe where we are going to live, even in the years and decades to come, and then you have noticed that there is a counterwind. And what did you say, the ÖVP, the SPÖ? - Ui, a counterwind! Can we put this in a back wind? And then you have made a turnaround, and today you are spirit drivers against the European idea of unification. [[Abg. Nicer: Why, please?]] They come every week with other proposals that are hardy: For example, the closure of the labour market. Of course, some of us have problems in the border area with people coming across the border, but we have also benefited tremendously. [[Abg. Kickl: One could also call this control!]] There is light and shadow, and you are currently only discussing the shadow and you are playing with the fears of the people. I know from FPÖ that she has always done with spreading fears of voices, that is her business model, that SPÖ and ÖVP agree on this choir, which is a real disappointment. “The press” writes today that there is no other country among 28 EU countries that has benefited more from the European Single Market, there is no country in Europe that has benefited from the enlargement of the East. [[Keeping up a newspaper article]] [[Abg. Kickl: But this is a modest success balance of the EU!]] Our parents, grandparents are cared for by over 50,000 nursing workers from the east. You, ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ, must say that if you continue to pursue a sectoral decomposition, that will no longer be possible. You have to tell the families that the 24-hour care in this form will no longer be possible. Have the courage to tell the families! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You're a wretched rosin picker, totally unresponsible! In which world do these young people want to live? [[Call the FPÖ: Watch out! Watch out!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do not be afraid!]] On 28 islands with barbed wire fence all around? - No! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You are constantly arousing fears!]] The prosperity, the quality of life, the peace on this planet, but especially on this continent, will only be cultivated in one with one another, but at the moment you will fuel the opposite. The FPÖ has started with this, and SPÖ and ÖVP are now voting in favour. That is fundamental, that is a robbery of the future, that is not responsible to young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9191	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9212	Madam President. High house! Some of the left half of the empire have asked what immigration has to do with the social state and the jobs, and since we want to talk objectively, we are going to highlight what this has to do with each other. Today we have heard from Minister Stöger that we want to create 20 000 new jobs with new programmes and ideas. On the other hand, if you leave 100,000 new immigrants to the country in a year, then you can probably calculate that these two things have something to do with each other very well. If you say you want to save pensions by leaving immigrants in the country, by deliberately attracting people from all kinds of countries, who then pay our pensions here, you have to ask the question on the other hand: Can these people even pay these pensions? And if the head of the AMS, Mr. Kopf, says that 80 percent of those who have come now will still be unemployed in ten years, that 80 percent are uneducated, that some cannot even read and write, then one knows that these people will never pay our pensions. On the contrary, these people will also be burdened with the social system. That's why it doesn't matter if we leave these doors open on one side. That is exactly the question we should clarify: Do we want to keep the doors open, let us continue to let anyone who wants to come in, despite the problems that we have then? The government has forged a programme to send back now all those who cannot stay here. – But that will not happen! This will not happen because there are certain loopholes that are exploited by certain people. I just mention one example: the mass rape by Iraqis. Iraqis can be sent back if they have no asylum grounds, but as soon as Iraqis rape a woman in Austria, they can no longer be sent back. Why? – In Iraq, rape is the death penalty. That is why it is not reasonable to send these people back. – Only to understand a little bit how the logic of this government works. That is to say, we are creating an arrangement with which we can reward someone who commits a crime because he can no longer be postponed. It is precisely these mechanisms that we are facing. Another example: In 2015, there were 5,000 voluntary leaves. I've been talking to someone who's organizing this, and he says, That's totally strange. People from Afghanistan, Iraq, are in Austria for a day and then want to leave voluntarily. They get money and drive home. He couldn't explain it until he researched it. Do you know what the background of these voluntary trips is? – These are the tugs; the tugs who came to Austria, who had 20 people or more in their luggage, who stayed here for a day, completed their work and then got money from Austria to drive home and pick up the next team. – Just to get a little bit of a sense of what is going on here in our country. This is the problem we are facing, and politics is looking away! Politics looks away instead of looking at it and facing the population, protecting the population. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The population expects policy to reduce misdevelopments. There are, of course, people looking for protection, there are people who have been persecuted, and there are also people who need asylum with us, but that is not 100 000 a year, either – according to the upper limit – 40 000 a year, but that is quite a few. It is perhaps 1,000 or 2,000 people a year who actually need protection. The rest comes across many, many safe countries and simply choose the country that offers it the best opportunities, and that is now Austria, Germany and Sweden. It's not about us shutting down our social system – which is what many have stimulated and mean: we're making our social system worse for everyone! – but the issue in a social state is always: We can only obtain a social system if there are many benefits and few who really need it. As soon as all these benefits want to be used, it is as with an insurance: The system collapses. – You have to understand. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] But you, Mr Minister, seem to have not yet understood this, because on the one hand, you are setting up measures to create employment or new dwellings in order to preserve the social state, but on the other hand you leave a door open across borders, which is exactly what makes it countercarriage. That's why, Minister: You are, in fact, the graves of the social state you wish to receive! That is exactly the problem of this government. The SPÖ always puts itself and says: We want to preserve the social state, and at the same time you open a door, which will kill exactly that social state. - It's got to stop! That is what the population is expecting, and I too expect a regular minister to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9285	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9307	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! I would like to return to the current hour, “Safe jobs and pensions instead of mass immigration into the social system”, according to Mr Lugar, because I think it is an issue that is important; I am entirely of the opinion of the Freedom Party. I only asked myself the question when I read the title: What does the Freedom Party want with it? Does it want to deal seriously with the major issues that concern us, including unemployment, including pensions? [[Abg. Peter Worm: Of course!]] I also asked myself the question of what one has to do with the other, because it wasn't quite logical for me; I'm going to explain it a little bit. Or does the Freedom Party want to paint black and white again? Do you want to divide the world again: we and the others? Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, if I listen to you and some other speakers in this way, I think: Unfortunately, it was once again the latter. I have not heard many answers that you can give to these big questions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's where you should have listened!]] - I've been listening to you. [[Abg. New builder: Then give us some!]] Mr Muchitsch told you in his speech that you also voted in favour of EU enlargement. The Freedom Party was there at the time! [[Abg. New builder: EU enlargement does not mean Africa!]] They were there. They also know that Austria has spent as long as possible on the transitional arrangements. We did this. Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, where the Freedom Party was not involved – and this should also be known to the spectators – was in the decision of the wage and social dumping law. [[Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kickl.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But we also called for this: extend the transitional periods!]] Wherever it is possible to raise the voice, you are silent, but when it comes to playing people against each other, you are always very loud to hear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to add the following, because it is difficult to discuss this – Mrs Schwentner has also mentioned it –: You mix asylum with immigration, you mix EU free movement with the red and white red card, and it is very difficult to conduct a differentiated, really facts-based discussion when everything is simply mixed in your speeches. If you were to argue with facts, then you would know exactly – and perhaps the audience might rather understand this – that it is not possible, for example, to "immigrate" the pension system as you write it. You all know very well that the pension system is an insurance principle. Only when you pay into the pension system will you get a benefit from it. [[Abg. New builder: Yes, but if I..., I can't pay anything!]] According to a study that you all know, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 foreigners – generally said – paid €3 billion to pension insurance and only €821 million from insurance. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Insanity!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is actually a very logical thing!]] A similar picture can be seen in the compensation allowance. Mr Neubauer, this is so important to you, then perhaps you will listen to me once! – 217 940 people received a compensation allowance in Austria last year, with € 930 million spent on it. [[Abg. Neubauer: Enjoy!]] Of these, 19,025 people from third countries and 6,805 people from EU countries were spent €97 million and €35 million respectively. So it's really not like you always claim that you're "immigrating" into a system, but that's rights acquired by insurance benefits. [[Abg. New builder: I didn’t say that at all! You didn't understand!]] The same thing, Mr Neubauer – and this also applies to colleagues Hammer von der ÖVP – applies to the topic of family aid: Family benefits are paid to people because they are paying into the system. The service providers shall pay service providers' contributions to the family compensation fund. So one cannot cheat, but one acquires it; one acquires claims. The same applies to unemployment benefit, ladies and gentlemen: People receive unemployment benefit only if they have been paid into the system if they have acquired expectations through their performance, which they have also provided in Austria. And I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: Where do you see an immigration into our social system? I can't see that. The receipt of social benefits, as I have said, is only possible if, with benefits, with contributions paid in the systems, one actually acquires expectations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] [[Abg. Kickl: A pretty simplified representation!]] That's it. There you can now say what you want, Mr Kickl: It is! I am right if you say that safe jobs and pensions are important – I fully agree with you! –, I just think the paths we want to go are different. Mr Strolz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of We want sensible measures to combat unemployment; Mr Stöger has referred to her today. With the employment bonus we will create jobs, I am convinced of that. [[Abg. New builder: Yes, if you had at least a way!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But we have heard that for years!]] [[Abg. Kickl: We've heard that for ten years, and the valley trip continues!]] The OCTs also have a large part to play in bringing young people into apprenticeships, into employment. It's not bad. There are young people who can mature. That is quite, very important for many young people – whether they are foreigners or Austrians. If you have the right to enter an OCTA with us, they can also mature there. That's very important. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is our way to take sensible action. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Continued sausages is your way!]] Your way is to always paint black and white and create resentments, but you have no answers. I am convinced that people will recognize the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9574	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9606	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, the title of this current hour suggests in the usual FPÖ manner a causal connection, which is certainly not given in this black and white form. [[Call the FPÖ:Blue White!]] I was yesterday at a lecture by AMS chief who reported that there are currently 15 000 asylum seekers reported to the AMS of this wave of refugees. It is gratifying that, unlike other countries, we were able to integrate 15.1 percent into the labour market in the first year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Wow! We have always celebrated it.]] Nevertheless, we are discussing an important issue today, which is also very busy with us. Clearly, safe jobs create only entrepreneurs. They have demonstrated that they can do so well in economically difficult times with the record employment of 3.6 million people. The fact is that we have too high an unemployment rate. Our problem is that more than 50 percent of our unemployed do not have further training. However, we also do not want to hide the inconsistencies that use our social system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: From the statistics you want them, we know!]] That is why we cannot occupy these 70 000 open spaces either. A survey by companies shows that entrepreneurs – 74 percent were in this survey – have problems finding suitable employees for their open jobs. Therefore, the decision on compulsory training was important until the 18th century. Year of life, but also the labour integration measures. And we have already set decisive incentives for employment before the Government Convention. Mr Hammer has already mentioned the tax reform, but I would also like to mention the best bidder principle, the threshold value regulation as well as the additional wage reduction of a billion euros and, last but not least, a very successful start-up package, a start-up policy with strategy and far-reaching views. For the creation of jobs, it was extremely important that this government agreement should include the economy, and that is what we see. With the employment bonus, with the increase in the research premium, with the abolition of the cumulation principle and, above all, with the flexibility of working time, the entrepreneurs have become involved. Of course, you, Mr Minister, still have many construction sites with regard to entrepreneurship in order to create jobs. I would like to point out a modern worker protection that is adapted to digital and automated production, but also to the wishes of employees for more self-responsibility and self-determination. I have to say that this is also annoyed when I tell employees about some employee protection problem they should pay attention to, and then they believe that this is a shock for me. We also have a lot to do in the field of labour inspection law. We should finally implement the points on which the Court of Auditors' criticism is based, otherwise this will lead to a distortion of competition which we want to avoid. Work inspectors must also be trained better. They should not be the enemies of entrepreneurs, but their partners for employment. They also need experience in the field of social competence, because in the course of the operations, it is rather in the direction of employee horror. The entrepreneurs do not stop this treatment, but it is not a motivation to grow stronger and employ more employees. In short, on the preferred topic of FPÖ, mass immigration into the social system. To this end, I would like to say: I would also prefer a controlled increase in high potential for our labour market, but unfortunately the world is not as peaceful as we would like it to be. We are a small, rich country and therefore have not only an international commitment but also a moral one. We have already done a lot to get the inflow under control, but we know that this is to be regulated at EU level. If you really take the issue seriously, ladies and gentlemen, then you support the Foreign Rights Package, support the Integration Package, agree to the Free Trade Agreement for more export and also the measures of the current Government Convention, because all these measures have been considered very positive by the economic experts for the creation of work and employment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9670	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9692	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear spectators here in the hall and at home! Today I have to give Mrs Schwentner the right of the Greens; I rarely do so. [[Abg. Rädler: Green-blue is on the march!]] Of course, one should be happy as a freeman when one looks at how red and black take over our positions and demands in the Sunday speeches, but it is a huge marketing gag à la Kern and short, without substance, owes only the current bad survey results. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] As has been said, the ÖVP is suddenly in favour of a ceiling on minimum security, the ÖVP is suddenly in favour of limiting family aid, the SPÖ has suddenly recognized that the addition of foreign employees leads to wage and social dumping in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:... Eurofighter!]] These are very late findings and, as I said, in reality a huge shame, and I hope that the Austrians will know at the next election where they will have to make their cross so that these problems are really solved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Rolle backward!]] Let's get to the real issue, the social ratio: More than 30 percent of GDP is already invested in social expenditure. So that you can imagine: These are already well over €100 billion a year in Austria, which flows into these social pots, 35 percent of them – that is, about €35 billion – from pure tax benefits, and, of course, a lot of benefits from contributors. Maybe briefly explains: Of course, a pot from which you want to distribute funds must be filled. If the people are employed in the Czech Republic or Slovakia and there they pay social contributions, then of course the pot in Austria will not be filled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Honey: They don't get any benefits either!]] You should understand that. You can only distribute what you took before. If that's what someone should have forgotten: In 2016, Austria made a minimum of €4.5 billion in the budget, or even €9 billion, depending on the budget. That means our pots are empty anyway. The social ratio is very short: We would like to talk about figures from 2015, partly with 2014 values. In March 2017, reality looks much more bitter and worse, and the hole is much bigger. Our social system is strong like an imperial ensemble, and, of course, the unrestricted migration of recent years and the asylum chaos 2015/2016 are due to this development. A number very briefly: The population of Austria is 8.8 million, including 1.4 million. [[Abg. Loacker: How much percent German?]] A few more numbers: There are 490 000 unemployed, 39 percent of whom are foreigners, 340 000 are currently in minimum security, 190 000 are in emergency aid and 80 000 asylum seekers are in basic care. – So much about expenditure in the social system. Let us come to the issue of minimum security – a subject that we have been trying to make clear to you here in plenary since 2014 both freely and personally! I can still remember the statements of red and black, which now suddenly look quite different. However, you should have recognized the problem already in 2014. The current development, as you can see from the Court of Auditors' report, is simply shocking in Vienna. Vienna expects expenditure of €1.6 billion, thousands of files lost, no controls, no ID checks, there were phantom payouts and, and – and this only concerns Vienna, but the system is the same throughout Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of minimum security, even my forecasts of three years ago have been far exceeded. We are currently talking about costs of €3 billion in minimum security – €3 billion! – and everyone is watching how the development progresses from year to year. Of course, 90 percent of the countries entitled to asylum are in minimum security, completely clear. I think it is very bad, Mr Minister – and you admitted it in the last Committee – that you do not have any current figures, data, facts at all. There are even federal states – currently Carinthia – who do not even collect precise figures and data on minimum security, and they also write this in response to requests. That means that this is a blind flight of the Minister of Social Affairs without end. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Another issue which is not new, including in the field of minimum security: 50 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries are not Austrians, i.e. currently – trend strongly rising – 1.5 billion € are already running to foreigners each year. I have also mentioned the community level and can mention one more example from my community: In my community, social expenditure in the field of minimum security has quadrupled in five years. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: We liberals clearly demand that social expenditure is available for those who have also paid in this social pot, namely for the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9818	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9840	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Some have already mentioned it: It is a bit difficult to find a red thread in this debate. [[Abg. New builder: It's hard for the greens anyway to find a red thread!]] Everything that we have in some way on problems is being packed in. [[Abg. Rädler: You found him with the Eurofighters!]] I'd like to try this way: The changes in Austria over the last ten to 15 years and also the speed of these changes are certainly stressful and exaggerating for many people. This overload puts people under pressure, and they feel insecure, deeply insecure. There are several reasons, because there are many changes, but one of the reasons is certainly the change in the labour market. People like us here probably can hardly imagine having a job from school to retirement, but for decades this was a kind of scaffolding in Austria, on which one has built his life. On this basis, a stable workplace, people have founded their families, created their living space, tried to develop their lives. Today, an average employment ratio is 1.5 years, and these 1.5 years on average are constantly interrupted by periods of longer or shorter unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are many – unfortunately very many at the moment – who at some point do not manage to find a job again in this job spiral, and these are no longer just those who, through decades of hard physical work at 55 or 58 years of age, can no longer be able to walk through the labour market, but they are also more and more highly qualified, well-qualified people. So much for the uncertainty of the people; the other issue is their income situation. For decades, it was assumed in Austria that a certain amount of wealth, a certain amount of material security can be created by working hard and hard. And where are we today? – Government parties say it is their goal to impose a minimum wage of €1500. That's €1,200 net. 1 200 € net for full-time work – on such an income you can not build a life perspective, because the wage increases are – you can see that in collective contracts – because not rapid, but you stay in the lower income segment if you are inside. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Winter]] When people with such low income become unemployed, they get 55 percent of their last income. This is far less than the minimum level of security, and thus they become necessarily minimum insurance beneficiaries. This is the next problem we have: Unemployment leads hundreds of thousands People go to poverty right away. This situation is unsustainable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From such income, ladies and gentlemen, one should then finance living – we have all just read it: Living has become 68 percent more expensive in recent years – you should pay health care – not everything pays the insurance, you know that very well – you should take good care of your children – afternoon care, follow-up lessons, sports week. How's all this going on? The FPÖ says that foreigners are guilty of all of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And what are the government parties doing now? – They say that the Romanian children are to blame for all this, and they have to take away the 150 € family allowance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you: Who is to blame for not having an existential minimum wage? The foreigners? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: SPÖ and ÖVP!]] Who is responsible for unemployment benefit being so low? The foreigners? – No, it is the government policy of the past years that has led us to where we are now. [[Abg. Deimek:... ideological world picture!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need a policy that ensures stable and fair working conditions and incomes from which people can live. We need to live in a quiet place and not talk about it for years. We need educational institutions that give all children in our country the best opportunities. That's what we should focus on.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9946	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e9967	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It is always so well-calculated when the FPÖ proposes the topic of the current hour; then the Quintessence: The foreigners are to blame. And you've done a lot, because now SPÖ and ÖVP see that as well: The foreigners are to blame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Therefore, German Chancellor Kern wants a labour market audit if EU citizens want to come to work in Austria. Minister of Defense Doskozil expresses concern for crane insurance and wants co-insurance to be abolished for members of the EU foreign country – who do not exist at all. And you, Minister Stöger, want to exclude the employment bonus if a company also employs a citizen from an EU country. This is the idea of Austria's red, black and blue as an economic island. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Wrong! Not from us!]] You think you're alive on this island, but I'm telling you, it's a dream world. If you look closely at the Austrian labour market, you will see that the problems are essentially home-made. We have as many open jobs as never before, only the job seekers do not fit into these open jobs, because the qualification is not right. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You disputed that, Mr. Loacker! That's what you've been fighting!]] In other words, we need to talk about training, training, education in general, but not about foreigners, because there are enough Austrians who do not have compulsory education and are therefore unemployed. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I've been saying that for years!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] The number of job openings, which have increased by 37 percent over the previous year, does not decrease when we quit the EU. It will not be easier to occupy open positions if you don't let anyone in, and it won't be easier to hinder someone who comes to work in Austria with even more bureaucratic obstacles. Actually, the government wanted to achieve debureaucratisation, but it just doesn't make it. This red and black populism drive, which is building up right now, is becoming an economic danger to the country. We also have a massive problem without immigration, and you can see this when you look at long-term unemployment. Long-term unemployed are not those who came from Syria and Iraq last year and last year. Long-term unemployed are people who have been here for a very long time. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... do not forget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] We have an increasing number of emergency workers. There are people who spend ten years, 15 years, 20 years in need, because it is often too attractive to stay in the care of unemployment insurance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In reality, the reference period for unemployment insurance benefits has long been limited to two years and people should then be transferred to minimum insurance, so that there are not two social security systems in addition to each other, but, as the Court of Auditors has long called for, a common social security system. It is also degressively designed for unemployment insurance, which means that at the beginning you get a very good unemployment benefit and that goes down in stages when you are longer unemployed. In the EU, all countries have this, except two, namely Belgium and Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Once you have landed in the comfort zone with us, you can stay there. For example, if Mr Neubauer from FPÖ brings the scrapping pension system into the context of immigration, for what your party calls for for pensions, what you demand of minimum pension, this would cost €9 billion extra every year. This money doesn't exist, it doesn't have anyone, and neither does your party. Your social wing is making a policy of which, fortunately, the economic wing does not know anything, because your colleagues would tear your head off. If Mr Stöger says that the Austrian pension system is an international model, then I can only ask him to look at the EU Commission's country-specific recommendations, which were published yesterday, because for the time being, we have to adapt the retirement age to the increasing life expectancy that we need to increase the age of women's pensions more quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] You can read this not only with the EU Commission, but also with the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, but also on the economic island on which you and the Federal Government are located, because you shoot off, of course you do not look at the experts across the borders. SPÖ and ÖVP are unable to solve labour market policy homework, and today has become visible: The FPÖ can't either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10102	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10123	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the topic of "Safe jobs and pensions instead of mass immigration into the social system". Many of my previous speakers felt that there was no connection that had been chosen from the theme so that one cannot discuss this in one. However, I very much believe that there is a very close link between the fact that it is simply and decisively incompatible to maintain a sustainablely funded social system on the one hand and to open up borders on the other. In other words, a social system that should be sustainable for the citizens of a country also needs protection, because it is not infinitely taxable. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] They can all probably still remember the slogan “We Create This” of August 2015. The then SPÖ Federal Chancellor Faymann said that it was impossible to lock people out, the current vice chancellor even said that we need a “return in thinking”, and Foreign Minister Kurz said: Why the excitement, the average immigrant of today is more educated than the average Austrian. [[call to the FPÖ.]] These are statements that point to a collective state failure. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] No one in the Federal Government seems to have been able to estimate the extent of this event, and even today we do not know whether it was the tip of the iceberg. If you listen to the Maltese ambassador, he says, millions of people are waiting to come to Europe via the sea as soon as the sea becomes calmer, then we must be aware that this problem is enormously large and impossible for a social state like Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! “The refugees will change Austria”, said “profile” in September 2015, and this is true because uncontrolled immigration mainly threatens the future of our children in the social system, the future of our youth. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... worse, unfortunately God!]] That's not just my opinion, that's what Hans-Werner Sinn, one of the most renowned economists in Germany, said; he said we all had to work longer so that we can afford this refugee crisis. This also corresponds to a forecast by the Ministry of Finance, according to which prosperity in the country is reduced by the wave of refugees by 2060. That is to say, it is reality that immigration, regardless of human suffering, has to be aware of what many people are doing, but we also need to be aware that some want to benefit from this system – and that thanks to the SPÖ can also be very good; Tag Vienna, where one comes to the money tap without a photo ID – that this refugee problem will permanently employ us and the following generations. One of the problems is the qualifications of immigrants. For example, if there is a problem with Afghans that half of them do not have compulsory schooling, 10 percent are illiterate, then it will be very, very difficult to integrate these people into the work process. We also know that, since the fall of the Iron Curtain, especially among those who have only a compulsory school degree, unemployment has risen from 9.2 percent to 27 percent. In other words, poor qualified people have enormous difficulty getting into the labour market, and digitalization – Workworld 4.0 – makes it even more difficult. So we have a huge problem, and I am curious about how the Social Minister will succeed, how the AMS will succeed in integrating someone who comes to Austria at the age of 35 as an illiterate, into the system that he himself can grasp. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: The current hour is precisely devoted to the right subject, because the contexts can and must not be denied.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10187	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10208	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Current hour: “Safe jobs and pensions instead of mass immigration into the social system”. There are political debates in which one has to decide, both in economic and social terms. There is no need to study to know that the enormously uncontrolled immigration costs Austria far more than it benefits. The social fabric of our state, ladies and gentlemen, comes to the fore and forth. Our customs, our culture are being questioned. What kind of development is that? – I strongly reject this development in this form. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic ……]] When you have an eye open, you can see what happens to our social system. Yes, it is true that immigration is currently taking place to a large extent in our social state. Austria cannot afford this development in this form, and this development is also the domestic population vis-à-vis unfair, but it does not interest so many rulers here; it is not at all interested in it. We have huge problems, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain health policy in this form, to maintain security policy in this form, to maintain education policy and to further expand the education system, to create durable homes, to ensure secure jobs – there is a massive displacement competition – and to ensure secure pensions for those people who have worked hard for their lives. It is said everywhere that we have to save, but when it comes to our social system, it seems to be a self-service shop for non-Austrians. This pot is more than empty, ladies and gentlemen. The AMS is becoming a modern travel agency for immigrants. For all of us here, it should be obvious that labour and social policy should be our first priority for our people in our country and not for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10257	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10278	Mr President. Mr. Minister! ‘Safe jobs and pensions’ means: On the one hand, Austria is characterised by a good economic situation, with high quality in mind; on the other hand, there is a long-term problem of high unemployment with a high level of self-employed workers. This ceiling is also based on the full access of EU workers to the domestic labour market. The already existing problems now include asylum-seekers, mostly economic refugees, who are pushing into our social system on the domestic labour market or – without ever making a contribution. Especially on our social system, refugee problems have great influence, and it cannot be assumed that long-term unemployed people who have paid into the social system are being reduced because of economic refugees. The generosity we have so far exercised to those who have not yet done anything for our state or our social system must therefore be reconsidered. The limit of the tolerable seems to be exceeded. If the refugee problem seems to be falling at the moment, then the shadow is. The problem is far from the table and our social system will continue to be heavily burdened in the future. Our people have a right to work so that it is urgently necessary to create jobs with sustainable measures. A successful reduction of unemployed people is logically accompanied by a financial strengthening of our social system. A reduction in unemployment can only be achieved by strengthening the domestic economy. Many of the problems facing our economy – such as sanctions against Russia – are also attributed to the EU. Conclusion: There is a need for massive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10315	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10337	Mr President. Minister! High house! Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman, Nobel Prizewinner for Economy, once said: “You can have a social state – and you can have open borders. But you can’t have both at the same time.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that is a very central statement and a guiding principle that can be addressed. Considering this principle in the current situation, given the crisis that we have behind us, and the crisis that we are still in front of us, one comes to a single clear conclusion, which reads: Limit to because otherwise social state is breaking! This conclusion is logical and absolutely obvious. What we need is closed borders. Closed borders do not mean that we close everything, rickerracke, and carry out a policy of decommissioning, but that we control exactly who comes in. [[Congratulations with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] We know that there are still more than enough people who have lost nothing – nothing at all. I don't understand something. In the context where foreign policy and domestic policy are now being held, there are some things that can be supported and that are intended to continue to support, namely the secondary centres and the rejection of rejected asylum seekers. That's right, and I think you have to continue this path. If you continue this path, you can see that the secondary centres also cost money, not too little. You can't put the people in there and then close the door and believe the problem doesn't exist anymore. We have to bring very massive money into the repatriation, into the forced repatriation, and we have to make sure that we create a target country in the Orient. Why does Austria not go forward and boast in the EU and say: Okay, we're renting zones in Libya or in another Arab country? I think it's feasible to take money into your hands. The money is there, there the supply costs only a twenty-seventh of what it costs here. Why don't we as a country do that? Why don't we send all the people in sheltered refugee zones on site? We always hear of the help on the ground, but nothing happens. We hear confessions in Brussels, but nothing happens. – Well, then, as Austria, which has done more than enough anyway, we take the matter in hand and do it! I do not understand that no actions have yet been taken in this direction. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hagen, Mr Steinbichler and Mr Doppler on his work.]] Again: We must, when we think about it, close the borders, because otherwise we will not move on. We come to the Milton-Friedman’s realization that this will not happen. We're breaking the social state. We have more than enough problems in the country: We have the pension system; we have an extremely high rate of unemployment; we have the health system that needs to be reestablished; we have the additional labour costs that the businesses are pressing down and eventually strangled; and we have primarily a responsibility for Austria, which we should finally meet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10397	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:41:53]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10418	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10661	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 and points 9 to 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10685	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 101, FPÖ 94, Green 79 as well as NEOS and Team Stronach each 41 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 21 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall come to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this proposal on speaking time to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:43:14]] 1. Point Report of the Federal Government's Foreign Policy Committee on the 2015 Foreign and European Policy Report (III-334/1479, D.B.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Prevent financing of violent conflicts in the procurement of raw materials (1482, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10742	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First word message: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I shall perhaps join a little in what the previous debate has brought, because it was drawn by a real refusal over a large part of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this refusal of reality has reached dubious levels for some political groups. I will make the speeches of the NEOS Revue happen: It is just as if immigration, as if mass immigration, as if asylum abuse had nothing to do with development in Austria, the crises, the financial problems, the deterioration in health care. It is as if it would be totally irrelevant for the health care offer to add 100 000 or 105 000 or 200,000 people who do not pay anything in this system. We've heard of numbers that were absurdly distorted. For example, one of the SPÖ's colleagues made us aware that foreigners are paying much more into the pension system than they say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Yes, do you know why this is happening? – This is why foreigners usually do not immigrate as pensioners but as workers, but usually become Austrian citizens during their working life and then take up pension as Austrian citizens. As a result, they have a relatively high reference share in the pension. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Because they paid!]] But that doesn't change anything. If I have foreigners registered as foreigners, and then they become Austrians, they fall out of the system. Then they simply don't refer to anything, and then, of course, I come to absurd numbers. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But they pay into the system! You don't understand!]] Mrs. Colleague, I understand. You just don't want to display the statistics correctly and read them correctly. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You don't want to understand!]] I now come back to the foreign and European policy report, the issue of refusal of reality: As always, the report is very informative and good and has rightly devoted one third of its place to Europe's question – Austria in the European Union. This part is written, however, regardless of what Mr Foreign Minister said and what many others had said by the government parties, as if he had been written by Mr Strolz or by Othmar Karas for me. The year 2015 was the year in which all of us, perhaps with the exception of Mr Strolz and some others, had to be made clear that throughout the European Union the worm system is inside in a way that we must cry out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] As we move on to the agenda and strive to the usual phrases as in previous years – only soluble within the framework of the European concept and strengthening the European idea and so on – it is denial of reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is the reason why this chapter – but I do not want to overexaminate you now – is almost stroltian. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is in a certain conflict with the statements of the Foreign Minister, which he made yesterday, where he himself made it clear that a reform of the EU is inevitable in terms of its head and members. This is clear to everyone except perhaps my colleague Strolz. [[Abg. Stroll: More, more!]] - That's my last mention. I hope we get a corresponding PR offer back. [[Abg. Stroll: We're organizing this!]] Let us come to this problem of mass immigration: This leads Europe to change its face in a way that is unmistakable. We are in the process that cities in Austria, in Germany, align themselves with the cities in France – Lyon, Grenoble, Lille – to the north of France. Whoever wants to, let him say that. Who wants to see much of Europe transformed into Exclaves of the Third World, let him say that and give people pure wine. Who wants to discuss this or not to take note of it and says: We don't talk about it at all, that's hog, exclusion, poorest play out against the poorest, we just have to integrate!, he should tell people openly. He's supposed to say: I don't see the problem, the problem is not there, the cities look different, but it's much better than before. [[Abg. Stroll: There are problems, but other solutions!]] If I say that we have a right not to become Lille, Grenoble or Saint-Denis in the north of Paris – I hope these mentioned cities are not evil for me – then I must demand measures and call the guilty ones. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To a large extent, the culprits are the totally failing EU institutions. I cannot speak of border protection, border control and the creation of sovereignty across the border as a means of combating mass immigration, while at the same time setting all possible incentives for people to come here. We have the perverse system that we do everything we can to attract them to give the message: Whoever's here, he's staying here. – See, for example, Ceuta in the last days: The border is violently broken up, the people are in the European Union and stay there. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, inconceivable!]] Do you think, somewhere in the European Union, there have been measures or pressure that the Spaniards are sending these people back to Morocco? You think you've come to the Moroccan government somewhere and said: Friends, you now have 24 hours to a) take back these illegal and violently broken into the European Union, b) secure your borders and prevent that from happening in the future; otherwise, there is no aid under the Mediterranean Union – minus €700 million per year for Morocco – and b) the end of the free trade agreement?- Oh, my God! I dare to say: Morocco would agree to all of this within 24 hours. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is clear, therefore, that the institutions of the European Union are not prepared and not interested in defending Europe, its borders, its interests, the social state and so on. It is therefore also obvious – in my opinion at least – that this failure must be mentioned in a foreign and European policy report. The year 2015 is the cultivation year of the failure. No one – I say it again: except for some total objectors, whose names I don't want to name again – can overlook that. [[Call the FPÖ: Know them anyway!]] I think in Austria, the government owes it to the people, to Parliament – and the parliamentarians owe it to the citizens – that these things are called by name. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm going to end up with: We cannot therefore take note of this foreign and European policy report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10963	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e10984	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign and European policy report, which is before us today, shows that we face challenges that have not even been nearer to the extent a few years ago. The European Union is naturally at a crossroads: On the one hand, we need more Europe. Member of the Hübner has now avoided taking a position on the new proposal from Strache as regards a common European army – even with Austrian participation, of course, while respecting neutrality. I am pleased when the FPÖ is for more Europe, perhaps we still hear this from a speaker today. Unfortunately, the FPÖ Klubobmann cannot speak because it is prevented. I just want to say it: I am pleased when statements are made for more Europe on a day like today, where other speeches are also given by the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, the founding fathers of the European Union, especially from our party family, always felt that the European Union can only work if the idea of subsidiarity remains alive. So we need not only more and more Europe, but also less Europe in some areas. We need to see where we find better solutions nationally, and there we do not need European solutions. These are the principles of the Austrian People's Party since 1945. [[Abg. Kickl: times more, sometimes less!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] We have now also committed this in our programme. Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, we have also noted there that it is our ultimate goal to come to a European army. This is where the ÖVP now covers with the FPÖ. I am so glad that the FPÖ has clearly defined itself here, because we need this balance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Call the FPÖ:To defend!]] We are concerned about supranational solutions to protect the EU's external borders. There, where this fails, we must act nationally, but European solutions are, of course, better on the issue of refugees and on other major issues. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Only there are not!]] This is of course true if, for example, I am thinking about climate change. Where it does not succeed, we act nationally. There, where the European Union has not succeeded for a time, it was Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz, who became active. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The EU still does not make it!]] Remember the closure of the Western Bar Route: How was he criticized at the beginning! And how is he now even praised by Angela Merkel at the CDU's party meeting? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is important to have the courage to move forward. This is the foreign policy for which Sebastian is brief. Another area concerns the granting of social benefits: The European Union is strong only if the national states remain strong. We must not allow Austria to be weakened as a very strong nation within these 28 EU Member States when it comes to our health system, our social system, our transfers. I would like to say to you on the family allowance: As to the fact that we are now starting to regulate the services that go abroad, I am very happy personally. [[Abg. New builder: Have you already said that to Karas?]] Why am I glad? – I wanted to do this as the Secretary of State for Finance in 2010, but I didn’t do it. [[Abg. Kickl: Who prevented it?]] We will now be able to do so because we will now also have the support of social democracy. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are you sure?]] I'll tell you: There are huge differences in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] – Yes, because we are a family party, we want us to take our laws seriously. Mr Kogler – sitting in the last row, actually your place would be in the first row – I don't know what happened within the greens that you have now been relocated so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Maybe the carnival Tuesday was too long that it's better to stay in the dark somehow, but good. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] What I want to say is: Family aid is not an income component. Mr Kogler, the family allowance is also not an insurance benefit, but the family allowance is by definition a benefit in order to contribute to the cost of living. [[Further call of the Abg. Kogler.]] There are, of course, huge differences in the cost of living, for example, between Austria and Romania, or also compared to our immediate neighbor Hungary. You can see how high there are the children's benefits: in Romania per month 20 €, in Hungary 39 €. Now, when we look at this index as regards the cost of living, an employee who works as a nurse in Austria, for example, still gets a lot of family support compared to an employee who is in Hungary, but of course no longer the sum that you receive when you are in Austria together with the children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the average income in Bulgaria is less than €500 and there or in Romania the family allowance is €20, we can only do so, otherwise we dream – I am with my colleague Hübner. Either I recognize the realities in the European Union – then I have to do as we want to do – or I dream. Only: In the end, we will not be able to afford that. [[Abg. Kickl: Do!]] Therefore, this step, this change in family benefits for those whose children live abroad, is a real step. We will also move forward again, and other countries in Europe will follow us. I'm absolutely convinced of that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crucial point is that we have been working more than everyone else here in the House in recent years: How do we deal with those who come to us? How do we manage that such a thing as in 2015 never happen again? – Of course, we are following a holistic approach: Protecting the EU's external borders, doing everything to stop the flow of refugees at the EU's external borders; doing everything to ensure that there is appropriate humanitarian support on the ground. Then: From Austria, we will not be able to solve the problems that lead to escape. Think of the war conflicts in Iraq, in Syria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] None of us know when they'll end up. Of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that the European Union does more than before. But if the European Union is unable to do so, we will continue to proceed nationally. We also have opportunities in the framework of the OSCE, including in the area of conflict management. I can truly congratulate Mr Muttonen – Mr Cap and others were also present at the OSCE meeting last week in Vienna – that there is also corresponding support at parliamentary level for Sebastian Kurzin in his current role as Chairman of the OSCE – Austria has taken over the presidency. We can also do much within the framework of our international tasks. Vienna also provides a lot for international organisations as a location. There is Austria greater than its population or the area of the country. The foreign policy, which Sebastian will briefly represent, is one that is marked by strong courage and strong will to move forward and not to go behind. Sebastian Kurzdenient, in a cross-party way, our support, as we did at the OSCE meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11204	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka! The conduct of the EIA does not seem to be very courageous. It seems to be more like total change to the FPÖ policy, and especially in the case of family aid, this is true. Workers who put them into the system, and they all pay the same thing, have the right to get the same out – quite simply! It's easy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka:... Family load compensation! That's what those who don't have children pay! It's wrong what you say! It's wrong!]] It is the workers from the European Union who are doing important work here, in particular women who are doing work in Austria, which is necessary, especially in the care and care sector. [[Abg. Kickl: How's the minimum pension? – Conversely, it does not apply!]] And then to say, for the children who have to stay at home in their countries, because otherwise it is no longer possible, you get less paid out, is actually a shame, a shame to the ÖVP as a family party, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lopatka: Those who don't have children pay for it! It's wrong!]] But now back to world policy: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you all got it: Donald Trump gave his first speech to Congress a few hours ago. This speech was expected with great tension and, of course, accompanied by protests. After his verbal attacks and derailments – the word women's policy, the word minority policy – but also the derailments in his first days as President of the United States as regards the political orientation – the word "remote bans" for Muslim people – it was also important to look closely at. [[Abg. Kickl: War he hasn't started yet, like some others!]] Although he may have kept to the scriptum and somehow at least did not fade away from his thoughts, it is politically clear in what direction Trump and the USA will go if this continues: Investments, infrastructure, jobs create, of course, but also the unfair position of the USA on trade issues and, of course, the building of walls in Mexico – this one is a sign of a policy which is naturally welcomed by the FPÖ, and is not only welcomed by the FPÖ, but also by Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz. This insanity project is causing global headaches, and Sebastian Kurz has at least thought it in terms of understanding – a sense of jubilation that, from my point of view, is totally unacceptable and, above all, completely counters the neutral position of Austria's foreign policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It seems that only more is involved in the construction of walls, the construction of borders, because everything is suddenly no longer a matter of security policy – including what is necessary – it is only more about: How can I raise walls and borders? – That is something I deeply reject. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, too, spoke with his founding fathers – I hope there are also founder mothers in the ÖVP – that simply walls have been mined, torn down, borders have been dismantled, and that should in fact continue to be a clear premise of the Austrian Foreign Minister, namely, to create a situation where borders are not built, but to be dismantled. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Draw up borders in the name of security? – Rather, it would be necessary to support people on the ground, to ensure development, the rule of law, especially in countries which are not so well developed. But it goes, also starting from Donald Trump, in a completely different direction. US President Trump wants to reintroduce the so-called Global Gag Rule, and this regulation provides that US development funds are no longer to flow into the health care of women and girls. This means that education on infectious diseases, HIV prevention, AIDS prevention, Zika information centres, which are so important – including women’s and girls’ health – are being reduced worldwide and this much money, namely € 560 million, is no longer used for this. Instead of the global fight against women's and child's forced marriages, actually progressing against exploitation and discrimination against women, US President Trump goes the other way and says: [[Abg. Schimanek: Here in Austria too!]] No, health care for the whole world, for the women of this world, is on the way. That is why the Dutch Minister for Development has launched an initiative. It is called "She Decides", and tomorrow, 2nd. In March, an international conference on this subject will be held in Brussels, due to the failure of this €560 million. It is now about looking very closely at the role Austria actually plays. This is a financial contribution, and it is also a matter of continuing to promote women's and girls' health. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This seems necessary because it is precisely this regulation that is to be implemented and Europe, as a strong common Europe, must also set a clear sign against it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, in order to prevent conflicts and crises, there is still more need, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. We are now living in a very difficult, tense time. Worldwide and international developments are simply worrying. An important point is also sustainable, transparent management, especially when it comes to conflict minerals. We all know that we need certain minerals from the global south in our digitalised, electronic wealth society. And the degradation of these minerals is not only completely repulsive to children's rights and human rights, it also has the disadvantage that the revenue will buy weapons for the conflict areas. This concerns the Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe, for example, but also Colombia. If 100 kilograms of gold are sold, then this means the purchase of 7 000 rifles, and there you have to look very carefully at what the European economy, but also the Austrian economy, and especially external trade, can actually do. This system has now been concluded at European level. It is now about Austria setting out these rules and laying down clear rules as to how Austria and companies deal with the use and sale of minerals from conflict areas. This chain, as has already been said, from degradation to use in the production of raw materials from military conflict areas, is actually broken, and this is not yet transparent and clear. That is why there is also a motion for a resolution which is now referred to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs after two years of debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. All right, now we can talk about which committee is better suited, but we have already discussed it twice in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am still convinced that the Minister of Europe should also make clear rules in this regard, that there is a need for discussions at European level and not for the Economic Committee and that, as the responsible European and Foreign Ministers, he is also responsible for implementing clear rules in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Very briefly on the main crises that the OSCE is dealing with, especially those in Ukraine and Turkey. We have debated the situation in Ukraine so often – sometimes it's better, sometimes it's worse again. I am still convinced that peace-making, neutral initiatives can in fact be set in order to ensure stability and security in Ukraine. I still believe that in the triangle of Russia, the European Union and Ukraine, we can actually negotiate well. But there it is staggering and stocking, and I consider it to be politically adamant, since it is not possible to get into the corridors. The OSCE, in this respect also thanks to Christine Muttonen, is so committed, but it still needs this connection between all the OSCE countries, which also say: We want to finally settle this conflict and finally let it rest so that people on the ground can live a peaceful life. The same applies, of course, to Turkey. The central internal policy issues, you all know this and you get it with the waves of arrest, especially what journalists and journalists are getting, simply mean the end of a democratic system, and you go even more towards autocratic system. And when critical minds are locked up, not only journalists and journalists, but also judges, teachers and teachers, parts of civil society, Turkey has a problem anyway, but also the European Union, as it really needs to act. We must finally talk about it again and also think about whether the money spent on approaching Turkey to the European Union should not only be controlled, but also finally frozen once, since these IPA funds seem to no longer benefit civil society, but only the state system. These are all challenges that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs simply has to address. Unfortunately, I hear far too little about it, except sometimes a populist cry, but that's too little. In fact, there is a need for in-depth initiatives for peace, not just in the OSCE area, but worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11390	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11476	Mr. Dr. Cap is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11497	I can at least join the Foreign Minister, who expressed his concern about some of the statements made by the new President of the United States. I demonstrated with one of his predecessors, Othmar Karas, once at a great peace demonstration as chairman of the socialist youth against this nuclear insanity. There were 70,000 participants at the time, and it was about all nuclear weapons being dismantled. I thought that was a way in the right direction and that it would really be that way, and suddenly I hear other sounds again. We need more nuclear weapons, says the new President of the USA. He confused this with a poker party. That's not a poker game, it's a coolest question of overkill, of an extermination that can affect the entire planet. I am equally of the opinion that Europe must now act with reason, with strength – and in this sense I also believe that Austria can be a reform engine – and react with a certain degree of agreement. What I can't begin with is the question of a European army. Who's supposed to pay for this? – The French once wanted to have the command of NATO’s Mediterranean fleet, and the Americans said: Great! Could you have, but you have to build it yourself, pay for it yourself, and then you can command it yourself! - That's fantastic. And nuclear weapons are not supposed to have a European army at all, because if you have these nuclear weapons, we have nuclear missiles at the Czech border, in Hungary and everywhere. On the other hand, I wonder: To whom should all of this actually be addressed? Do you want to reactivate this cold war story? – That would be crazy because we are actually in the middle of it, and that would really affect the Austrian population. Then we don't need to discuss any more: Nuclear power plants: yes or no?, because that is the far greater danger in this context. That is why, I believe, it is happening when we say in this context that it is a question of ensuring the limits that everything is really robust, but we also have to think about how to handle the causes of mass migration, also towards Europe. Now, when I hear again that millions are threatened by hunger in Somalia and many African countries, it is clear to me that one of the reasons is droughts, poverty, wars, climate change, but Donald Trump's answer is, among other things: We need to increase the arms budget by 10 percent! This is a huge amount of arms in the United States. That is why I can only say: You get scared when you look at what is happening right now, and I think Austria can make a contribution as a neutral country and perhaps even as one who is trying to make real contributions to conferences, platforms and disarmament. We have also talked about the development of the European Union itself. Mr Minister, you say that free movement of persons in the EU should not lead to “the choice of the best social system” and so on. I am also of your opinion, but the background to the migrations is, among other things, the huge wealth gap, the pay gap, the social gap, the investments made differently. We were in the Hungarian Parliament, and there we were told: We train doctors, we train technicians, engineers, everything that then says thank you and go to the industrial zones in Europe, earn their money there, and we in Hungary have nothing of it! This is a wrong situation, and this is the background that then leads to the discussion that then one says: Hurra, now I'm in Austria, I get a job, I'm asked anyway, and I really like the social system! – One has to think about economic policy, and it would be one of the great dreams of the European Union if we had nothing to do with it. This is, I think, also an aspect, and if you look at it in Austria, you can see that the share of foreigners is half of the EU's citizens, that the unemployment rate is half the EU's citizens. In any case, this is an important point; if it is resolved and if it goes in the right direction, it also creates more confidence in the European Union which we now need, because I am not required by the USA, as we have to live in Europe, and by the current President, I am not going to prescribe it at all. We have there, I believe, to act self-confidently, and what we have fought, our level of life, our standards, that is our European element! He doesn't need to explain that to us, and his environment, which is burning around again and again, isn't at all. By the way, I sometimes have the impression that Trump says what he wants to do, does his vice-president what he wants, and the Congress decides what he wants. That is a source of confidence, I can only say, for a country that claims leadership and wants to make it clear to us that what it proposes is ultimately the yellow of the political egg. On the point of whether to make a direct election, Minister: If you say that the President of the Commission would have more strength then you would have to consider this carefully, of course, then I wonder if you want him to call you and buy you something. But I can't imagine that. There you should, I think, develop a little thoughtful thinking about whether you want it in this form as well. They say, whenever an EU law comes, two must be repealed, but then, before the law comes, we must regularly discuss which two are repealed – that never comes, this law! I do not experience this day if you pursue such a system. I'm also a little critical about these points, but I know you're not one that stands alone, there are others who think about it, but, honestly, there are: Which direction is that supposed to go? – I would like to make a very critical comment on whether this is really reasonable and has to be in this form. But I almost have to defend you against the “Kronen Zeitung” now, because it says it is pious wishes that you express here, but they are not realistic. Fromm is okay, but then she also says populist – I wouldn't even say that. We should discuss this, and we should be critical, and from me we are proposing things that are not equally feasible. The wage protection clause is correct, but it may not be equally feasible because it requires other Member States of the European Union. I think that we should act together, but we should do so a little bit from the point of view: strong Europe – yes, but with strong national states that can really make a contribution, and I think we can all sign this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11539	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11560	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to start with the discussion on child support, which is being sent abroad – the subject has been discussed before. Lord Federal Minister, it's a step in the right direction you're taking. Let us remember that a few years ago, Turkish guest workers here in Austria reported half the village as children; there was an official who had been bribed, and then they collected for everyone. There is a lot of fraud in this area, and we also need to consider: Why was child support introduced at the time, and what was it for? – The purpose was to strengthen the families here in Austria so that children can be afforded again so that the purchasing power is strengthened here in Austria, because this money goes into the economy and a part comes back over taxes. That makes sense, and if I send the money abroad, it's lost forever. We have to consider whether this child allowance is not only paid domestically, namely for children who live and live here in Austria. In my opinion, that would be the right step. Perhaps you think about it, Minister, that would be the first point. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another point I would like to address – it has already been raised in the previous debate – is asylum. This concerns both the Foreign Ministers and the Ministers of the Interior and some others, and, of course, the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Kurz has always said – we have often discussed this in committee and here in plenary – that: We must make Austria unattractive for asylum seekers and economic migrants! – How do we make it unattractive? – You have remained guilty to us for the answer. Maybe I hear her today. I'd be interested in what you're planning on this. I now give you an example of how to make it unattractive, but that is, of course, linked to problems and measures for the Austrian population as well; otherwise that is not the case. There are a lot of these asylum seekers or economic migrants from countries that do not have the standard as Austria, not at all in the social field, from countries which have been back in their development for many years. For example, there is no toilet, so there is no water cloister, but there is some hole in the ground, and that is the toilet there, or there is a stream where the need for food is performed. The people there have no flowing water, of course no cloating, nothing at all, and now these people come to us, to a top social state. If I want to make this state unattractive now, I have to go back to our system and the standard we have in Austria, to the standard in the Middle Ages or in the 17. ==References== But then there would be no more social benefits, and of course the Austrian population would also be affected. Now I would be interested in how you intend to make this country unattractive, because it is clear to migrate into this social system, which is of course very attractive to these people. Denen is promised everything below, you know these reports by German media, in Austria you rarely see anything like this on TV: If the so-called asylum seekers or refugees are asked why they came here, they show quite disappointed, beat up their hands over their heads and say: They promised us a house when we came here, a car, 5 000 € and much more! These promises are used by the tractors very consciously to lure people away from there to sell their goods and property in their homelands and go to the West. They're doing a killer's coal – and we're watching with our eyes open. And that, Minister, is the wrong way. They always point out that we have closed the Balkan route! - It's not close, you know it yourself! Hundreds of people continue to come to us every day. It's not these masses anymore, 15,000 a day, as we've had it, but it's still enough. Of course, this is a step in the right direction, but the route is not dense, otherwise we would not have had almost 37,000 immigrants in Austria last year again. They have to come from somewhere, at least they don't come by plane. And we already have the next problem: The German intelligence service has said clearly – a few days ago it was in the media – that more than 20 million people from Africa are now on their way to Europe. They come up on the route to Italy. I was also in Italy, I heard a little bit about myself and I talked there with police officers, with authorities at the Brenner, on the Austrian side with police officers and authorities, with businessmen, with all kinds of people. I was told that Italy is taking up these refugees in the Mediterranean, mostly at the North African border. Then they are taken to Italy, to the mainland – and then sent on to Central Europe. This is the problem, Mr Minister, and you are called upon to put pressure on Italy to ensure that this country fulfils its obligation, namely to protect the EU's external border, and does so as we imagine it to be. Then it also works with the open borders. Mr Hübner has already mentioned it correctly: Open borders only work if I can secure them. And if we want open borders in Europe, we must also do something about it, Mr Minister, and you are responsible for that. Always to say: We have to do something, but it is not for this and that reason!, that is not what the people expect from a minister, but it is expected that you, Mr Minister, represent their interests, the interests of the Austrian taxpayer accordingly and that solutions are found and implemented. In the last session, I think it was, I suggested in the presence of the Minister of the Interior that the mobile data of those people who throw away their passports should be read out to see where they have been calling so that we can know where they are coming from and then reset them again. Germany has already received this benevolently, and I hope that this will happen in Austria. But if you continue to sleep like this, then nothing happens and then it goes on all the time – and the Austrian population is abandoned. And that's not what I expect from a government, Minister. I still have so much stuff that I could talk for half an hour now, but I can tell you that once in a four-eye conversation. I believe that the Austrian taxpayer and the Austrian taxpayer expect this government to act now and that these problems we have been talking about here for years. You know my proposal to Wartcamps in North Africa. This is – Mr Franz has already indicated – a proposal that has been here in Parliament for over a year and that would be a solution to this problem, because if these people knew that they cannot stay in Europe if they get here illegally, do not come to us with good will, and are really being taken out of the country again, then these refugee flows would be reduced, quite massively, and then one would have taken a huge step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11642	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11666	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! I would like to take the European political report on the occasion of saying a few fundamental things about the federal government's European policy. This European policy, if it can still be described in this way, is currently under the title ‘Austria first’. We hear from Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that he wants to introduce an employment bonus. This should only apply to nationals, but not to EU citizens. I also think that this is a bit cynical and problematic if one is to talk about Germany because of the motorway toll there, but does the same thing with us: an employment bonus for domestics, but not for EU citizens. That seems to be the way to go about the motto: Austrian money for Austrian citizens! [[Abg. Honey: Wow, that's very bad!]] That seems plausible at the first moment, but the question is: Who deserves the Austrian tax money? And that's where I tell you: EU citizens who live in Austria also deserve to live and work and pay taxes here. And then we should also ask ourselves: Where will this Austrian tax money be earned? – Obviously not only in Austria. It is mainly earned by exports. [[Abg. Hübner: The question is: Who represents the interests of Austrian taxpayers in Parliament? That's the question!]] Austria lives to a large extent of its exports. Three-quarters of our exports go to the European internal market. There our money will be earned, there our Austrian tax money will also be earned. This is based on the success of our businesses, on which our jobs are based, and this success and these jobs are largely based on European fundamental freedoms. [[Abg. Pretty: Yes, of course!]] But unfortunately, foreign ministers have also expressed themselves in this direction in a similar way in recent times. They want to limit family allowances for EU citizens whose children live in other EU countries. Now, let me put aside the fact that economists predict that the savings effects will not be the way you want us to believe. What is important to me, however, and what I think is very central to the debate, is the political signal that you are sending out here, Mr Foreign Minister, when you speak of EU citizens as foreigners when you speak of EU citizens and their children as a burdening migration. [[Abg. Honey: Wow! That's a joke!]] [[Abg. That's where the right to hate has to be renewed immediately! Incredible!]] If you lead this debate with these words, then the Europe without borders will end, then the freedoms we have worked out and fought in Europe in many years and decades, then the freedoms in Europe, where we work, live, study, start businesses, are over. These are nationalistic and protectionist tones, as we know them from FPÖ, which is their positioning, their business model – but now also that of ÖVP and SPÖ. But it wasn't always like that! We should remember why Austria is in the European Union at all, who politically led us to the European Union in the 1990s. This was done under the leadership of the then SPÖ Federal Chancellor Vranckky, who was under the leadership of the then ÖVP Foreign Minister Mock, and who deserved to thank and acknowledge that they had done so. But today there is nothing left of this European commitment by ÖVP and SPÖ. That's why you're supposed to be told: The European project, the project of the European Union, is still the most successful project for peace, freedom and prosperity, despite all the difficulties that have arisen in the past, which will and will continue to exist in the future. That is why I would like to appeal to you, to the Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP, to the majority groups here in the house: Admit yourself to this common Europe! Take a change of direction! Stop with these nationalistic and protectionist tones! We NEOS are in any case in favour of this common Europe, and we will not get rid of it, whether in the face of the wind of the back or in the face of a violent wind. We continue our commitment and will continue to fight for this future project, for and for this joint project Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11755	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11777	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hable, this was a classic example of the previously mentioned refusal of reality. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] The refugee and migration crisis, which is addressed in the foreign policy report, is indeed one of the most burning problems of our time, and the refugee movement caused by war and terror is already threatening to shake our continent into its foundations. While the report proposes a comprehensive approach to security, humanitarian support for refugees on the ground and increased protection of the EU's external borders, we all know that it is unfortunately not as it stands in the report – and this, although the establishment of on-the-spot care facilities would be all more humane and cost-effective than the unfunctioning integration of millions of asylum seekers on the European mainland. Instead, the EU is operating aid for towing by allowing all those who are saved from drowning in the Mediterranean not only medical assistance and care, which is, of course, an absolute course, but also immediately to obtain asylum on the European mainland. However, the reception capacity has long been exceeded, the situation on the labour market, as we have discussed today, is dramatic, the displacement competition is enormous, crime is increasing, and it is bubbling in society. We all know that, and eyes that are slumbering still go into the disaster. Minister, the Balkan route is essentially blocked. With the help of the tractors, who as part of the asylum industry deserve millions of times of suffering, the refugees now take the route across the Mediterranean. As we have heard today, there are already six million young, vital men who have nothing to lose on the North African coast waiting for their crossing into the supposed paradise Europe. I know that you, Mr Federal Minister, have been making a new tone since the very latest, a very tough external tone. You are working here with headlines supported by us, but there is still a bunch of non-realists in your group and your coalition partner who are still talking about a welcome culture of old. Now, Mr Minister, there is no need to be any more fear of how this was the case some time ago, immediately put in this strange corner of the xenophobic enemy. will be when you address the truth. At the latest with the Brexit decision in the UK and the election of a new President in America, these people were pulled away from the ground under their feet. The Keepet-de-Dieb strategy, with which the opponents of unrestricted immigration are diffused as spiritual arsonists and populists, has since become empty. People are satisfied with the policy of violence and demand a turning point, as we Liberals have already called for it in 1993 in the framework of the FPÖ popular desire “Austria first” at a time when the current asylum crisis has still been referred to the field of utopia. That is now 25 years ago, but it shows that we have remained true to our principles since then. I would like to believe that you too, Mr Minister, remain faithful to your hard line that you are proposing to drive, but, with your confidence, you are still young, and I can still remember very well what statements you have made in this area in the last one, two years. I do not want to show you here now, and I do not want to go far enough, but I would like to say so much that you, too, – and I am glad about that – have come to realize that Islam is not part of Austria and that the Austrians are not more intelligent than the new immigrants. “By their deeds you should recognize them!” – We let ourselves, as I said, be positively surprised. Finally, something else: You will hear of worrying events in your ministry, Mr Minister, and I would like to address this again in a very specific way. They rightly condemn the influence of Turkish intelligence here in Austria on Turkish double-citizens, Turkish citizens, perhaps even on Austrians with Turkish roots. That's what we all do here. As a result, it seems all the more strange to me, because here we are increasing the evidence that, obviously – and I already believe that this is systematically happening – Austrian officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are systematically saying that Austrian opposition politicians abroad are not saying that they are trying to find out what is happening to those politicians who are democratically elected to the Republic of Austria, who, according to best knowledge and conscience, fulfil their task for Austria. Mr Minister, I say it again with all clarity and I also let it be used with it – I have promised confidentiality and will not mention any individual cases here; there is not only one individual case, there are several such cases from our point of view –: It cannot be systematically tried to find out with whom Austrian opposition politicians meet abroad, with which of their counterparts, what is being discussed there and what the other plans of those are. That is the strictest rejection, Minister. I would like to ask you here with all the urgency to stop this dispassion, and if that is not the case, we will be able to defend ourselves with all the parliamentary means available to us as opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11838	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11859	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The foreign and European policy report clearly shows the diverse challenges for Austrian foreign policy, some of which have already been addressed to a rather limited extent by the previous speakers. I would like to take out some of the things that are more important to us. The Austrian commitment to the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 is very important, but it is very important for those concerned. For the audiences Spectator to illustrate: This resolution was unanimously adopted by the UN Security Council in 2000 and aims to strengthen the protection of women in crisis, conflict and post-conflict situations and, on the other hand, to strengthen the involvement of women in peace work and in the various structures in this area. We were one of the first countries to adopt this issue. We adopted a National Action Plan in 2007, which was updated in 2010. Since then, the various ministries involved in the implementation of this NAP have also put in place a wide range of measures, as the seventh implementation report shows very clearly. For example, the five ministries involved and the ADA – all under the leadership and coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – have made strong efforts to appoint women both for international peace operations and for leadership positions in international organisations and for election observations in third countries. For example, GREVIO and Rosa Logar have received an Austrian vice-president. Of the voters in third countries, 36 percent are women, while it should be noted that the proportion of women among the voters proposed by Austria was more than 42 percent higher than after the European Union's election. The fact that gender issues and international women have to be part of training is quite clear to the ministries involved – for example, in the foreign office, the part of the basic training programme for the higher and also for the elevated foreign service is mandatory. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also point to a high level of commitment in international and supranational organisations in relation to resolution 1325. So with Dr. Lilian Hofmeister since 1. January 2015 a judge nominated by Austria at CEDAW. In the context of the work of UN Women, Austria has also made a strong contribution to the implementation of Resolution 1325 and has also been committed to a stronger criminal prosecution of the perpetrators of sexual violence against women in armed conflicts. In addition, a wide range of activities are also set up by the Austrian representation network in this direction. I would particularly like to mention the former Foreign Minister and Ambassador Ursula Plassnik, who initiated and conducted numerous events on women's topics worldwide. Much remains to be done in terms of the creation of security for women in armed conflicts, and great efforts are needed to achieve further improvements in this area – therefore, thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other ministries involved, together with the request to continue on this important issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11908	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11929	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, who watch us at the gallery and in front of the screens at home! [[The speaker placed on the speaker’s desk a panel entitled “Freedom for All Detained Journalists in Turkey”, “#FreeDeniz”, “#FreeTurnalists”.]] Let us imagine an active foreign and peace policy that is not only interested in the fourth year of a bloody war, for example in Syria, if there are thousands of people, displaced, refugees, on their way to the European Union! Let us imagine an active peace policy that says: Those who talk about flee must not be silent about arms production, even here in Europe, and about arms trafficking! Let us imagine an active foreign policy that, with a neighbor, a neighbouring country that is still EU candidate, such as Turkey, does not complete a dirty EU refugee deal, so that tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people displaced and refugees are held there more or less, or thus remain the borders of Turkey, so that no displaced and refugees can come to us in Europe! This active foreign policy would be a sustainable foreign policy. Such an active foreign policy would be an active peace policy. This would be a policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which is not only a problem for the consequences of war conflicts, but also a problem for the people who then flee from exorcism, but it would be a sustainable foreign policy that tries to start much earlier, which does not simply say: Oh, let's close the borders so that the displaced can't come to us here! This would be an external policy which would also have a fairer commercial policy in mind. This would be an foreign policy that asks why people are taken from why people leave their homes: because they no longer have the basis of existence there. For example, in Senegal, where in 2014 the EU, of our European Union, of which we are an eight and twenty-eightths, bought up fishing rights off the Senegalese coast, which, with a blow of hundreds of thousands of fishermen in Senegal, has become unemployed, their work and livelihoods are lost. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Now I would like to ask you: Imagine being born in Senegal by chance! Imagine being a fisherman or a fisherman in Senegal! – I don’t think we can all do anything for where we were born, into which families we were born and with which citizenship we were equipped. These are pure coincidences. And now I would like to ask you: If you were a fisherman in Senegal who got rid of the livelihood with a blow, would you look at how your children starved, or would you get on the road and try to build a new life base for your children somewhere, under any circumstances,? – I think the answer is relatively clear. No matter whether we have children or not, we can't all imagine that we'd stay out of business. That is why we also need an active and sustainable foreign and peace policy. We need an active and democratic neighbourhood policy. In Turkey more than 150 journalists are currently in prison because they have reported, because the reports they have written, sent, produced, did not fit the rulers, the government, the President Erdoğan. The latest example is Deniz Yücel, double-citizen, both German and Turkish citizens, who after 13 days were arrested in police custody for an indefinite period of time and for an unlimited period of time. Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing the Gretchen question: How do we deal with democracy and human rights – not only in Austria, but also in Turkey? And our federal government and all the governments of the EU countries are ahead of the decision. They will either opt for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression or for the dirty EU-Turkey refugee deal so that no refugees can reach the EU. [[Abg. Deimek: Erdoğan in Austria is good and Erdoğan in Turkey is evil?]] We have the choice. I am absolutely in favour of speaking out as citizens of the European Union for Human Rights, the rule of law, freedom of expression and the release of journalists in Turkey. In this sense: Freedom for Deniz Yücel, freedom for all imprisoned journalists in Turkey! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e11987	Ladies and gentlemen, did you not want to put forward a motion for a resolution? - Okay. [[Abg. Korun: (on the way to their seat)]] Thank you. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12024	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! The foreign and European policy report, which we are discussing here today, once again provides a compact and good overview of the external and European political events. The report also describes Austria's claim to become more involved in pan-European security policy, particularly as a traditional mediator and as a promoter of dialogue, as a supporter of a strategic security dialogue on conventional arms control and as a pioneer for multilateral nuclear disarmament initiatives. Since January of this year, Austria has also held the OSCE Presidency and thus the opportunity to set important impulses in many of these areas. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is more important than ever, because many NATO countries, many NATO countries and also Russia are still moving towards a dangerous spiral of distrust, military deterrence and disarmament. Last autumn, as President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I was invited as a speaker to the NATO meeting in Istanbul. And with my calls for peace policy, for dialogue and for disarmament, I was rather alone there. The theme, which all employed the most, was the financing of the military upgrade in the NATO camp. But nuclear disarmament is also a delicate issue; it has also been mentioned by Mr Cap. In recent months, the two Presidents Trump and Putin have declared that they want to be uplifting. And President Trump underlined this in December by saying that it is necessary until the world comes to reason on nuclear weapons. – Ladies and gentlemen, in my ears this sounds more like a threat. In March of this year, negotiations are under way in the UN for a ban on nuclear weapons. 113 States have agreed to these negotiations initiated by Austria. So that would be a good way to show reason. At a time when the ideas of national egoisms, military disarmament and nuclear deterrence are again being seriously debated, it is important that we make more and more clear our commitment to the alternatives – for a strong international law, for dialogue, for security through peaceful cooperation – not only to the Federal Government and the Foreign Minister, but also to the fact that we, the parliamentarians, are committed to Parliament's external political commitment, whether through foreign policy applications, through our contacts with embassies, to the parliaments, to the representatives of other countries and through our commitment to international parliamentary organizations and networks. Through parliamentary diplomacy, we can ensure broad contacts between countries and have confidence-building effects, which usually takes place with much caution and even without media – only then can we really act in a confidence-building way. We can or should and should maintain existing partnerships, and we must also enter into and strengthen new cooperations. We can work for our values and ideas, advertise for them, and try to convince others. This Parliament can and should therefore make an important contribution to peace and security. We should also become active as regards the worrying increase in attacks on medical institutions and humanitarian organisations in conflict regions. On this subject I would therefore like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Muttonen, Mr Lopatka, Mr Pfurtscheller, Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. According to the president of doctors without borders, the non-compliance with medical impartiality is becoming a new anti- international standard in warfare. In 2015 alone, 106 air and artillery attacks were documented on 75 hospitals that led doctors without borders. The WHO, i.e. the World Health Organization, reports on nearly 600 reported attacks in 2014 and 2015, and also the International Red Cross documents 2,400 attacks in the years 2012 to 2014. The Members who have been signed therefore call for the highest priority in this resolution for the safety of medical institutions and humanitarian organisations. That is why we ask you, Mr Foreign Minister, to work at European and international level and also as President-in-Office of the OSCE to improve the protection of local and international helpers. In this sense, I would like to ask you to support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12094	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Muttonen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12188	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12210	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has a central area in the foreign policy report, and you too, Federal Minister, have spoken in recent days about the reform of the Union. I think it is urgent that this reform of the European Union be started in the coming year, because the institutions of the Union have completely failed throughout their whole range. It can't be like the cloud-cuckoo house that the colleagues from NEOS present to us here. Mr Strolz, the President of the Commission is already further in the assessment of the real situation than the honourable Members. Colleagues from the NEOS. It already recognises that the European Union, if there are no changes, is on the abyss. You're not ready yet, but you'll have to learn that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the Union also includes the development of an effective common foreign and security policy approach. The European Union lacks that. The European Union is obliged to secure the external border. This task has been put faithfully by the Member States in the hands of the institutions of the European Union, and this faithful commitment has not been fulfilled. That is why we have increased here in the common foreign and security policy and called for consistent security measures. Mr Cap has already suggested: The new administration in the United States may be a blessing for Europe. After all, we do not know in which direction NATO will develop: Either it will break by breaking down the transatlantic partner, or it will become an instrument of aggressive US foreign policy. We don't know. But perhaps this conflict and this crisis can help the European countries to grow up at last and to think about their own foreign policy and an equidistance between the US and Russia is the right line for Europe instead of being unilaterally tied to the USA. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We have experienced this painfully in the case of sanctions against Russia, which still harm us economically today. Federal Minister! I would like to encourage you to work in these areas in the Council. You have already shown character in the Council on the resolution on Turkey. As a liberal, I would like to encourage you to show even more character, including in terms of building a new security and defence policy. We already have the structures for this within the framework of the so-called Battle Groups, only this was not used with lazy excuses. We already have the opportunity to use military forces in the European sense, according to the European Council's decision. It wasn't done. We therefore also have the demand that armed forces at European level can, of course, be mobilised. However, this European army cannot be a European professional army under the centralist command of a centralist EU, but must be borne by the will of the Member States. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the contribution of Austrian soldiers must always be decided here in Vienna, which is a matter of course. Decisions concerning defensive measures – with regard to the security of the European Union, with regard to the safeguarding of the external border, with regard to ensuring that we are not still threatened by illegal mass immigration, but also by terrorism – are, of course, also to be supported by our side, by the liberals. However, in order to be able to provide this support to the EU, we need a reasonable European policy, and there is a lack of it. I believe, with regard to your proposals, Mr Minister, that it is not so much a question of the Union's identity as it is a question of practical policy. If the European institutions are able to pursue a practical policy carried out by the people of Europe, such decisions will also be possible with regard to safeguarding the external border. But that doesn't happen. This is the problem of the European Union, and we have to contribute to the dramatic change in the Union and above all to the Union's most important tasks, and above all to safeguarding the external border. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Europe, ladies and gentlemen – and we all have to be clear about this – does not become a fortress, then it will become a ruin. We shouldn't let that happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12291	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12312	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Today, the FPÖ is very concerned about NEOS. I think that's kind of touching. However: The premise that we do not want to accept reality here is simply not true. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Karlsböck, Mr Hübner, Mr Bösch, for us NEOS is quite clear that the European Union cannot stand up in its current writing, but of course it must develop, which is completely beyond dispute for us. In the same way, it is out of dispute for us that we will live and want to live in Europe tomorrow. This is the place where we are at home: Europe, Austria, Vorarlberg, Dalaas, Wald, Unterwald, Obere Gasse. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We manage to have multiple identities, and Europe is a very central identity of us. That's where the difference begins: Realistic, near-to-life proposals come from us again and again. She and the European and Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz – he unfortunately did not take it up – heard it from NEOS: For months now, we have been saying 30 000 men and women at the external border. Of course, we want to be registered at the external border, who comes, who goes, and without exception. I want to have the fingerprint because everyone has only one pointing finger on the right hand, and that's why it's supposed to be registered so that we don't have as miserable conditions as nine identities for people we capture in some contexts in the future. We can solve this very easily, we can solve it tomorrow. I do not know why the Conservatives and the Social Democrats do not solve this at European level. We have made other proposals: Residency duty for people who have come as protection seekers and receive a positive residence permit. We want residence in Austria and at European level, because we do not want uncontrolled immigration. – These are proposals we make. Sebastian Kurz can pick them up today and implement them tomorrow with his colleagues. What is the problem now? – The FPÖ and increasingly also the ÖVP and SPÖ, the former European parties. We have the problem that they are obviously infected with the Le Pen and Trump virus at a progressive pace, and this leads their actions. Neonationalist populism of FPÖ, the brand AfD, neonationalist populism is what makes SPÖ and ÖVP increasingly. I think it's basic. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! Spirit drivers!]] [[Abg. Deimek: What do you suggest?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I would like our Minister for Europe to say that on the occasion of the discussions that are taking place, yes, there are light and shadows and we have problems, but we have also gained 68 000 jobs through the European internal market, dear Austrians alike. [[Abg. Deimek: This is the worst racism of white, European men!]] We have gained 53 000 jobs only in the first ten years following the enlargement of the EU to include Austria. – That means: For jobs, Europe is immensely important! [[Abg. Deimek: What about solidarity with Asia? What about solidarity with Africa? ...It's a scandal! That's crazy! You're proposing something like that! European racism!]] What about Sebastian Kurz? What about Mr Stöger? - There's nothing coming. Mr Stäger says that we now have to take a rigid course – so in the transferred sense – because we have to close it, otherwise the right will be on the move. That can't be serious your policy, Sebastian Kurz, as a representative of the Erasmus generation! [[Abg. Deimek: This is a scandal that he says!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I hope that many are still going out – apprentices, students, students – and Europe, but then we can't build borders, then we can't take part in shooting off, then we have to cultivate one another. And that's what I'm missing: cultivating together! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Deimek: The new European racism is what you are doing!]] [[Abg. New builder: Erasmus!]] They cultivate the opposite of each other in Europe, in the big and in the small, also as a government. They should prepare themselves, Sebastian Kurz, also Mr. Kern, for the EU Presidency of Austria. What are you doing? – Two more separate working groups and work processes. Everyone moves in one's own direction, each one fires only his party-tactically important topics. [[Abg. New builders: They just say who chooses us, and they represent them!]] [[Abg. Deimek: You're just Europeans!]] They confuse European policy with party tactics, and this is wrong, of course, Europe cannot move forward. Europe and the European idea of unification are currently being strangled by national policy logic. [[Abg. Deimek: European racism!]] 28 countries make domestic elections – tactical, small and small – so of course, Europe will not be able to maintain prosperity, peace, the quality of life, so we cultivate a different vision. We have the vision that the people one day will do what they have been doing for 2 500 years when the barrel overflows: They're calling the Republic. The day will come. It will not be 28 states, but the day will come, I will have the same passport as people from Istria, possibly from southern Bohemia and possibly from Alsace, and that is good. There is no need for everyone to participate in this further step of agreement. We are going to move Europe forward in a further step, some of which will come later, but visions are needed for that. [[Abg. Neubauer: You will soon do nothing more!]] [[Abg. Beautiful:... in your fictitious parallel world!]] Sebastian Kurz, I would like that for one who still has 60 years of life expectancy, that would be something for the next generation, and not neonationalist populism. The FPÖ can do it well, no one else needs it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12566	The next item is the speech by Mr Mölzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12590	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Strolz, we are not dealing with NEOS because we are concerned about you, but because you seem to have taken over, at least to the outside, the role of those who are completely without If and But a European central state. [[Abg. Aslan: What are they doing?]] They operate – I almost have to say – demagogic black and white painting, which is precisely the cause of these problems that we have in Europe; in reality these are not some supposedly evil populists and the like, but the system is wrong, the whole basic idea in this form, with this centralism is wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... what are democratic rules for?]] Of course, we liberals are committed to a European agreement, to European values, only believe me – these are exactly the wrong symbolisms – we do not need a common passport, for example, to join with Istrians, but we need policies for our peoples, for our diversity in Europe, then we will have a good future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I give you a right, Mr Strolz: The party tactic, which operates ÖVP and SPÖ, is unreasonable and not in order. It's one – and unfortunately you already have to acknowledge – it's just a sand-in-the-eye scatter. Unfortunately, this does not matter when it comes to solving the real problems, these are just words and not actions. That is what I am going to come to the very subject on which I would like to speak briefly today: We have heard several times today that Mr. Kurz, or the Federal Government as a whole, if you want to, are something like a billboard, which actually turns out to be a force for implementation. [[Abg. Wheelers: In your eyes!]] - Yeah, well, you have to say that quite clearly. Much is said, much good is spoken – on issues of immigration policy and on the same footing – as we have noted many times today. However, I come to an issue where one cannot even talk about the announcer, let alone of the implementation emperor, which is the question of the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia: My dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that in 2012 and in 2014, we have decided here in the House unanimously that the Federal Government is being invited to work in bilateral talks with Slovenia for the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia and to focus on it. This has been decided twice, just in the last legislative period and also in this once again. We have discussed this in the last Committee on Foreign Affairs, because it seems that we are not really going on. So the question is what has happened since then. We do not know that so well; on the one hand, because the Foreign Minister has not only been silent on demand in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. If you look at the external and European reports of recent years, you can see that there is always only the same sentence inside – I quote: “The recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia remains an important concern for Austria, which is regularly addressed in bilateral contacts.” In 2014 stood inside: “The official recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia remains an important concern for Austria and is regularly addressed in bilateral contacts.” – I now spare you the quotations of 2013, 2012 and 2011; it is always the same sentence where you cannot really read out what is happening. Let us ask ourselves what really happened, Minister: Don't you want to tell us exactly what's going on? We have prepared a request again, you can do this and tell us exactly, or perhaps today if you speak to us here. Does nothing actually pass? Then I have to ask myself what you think of the National Council's resolutions. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work for recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia with requests, requests and the like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We all know that in Austria we are exemplary for the autochthonic minorities – on the one hand, the Slovenians in Carinthia or also the Burgenlandcroats and so on – that we are really doing everything we can to ensure that they are well and that we maintain their cultural identity. I do not think it is too much to demand and we do not have a little pressure on the Republic of Slovenia to commit ourselves to doing so. So, Minister, I would ask you to be active in this, to give us answers to the question of what has happened over the past five years. I would also ask that the 2016 foreign policy report should perhaps not re-enter the same sentence with ‘control+C’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12671	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12692	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Strolz, you've been Dr. med today. by putting under any virus infection towards populism both the ÖVP and other parties, and then putting yourself into an incredible populism and saying, Foreign Minister Kurz does not do anything. [[Abg. Stroll: I didn't say he didn't do anything!]] This is populism par excellence, your rhetorical exaggerations and populist rides speak for themselves, and the action does contradict your accusations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Yes!]] Sebastian has made short- European policy on the issue of dealing with the refugee and migration crisis, has demonstrated how it can be done in cooperation with the Member States. [[Abg. Rädler: He is blind, Lord Strolz!]] Therefore, the statements made by my previous speaker, which are only announced here and not done, are not acceptable either. [[Abg. New builder: Nothing happens to the Slovenians!]] The report we are discussing today – the 2015 foreign and European report – certainly describes a year of the huge challenge, because nobody or least in Europe expected such a refugee and migration crisis. At the beginning, many in Europe have still meant that this is all feasible. More than 600 000 people have gone through Austria alone, and this has led to huge uncertainty in Austria and in other countries. Sebastian Kurz, who said already in 2015, that Europe must be operational, that one must, for example, fight against causes in Syria, in Libya, that people, refugees on the ground, must be helped to protect the EU's external borders and ultimately close the Western Balkans route. So it was that way, and the result of this great effort, including with the countries on the Western Balkans, was a closure of the Balkan route with the result that in these months only a fraction of the refugee people come to Austria and to the countries all around. This is a concrete policy that provides results, European results that are good for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this was already a prelude to the current OSCE Presidency in 2015, because it has already been tried to improve the situation on the Western Balkans in cooperation with the OSCE member countries. It has created security and stability, and it supports the current efforts. Austria has a long tradition and a foreign policy focus, particularly to cooperate with these countries, to cooperate with the Western Balkans: firstly, to strengthen relations and, secondly, to support them in their approach to the European Union. Croatia is already a member, Serbia is on its way there, Montenegro and other countries are getting a perspective, and this is important – just like Sebastian's trip Short to Macedonia and Serbia to support those who have a key role in the migration issue in the Balkans and are in any case in an economically difficult situation. That is why it is correct and important. In this sense, I also find the cultural activities of the Foreign Office important. Heuer, 2017, is the cultural year “Austria - Croatia”, last year it was “Austria - Bosnia and Herzegovina”. At this level too, newly organized by Sebastian Kurz, cultural exchange takes place. After all, 500 000 people with roots at the Western Balkans live in Austria, are integrated and are an important part of our society. This helps, and this supports policy, so it is so important that OSCE activities take place in Ukraine, also in cooperation with the United Nations, as happened last in New York with the new UN Secretary General. Finally, on the activities of the further development of the European Union: Of course, the EIA is a party that acknowledges the European Union. As 60 years of Roman treaties are celebrated in a few days, the time is right to develop the European Union. It is necessary to ask how the EU external border is properly protected. This has never been answered and needs to be developed laboriously now. Or: If many countries simply do not stick to what has been done under asylum contracts – Dublin cases and so on – then we need to discuss this seriously. I see this positively, however, because Sebastian Kurz's ideas of shaping Europe are proactive and pro-European. I believe that Austria as a bridge builder and state, which also communicates between conflict parties, can do very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12797	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e12818	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the 2015 foreign and European policy report on the agenda, and when we look back on 2015, we note that it was a year that has shaped us to this day, which has caused and changed a lot. Normally, in the debate on such reports, which are often discussed only years later, we are only talking about news, but not at all about the past year. In this case, it is something different: Although the year 2015 was relatively long, there were still a lot of things that still concern us, which has influenced us and which has also changed the European Union to this day. Looking back on 2015, it was an intense year for us in the ministry, in the positive and the negative: an intensive year in the positive, for example, because we managed to bring the nuclear negotiations with Iran to Austria, and an intense year in the negative, because in 2015 the refugee crisis broke out and the resurgence of refugees to Central Europe was started. I can only say at this point that I have an understanding for all those who believed at that time, you do something good with the next wave of the refugees. At the time, I have been warned of this from the outset, and I have been massively criticized for it when I said that the resurgence of refugees will not improve the situation, that tractors will not withdraw the business base and that death in the Mediterranean will not end, but, quite the contrary, will only make things worse and lead to a massive overload in Central Europe. [[Abg. New builder: We know that!]] I am glad that it succeeded to stop the further swing along the Balkan route. Of course, all colleagues from the FPÖ, who have said that there are still people coming through this route, are right. It is still necessary to fight tugs there, but please admit that it makes a big difference whether 100 people a day are trying to pass the police authorities, or whether 15 000 are still being won by state and European organizations per day. I'm glad we succeeded in ending this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that in 2015, we had the opportunity to look back on 20 years of Austria in the European Union. I say we could not only look back, but we in the ministry also celebrated it. I personally celebrated 20 years of Austria in the European Union, because we in Austria have benefited massively from this step to join. It was the right decision, that was the case back then, that was in 2015, and that is true today. It is precisely because we have benefited that it is also our duty to bring us in and develop the European Union. I believe that we must all not be satisfied with the status quo, because there are massive tensions within the European Union, even as a result of the refugee crisis. With Great Britain, a large country, one of the largest economies in the European Union, is leaving Europe or the European Union, and there are also shortcomings that urgently need to be stopped. Those who are a pro-European are not satisfied with the status quo and celebrate it, but are committed to making Europe better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, it is crucial that we meet our responsibilities and use the Austrian Presidency to ensure that the Austrian Presidency does not only leave what is going to happen anyway, namely the end of the Brexit negotiations, so that the British can leave what I deeply regret. We should also provide impetus for positive development in the European Union. I would like to rely on the principle of subsidiarity, because I believe that all those who say we need more Europe are just as wrong as those who say we need less Europe. It's about the area in which we need something. We need more focus in the European Union, we need a focus on the major issues where common rules are needed, and at the same time we need a European Union that is declining, national states and also regions to give more room for decision in areas where regional and national decisions can be better taken. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one in the European Union is right to understand if we do not manage to protect our external borders, but at the same time have the need to provide for food cards as far as the allergens are concerned. This does not mean that this scheme is bad, but the question is whether such a thing should be regulated at European level. [[Abg. Kogler: That's even that...!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: For the..., the How can you question!]] All those who believe that this is a mistake only from Brussels or from the European institutions are massively wrong, because the reason for a greater bureaucracy, the reason for the high regulatory density we have, is often not in Brussels, but the reason are national politicians who immediately raise everything they consider right for their own country to the European level to regulate it for the whole of Europe, and they are national politicians who, if they do not find a solution themselves, immediately call for the European solution, without first trying to do so themselves. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who decides? That's the Council, these are the ministers! No transparency about our politicians in Europe! Why don't you take a stand for it?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You also belong to that!]] I therefore very much hope that your support, ladies and gentlemen, will strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in Europe. I believe it is an important foundation for a Europe of the future, for a stronger, better and more efficient Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a few words about what you, Mr Matthias Strolz, have mentioned, but others have also discussed the subject of payment of family aid abroad or also concerning border protection and border controls – it has been said earlier that walls are to be built and fences are to be built; even Alois Mock has been strengthened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] I mean, if we are serious about this European Union and if we want it to continue to exist, we have the responsibility to counter it in the event of misdevelopments. I believe that freedom of establishment is a good thing, and I think it is crucial that we have the opportunity to work in other European countries, but if freedom of establishment is interpreted in such a way that one cannot only work elsewhere, but that one has the full right to social benefits, even if one has perhaps only worked there for one day, then this will not result in freedom of establishment being maintained, but, quite the contrary, it will lead to the fact that freedom of establishment will be called into question shortly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we pay hundreds of millions of euros of family support abroad, while ensuring that there is a massive distortion, because the payments from Austria are simply much higher than the cost of living there, making it even more attractive for someone from Romania or Hungary to get on the road to work in Austria – because if he has two children there, the average income in his country is transferred to that country – then this does not mean that the European Union is getting stronger and that fundamental freedoms are preserved, but quite the contrary: [[Abg. Schwentner: Take a look at this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] [[Abg. Rädler: Mr Korun, if you would not be disturbed!]] It will lead to decisions such as thevotum, and it will result in more and more segregation and nationalism. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, then they have to pay less!]] That is why I invite everyone not to act here with populist measures or with national measures that are taken as nationalist, but I invite everyone to look at each other in the event of misdevelopments: Is that really true, what's happening? [[Abg. Schwentner: The wrong developments happen...!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But you must present this in Europe!]] Is it really necessary to transfer hundreds of millions of euros to family aid abroad, even if payments there do not correspond to the amount in Austria, but if the payments there are an average income? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is crucial that we counter these misdevelopments. A final point is still important to me – perhaps I can get rid of it without being permanently interrupted – to the borders and to Alois Mock: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of Abg. Kogler) Social Romance!]] [[Abg. Kogler: (in the direction of Abg. Bad guy!]] If border controls are again taking place in the middle of Europe today, for example between Germany and Austria or between Austria and our other neighbouring countries, we should ask ourselves why these border controls exist. Are politicians like me responsible for this, who have warned before the next weekend in 2015, or are these border controls perhaps the result of the wrong refugee policy and all those who then joined the Westbahnhof and elsewhere full of euphoria for the unlimited reception in Central Europe? [[Call:Yes]] [[Abg. Korun: Weapons trading!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The fact that we have border controls in the middle of Europe today is the result of a false refugee policy, and those who are misguided at the time should be aware of what they have done. [[Calls for Greens]] I will do everything, and I will continue to work to ensure that we have a Europe without internal borders in the future – and this will only work if we properly protect our external borders. [[Abg. Korun: Weapons trading!]] [[Abg. Korun: Let's talk about arms trafficking!]] That's right Matthias Strolz, but I'm even going one step further: It's not just about controlling who comes in and who doesn't come in – or who comes in and who goes out, you said – but it's also about deciding whether anyone can get in there at all, and there, if he's made an illegal way to Europe, to stop, care for and reset. [[Abg. Korun: Refugee Convention!]] [[Abg. Korun: Read the Geneva Refugee Convention!]] If we do not, there will be no Schengen area in the future, and I would feel that this is a massively negative one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another last point – on the question of how the European Union is dealing with our own rules: I am a defender of the fact that we need a Europe with fewer rules, but the rules that exist must be respected. And with it again to the refugee policy: At that time, when the resurgence to Central Europe was perfected – and there are many here in this Parliament who celebrated it at the time – it was a break in European law, and there were politicians who were massively criticized for addressing it at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] [[Abg. Steinhauser:... Interior Minister? ÖVP Minister of the Interior!]] I would have liked to see it, if we were to ignore European law and not to be agreed together, at least a session to discuss it. [[Abg. Korun:... Family aid!]] [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of Abg. Korun) Korun! - Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.]] I would have liked from all those who are now shouting out loud on family aid and other issues that they would have done so at the time and perhaps at that time also asked the question: Is it really right to break European law without discussing it only once in Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13266	I call Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13288	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your statement – what you have finally said – because what you have shown is a problem for the population and a problem for our domestic economy. I thank you for these remarks, that was very correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign and European Policy Report 2015: The fact that Austria is faced and faced with a new challenge by the current refugee and migration movements is also reflected in the foreign and European policy reports. I listened to the Foreign Minister earlier when he quoted the German Chancellor who said: “We can do this!” – I say: We can't do this in this form, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, because it can't go on that way and the time of swinging must be over! However, the massive impact and impact of the domestic population must be borne: The uncontrolled move from all the countries brought Austria to the brink of loadability, which is out of question, and that is so. About 90 000 asylum seekers and asylum seekers in 2015, which is the second highest reception rate. The uncontrolled move-in must be firmly rejected, both for Austria and for the EU. The borders – and we have just heard from the Foreign Minister – are, of course, guaranteed, especially the EU's external borders. I do not know, Mr President, it was Mr Strolz or anyone else, at least someone said that to secure the borders would be like to lock the country. – This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, but one controls who goes into our country and who goes out of our country. I think this is an important approach. The 20th anniversary of Austria's accession to the EU is an occasion for this report to continue to support the unbroken importance of membership in the EU – only what has become of this EU, many people in our country no longer understand. Moreover, as this report points out, Mr Minister, as I must underline your statements, the following is: Austria as a place of dialogue, for example in the nuclear negotiations with Iran in Vienna, Austria as a bridge builder and as a venue for delicate international negotiations. These are positive approaches in this report, and I thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13342	Mrs Mag. Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13363	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Bundesminister Kurz referred to the legal conformity: It is also always legal when it comes to human rights and compliance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees. – That is also mentioned here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been particularly concerned today about the topic of the women's tolerance of this report, not only – but also – because we unfortunately had to remember the death, the death of Sabine Oberhauser, and Sabine Oberhauser was a very committed, passionate women's politician, who was about creating more justice in our world. Equal opportunities policy and the question of justice were major concerns for them in their political career. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I asked myself the question: How does it look like in the office? How are the women represented? – It is there that in the higher foreign service, for example, for the diplomats, the proportion of women is 35.6 percent, in the elevated foreign service, for example consular matters, the proportion of women is 42.6 percent, and in the secretarial service is 62.8 percent. If it were the opposite that there were 62.8 percent diplomats, I would be more pleased, Minister. However, I do not want to mention that the 35.6 percent share is already a performance – I also mentioned it in the Committee. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of course, I am concerned about European policy, the European policy of the larger Europe, and I would like to mention here a report prepared by the Italian and current chairman of the Equality Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Elena Centemero Council of Europe. This concerns, for example, the number of women in Europe in the legal representation bodies. – Unfortunately, women in the various parliaments are represented by no more than 20 percent on average. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, conservative politician Centemero has come to the conclusion, however more and more women's speakers here in Parliament – although not unisono but yet – have come to the conclusion that more women are to be represented in the parliaments. What are the possibilities? With regard to the question of legal quoting, whether it be by sanctions, whether it be through incentive systems, as Mrs Schittenhelm also said, we should all be right, in the final effect only more women will have to sit here in Parliament. In this sense, we should and must continue to work. Mr Lopatka looks very interested and very hard into the files when it comes to this survey which is to take place now. I hope that the issue of voting rights will not be passed by women, but will be negotiated with women, and that in the final effect, what your colleague Schittenhelm said in various interviews, we will have 50 percent women here in the next Parliament. That would be a big, big, big concern – and obviously not just me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let me make one more request at the end of my contribution to the debate, namely the motion for a resolution by my colleagues. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mag. [[Abg. Lopatka: Well, it's okay!]] Alev Korun, Dr. Matthias Strolz and Ing. Robert Lugar. This concerns the human rights situation in Turkey, which has always been the subject of the Council of Europe, and we have discussed it a lot. I hope that Turkey will not re-establish or execute the death penalty. This request addresses the human rights situation in particular with regard to journalists – and that the question of freedom of the media is a very central issue, which, I think, is aware of all of us here. The application is as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13439	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13512	Mr Steinbichler has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13534	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Agenda item 1, the 2015 foreign and European policy report, has already been discussed in detail. I now want to come to item 2 on the agenda, on the request of Mr Windbüchler, on preventing the financing of violent conflicts in the procurement of raw materials. Mr. Kurz spoke of false refugee policy earlier, and I think that part of this mis-evaluation of refugee policy is because it is simply not precisely defined whether it is war refugees, as is discussed in general, because it is always referred to as war refugees, although it is known that 80 percent of these are climate and economic refugees. [[Call:That's what climate protection is all about.]] I think that we can only make European policy – including national policy – if we succeed in requiring those groups which are the main beneficiaries of these raw material gains, these land destructions, to take over costs so that they take over the costs, both in terms of damage and, of course, in respect of their tax obligations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I think (a panel with a bar chart that headlined “The Top 10 Importers of Palm Oil Worldwide (in million). “Wearing on the speaker’s desk”, these statistics say everything. If Europe is the second largest palm oil importer in the world, then we know that we are chief causers and co-polluters of great human suffering on the spot and of these refugee flows. Kurt Langbein has dealt with this in his Dokus “Land Robbery” and now “Die Fett-Falle – Leben ohne Palmöl”. Over 200 million refugees are on their way, including more and more Africans. I was really disappointed by the media coverage of UNESCO. It is said to help, 1.4 million children in Africa are threatened with hunger! – We are, however, the contaminants. [[Inverting the panel with the bar chart, making the photo of an undernourished child visible]] That is not to be surpassed by falsehood! We must be aware for a long time of the consequences of our actions and actions on the ground for the regional civilian population. We not only take home to them, we take them – and this confirms the 2015 Group Report – through this centralization in industrial food production also every chance of survival there. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] I think it is right that these people then make their way as refugees and, of course, try to reach this Europe. When you know that palm oil is even traded with quality seals, you know that 90 percent – 90 percent! – illegal redundancies are in play – right, Mr Pirklhuber! – and if you know that German banks also invest and the main investor is the British HSBC with 16.5 billion – with 16.5 billion US dollars! – then we know what sizes we are discussing here, then we know, Minister, that we have to do here. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... European banks!]] In this context, I am particularly thinking of the Paris climate agreement, which, although again speaking of fuels and coal taxation, has not, in the end, taken this essential issue into account. For example, food production affects consumers across Europe and the world, and we feed them with this toxic glycosate, which we sometimes discuss surfacely here. By means of agricultural production we feed this directly to people. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of Federal Minister Kurz weinend) He prefers to play on the smartphone! He prefers to play on the smartphone instead of listening!]] [[Federal Minister Kurz: I can do both!]] - He listens. People eat this glycosate directly with the healthy vegetable oil. That's irresponsible! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for action here! And you can't look at these pictures often enough, even if they're so terrible. [[pointing to the photo at the speaker's desk]] I'm just concerned that this is being negated. I am affected when I read in the media of the famous Haze, which is born in the redundancies, at which thousands of hectares are rowed. I have now again spoken to a Witness who was over 25 years old and has organized Safaris. He said that it is not possible to imagine what environmental crimes are happening, that in this detonation not only the valuable oxygen is burned, but also valuable soil, but also, in the case of such detonations, up to 100,000 dead are to be lamented on site! We are not talking about 100,000 animals being killed here. And that is why there is a need for action! I think it is important here. This is a theme that affects everyone. Mr Minister, I think it would be a huge chance if Austria took the lead here, also in terms of food sovereignty, which is already at risk in Europe. It is heard that in northern Germany the largest agricultural farms are also in bankruptcy. We should play a pioneering role in food sovereignty in order to position and score Europe-wide. We do not have to invent new taxes, as has happened recently, in recent years, but we have to tax. France already has its palm oil tax. I think it is essential to start in Austria too, and this insanity to stop this disgruntling with palm fat, palm oil and coconut fat. That is why Mr Steinbichler's motion for a resolution: Palm oil and palm fat tax also to protect domestic food production, domestic agriculture, but especially in terms of health for consumers. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13650	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13807	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13831	Mr President. Minister! High house! The foreign policy report impressively shows the measures taken by Austria in a world that presents many new challenges. I would particularly like to stress the following: Austria as a bridge builder, its role in securing peace and its concern for greater security. I support Sebastian Kurz's commitment, especially to the Western Balkans, because we have a close political, economic and cultural relationship with these countries. It is about bringing these states into Europe and forming a stability belt. Austria supports the civil population, but also the rule of law, in the context of development cooperation. I myself have seen in Albania two years ago how a reform of the judicial system is being promoted in cooperation with Austria, because legal certainty is the basis for peace and also against corruption. Also within the framework of the OSCE Presidency, Austria, through Sebastian Kurz, focuses on the creation of peace, on radicalisations and also on more understanding for each other – this is also the task of politics to promote dialogues. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the beginning of the Lent. I believe that at this time we should also be aware of what we have, in which country we live and in what prosperity we live, and also remember that we can share it. State commitment is one thing, and Austria is doing a lot: We will double the budget for development cooperation, the funds for the disaster fund have already been quadrupled. The other is private commitment, and that is just as important. I would like to thank all the NGOs for their many initiatives, and I would really like to call on them to take their own back in the fasting season and also to give up the savings for charitable purposes, because every ten seconds a child dies of hunger, and this can be avoided. This should no longer be a reality within the framework of the SDGs. These are also efforts in the sense of human dignity, as it must also be enshrined in the Austrian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13874	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13895	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated guests on the gallery and in front of the televisions! The human rights organisation Amnesty International has found that the current Syrian regime had between 5,000 and 13,000 prisoners killed in the framework of mass injunctions. People were hanged from 2011 to 2015 in the infamous military prison of Saidnaya near Damascus without a judicial procedure, as stated in an Amnesty report. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would then like to stress a very important point: Mr. Federal Minister, you have said that 2015 was an important year for us as a country, as a population. – Yes, for several reasons I agree. Unfortunately, what you never say about it is that in 2015 we had with Johanna Mikl-Leiter an ÖVP-innenminister, who has been in office for four years and who in these four years, both by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and by human rights organisations, has always been confounded, please do something and prepare capacities, because a greater flight movement is in sight. I do not want to mention why this major movement of escape was in sight: The World Food Programme, that is, the United Nations World Food Programme, had to cut the costs, it no longer had the funds to feed the tens of thousands of refugees who had been accommodated in mass camps in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Egypt and other neighbouring countries of Syria. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] Both the World Food Programme, i.e. the World Food Programme of the United Nations, and Austrian human rights organisations, have for many years pointed out to Ms. Mikl- Leitner that a great movement of escape is also expected towards Europe. So if the competent Minister of the Interior, who is in office for four years, does nothing – in 2015 the great wave of escape also begins to Europe – and says: We are overrun, and we can't! then that's no sustainable governance. This too must be said: Yes, unfortunately, in 2015, we experienced a rather inadequate Minister of the Interior and a non-executive government, so that it was not possible for those people who came to the Austrian border to be properly registered, registered and provided jointly by the EU. – In this sense: Let's not forget the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e13978	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14063	Mr Christ. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14084	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Of course, the foreign policy report also includes the issue of South Tyrol, and I would like to highlight a few points because it is important to me and because it is also important for the South Tyroleans. For example, it is very interesting and probably far too little known that there are so many positive and enjoyable cooperations – in the field of the economy it is even more known, but in the field of culture, schools, vocational schools and also the agricultural and forestry schools such as in Sankt Florian, in my home country Upper Austria, less – which work best. There are also over 40 exercise companies in South Tyrol who work very, very well with their Austrian partners as an exercise company and exchange themselves perfectly. It is also gratifying that over 3,000 young people from South Tyrol have learned to visit and appreciate our federal capital in the context of the action “Europe’s Youth Learns to Know Vienna”. There are, of course, many political issues that we are discussing, for example, in the South Tyrol Subcommittee. One of the last hot topics was the constitutional reform of last November, which created a great discussion across all levels of population, through all the media, by all parties in South Tyrol – I would have said soon: a crack – and caused great fears. We then – I think it was the initiative of Mr Neubauer, who was then taken up by the chairman of the committee – invited the Senators Zeller and Peterlini from the SVP and even the two did not agree on a common line. We have been able to watch live how emotionally this issue is being discussed, obviously an important issue. The outcome of the referendum is known, the effects for Italy are also known, and the dreaded deterioration for South Tyrol are therefore provisionally out of the table. We'd just say, Good is ‘go, nothing is’ g’shehn. Who knows how long!Unknown term type: "%s".? After the referendum, a South Tyrol politician said: In Italy once again chaos, the advantage is, we are used to it. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many topics that link Austria and South Tyrol, employ and need joint deliberations. As before, we will continue to seek and maintain active dialogue and close cooperation at all levels in the sense of our defence function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14130	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14151	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! An active foreign policy is important for Austria, not only for image reasons but not only for tradition. Active foreign policy can be bridge builders in other countries: Other countries are of great economic importance to us, the Austrian industry alone is heavily export-dependent. Austria is a tourist country, even there is a view that foreign policy can be an important bridge builder. Of course, Russia is a subject in the 2015 Federal Government's foreign and European policy report. Russia is an important issue for us, because Russia is also a partner. In 2014, sanctions were imposed by the European Union, which I see critically, and in 2015 these sanctions became effective. An investigation of the WIFO has shown that it is about an export volume of € 550 million, which Austria has fallen by de facto by these sanctions. However, it is also about 7 000 jobs in Austria – a pity for these 7 000 jobs. The question now is: Do what? – Of course, this requires the foreign policy of Austria. I appreciate the Austrian Foreign Minister's positions in this regard positively; the efforts and bridge-building functions in the European Union are effective, so that the sanctions can be phased out. I also appreciate that, as the report says, it is better to get away from the penalties, to come to an encouraging system to reward progress in the Minsk process. The economic war is damaging Europe and is damaging Austria in particular, i.e. realistic positions. But the former Austrian President, who has been very committed to dialogue with Russia, as well as our Federal Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs, has already had realistic positions, and this is very positive. Russia is also an important partner internationally. I believe that Russia can contribute to peace in Syria. We now have a request from colleague Alev Korun on the subject of “Stop mass in Syrian prisons”. I would like to comment on this: I am also in favour of the 2017 Amnesty International Report on Syria, which is a very balanced report, and I would say that balance is needed in our foreign policy towards the Middle East and Syria. I stress that torture and executions are, of course, clearly rejected by the SPÖ, but an incredible brutality and violence is widespread, and the fearsome and infamous Islamic state is also brutally using violence to an extraordinary extent. In his report, Amnesty International refers to mass injunctions, attacks involving mass deaths; incredible enslavement, not to speak of violence against women at all. We are very ready to speak here, but the SPÖ will not agree to this motion for a resolution. My proposal is that we should establish common positions in the next Foreign Policy Committee, in which, as a whole, we take a negative position on the use of force in this war and civil war and reject it. In this sense: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14205	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur and the rapporteur do not wish to conclude. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-334 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, on: Fundamental rights of women and girls in the poorest countries are threatened – support for the She Decides initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Lopatka, Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, Mr President, on a worrying increase in attacks on medical institutions and humanitarian organizations in conflict regions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 190.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Mag. Korun, Dr. Strolz, Ing. Lugar, colleagues on the release of journalists in Turkey. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 191.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Korun, ladies and gentlemen: Stop mass injunctions in Syrian prisons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1482 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in 1934/A(E). We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Palm oil and palm fat tax'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:02:33]] 3rd. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1367, e.g._Other Organiser Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part (1480b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14343	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Van Minzig. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14370	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. For ten years there has been a joint declaration between the European Union and New Zealand on relations and cooperation. The negotiations on this Agreement were then opened in 2012, since January of this year this so-called PARC is provisionally applicable. The aim of this agreement is to strengthen economic relations on the one hand, but also to strengthen political dialogue on the other. The agreement can be divided into three categories: cooperation on foreign policy and security issues, including the fight against terrorism, but also the fight against weapons of mass destruction; sectoral cooperation relates to research and development, education and culture, as well as to areas such as organised crime and cybercrime; cooperation in the economic field is aimed at facilitating trade and investment flows and at agricultural, health police and plant protection issues. From an economic point of view, New Zealand with 4.6 million inhabitants is a manageable and small market, both for Europe and Austria. However, our exports have increased significantly as a result of the good economic situation in New Zealand. Currently we export goods of 120 million € and import around 47 million € per year, which means a positive trade balance for Austria. Since Partnership Agreements are a good basis for Free Trade Agreements, I am also confident that the negotiations on which the two Contracting Parties have already agreed in October 2015 are now under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14403	Mrs Mag. Grossmann's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14425	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The EU's previous cooperation with New Zealand will be put on a new legal basis and will also be stepped up. The basis to date was simply a joint declaration, and now a formal partnership agreement is to regulate relations in the areas of policy, security, trade and investment more binding and structured. Issues for which reliable cooperation partners are needed are enough when it comes to the peaceful political solution of international conflicts. There are some who have It is important to resolve the conflict of Syria, the situation in Ukraine, the crisis spots in Africa and all over the world. These are big challenges. Knowing that one has a reliable partner in the Pacific, who also upholds human rights and international law, is of course of great value. In this respect, it is also very positive that cooperation with New Zealand is strengthened. From an economic point of view, Austria is an export country, New Zealand is, of course, also, an important market for sales, as Mrck has already explained. We export a lot of plants, machines and vehicles and we also import 46 million € per year, and that will certainly not only be Kiwis, which also thrives better and better with us. From an economic point of view, this is an important and desirable agreement. One thing I would like to stress at this point in times of revitalizing nationalism, protectionism and the tendency to self-insulation: It must be stressed how important international cooperation is, economic and political, as the basis for a successful economic development, but above all as a basis for peaceful living together in our world. And we only have this one world, and we all have it in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14467	Mr Karlsböck spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14488	Mr President. Minister! High house! As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is, of course, my heart to tackle the political and economic challenges on all five continents as far as possible. Here too, we are called on Austrians to perform our bridge builder function and middle role. I particularly welcome the partnership agreement between the European Union and New Zealand – that is why I am speaking today – as the chairman of the bilateral parliamentary group in Austria – South and South-East Asia, Australia and Oceania. Although New Zealand is on the opposite side of our globe, it is very close to us culturally. Thus the state is still a parliamentary monarchy with Queen Elisabeth II. as the head of state, which does not mean that we can reduce New Zealand to a former British colony, which is shaped by a debate on a new flag, as important as the identity of the country. It is an important, western and culturally advanced country with a gross domestic product of approximately 180 billion New Zealand dollars annually. The deepening of political, economic and cultural relations can therefore only be in the mutual interest of Europe and New Zealand. We liberals therefore support the creation of a new climate and better conditions for strengthening trade and investment flows, as set out in the Guidelines on the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and New Zealand. It is important that Europe and New Zealand have agreed above all on political cooperation in foreign and security matters of common interest. Economic cooperation, such as the removal of technical barriers to trade, as well as sectoral cooperation in the fields of research, education, migration and combating terrorism, should also be supported from a free perspective. I found a nice saying that characterises New Zealand in a sense. It's like: The New Zealands are afraid of two things: first of all, because New Zealand falls off the world map at some point, but they are even more afraid that no one will notice it. This agreement will prevent the EU from doing so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14534	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14555	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! New Zealand is not only rich in treasures, agricultural and cultural treasures, it is primarily rich in a culture that we can either get to know ourselves or know only by listening, namely the culture of the Maori. This has just been completely forgotten by my colleague, namely that what we can learn from New Zealand and New Zealand policy is that minority rights and self-determination can be incorporated into a democratic system and that works wonderfully. Partnership agreements are by their very nature nothing bad, especially when they are concluded at an eye. Nevertheless, one thing remains to be said on this point, as well as on all other partnership agreements: The focus is extremely focused on combating migration and immigration. We have this not only with New Zealand, but also with all the other partnership agreements. We have to consider what that means, on the one hand, economic relations will be strengthened, but then, if anything does not work, the return agreements should somehow work. If foreign policy only has this focus, we all have a big problem with each other, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Since 2014, New Zealand – and from this we can actually learn something from it – has installed climate change as an asylum ground and a legal basis. That is to say, all the effects of climate change, whether it be the rise in sea level, whether it be drought, whether it be floods, whether these climate disasters we feel every day are reasons why New Zealand grants a right to stay. When we conclude partnership agreements, I think we should look at the opposite – also from Austria – exactly what we can learn from it and what we can actually learn from countries like New Zealand. Climate change is to be prevented, for that there is the global climate agreement, but it also requires clear action. As long as these measures do not actually take place, there will be climate refugees, and we must not leave these climate refugees out. That's why we also need to learn from New Zealand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14588	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14610	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today: The previous agreement and cooperation between the EU and New Zealand have worked very well and have also strengthened both partners. In the present part of the debate, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy The EU's relations with New Zealand in the fields of policy, social, security, trade and investment are further strengthened. New Zealand is an important partner in the Pacific region for the European Union. Together with Australia, this country is also an important driver for the development of the South Pacific region. For New Zealand, the European Union is an important trading partner and a foreign investor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Especially for the small island states in the Pacific, a rapid transition to sustainable energy forms – my previous speaker has already mentioned it – is of central importance for her independent supply. Many of these countries are heavily affected by climate change and an increase in sea level. For them, a rapid and worldwide departure from fossil energy sources is more than a question of will, it is a question of survival. For example, they decided to obtain 100 percent of their energy from renewable sources in the coming years, leading globally in sustainable energy supply. For Austria, this development is very interesting because we can offer extensive technology and know-how. In 2015, Austria exported goods worth € 114 million to New Zealand, especially in the areas of machinery and equipment and vehicles. The majority of agricultural products are imported, worth around € 47 million. Trade relations are also the reason why the European Union wants to open negotiations for a free trade agreement with New Zealand this year. It remains to be demanded that the European Commission draw lessons from the mess of the last major free trade negotiations and that those products that we ourselves produce should not be imported from New Zealand. We call for a prudent trade policy. Let us also think of ways of transport in the EU's trade policy. This not only helps New Zealand in this case, but is also an important point in the context of CO2 emissions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14652	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1367 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:16:47]] 4. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1458, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part (1481, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14698	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14728	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators here and in front of the screens! Perhaps a very brief word about the importance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its employees all over the world, our ambassadors: They are all of great importance, including for the Austrian economy. Austria is an export nation, so it is also important that we conclude trade agreements. Trade not only has a corresponding meaning for the economy, but trade can also be a doorstep for the exchange between different nations. Ladies and gentlemen! We have an agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. I may present it in a short time: This extensive treaty is linked to the accession of Kazakhstan to the WTO, i.e. to the World Trade Organisation, and is intended to create, above all, a better framework for the further development of trade and investment relations. In detail, this is about an improved regulatory environment in the areas of trade, establishment and legal certainty of companies, land resources, energy, public procurement and intellectual property. The agreement also provides for an intensification of political dialogue and foreign and security cooperation, while stressing the aspects of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as sustainable development. It was signed at the end of 2015 and has already been ratified by some EU Member States, the Republic of Kazakhstan has already ratified it in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again: Trade agreements are important, and we should look at these agreements as sober as possible. Even if it could be “fearable” states such as Canada, under quotation marks, we should look at what is important to us as an economic and export nation. That is why I call on you to deal with this agreement, which will eventually be discussed here again, as objectively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14765	Mrs Mag. Muttons. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14786	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! Kazakhstan has developed into a responsible and constructive partner in Central Asia, the OSCE and at the international level in recent years. Kazakhstan also shares our interest in a cooperative security policy and is committed to peace and stability. For example, in 2014, the country has already been very committed to a crisis mediation in Ukraine, it has mediated between Turkey and Russia and has recently been a place for the Syria talks. Especially in nuclear disarmament, Kazakhstan and Austria have been close partners for years when it comes to launching international initiatives. A closer partnership is therefore positive for both sides – this has also yesterday, during the 25th anniversary of the ceremony, emphasis was placed on diplomatic relations between Austria and Kazakhstan. A closer partnership is also important for the EU, as Astana can act as an important bridge builder between Moscow on the one hand and Beijing on the other. In view of the further development of democracy, the rule of law and good governance, the Partnership Agreement is also to be welcomed. When visiting the OSCE, I always felt that there was an honest interest in the Kazakhs to move forward and to resolve existing shortcomings. This has also been confirmed by the Kazakh Members who were here in Vienna last week at the winter meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. At any rate, comprehensive constitutional reforms are planned to strengthen Parliament and restrict the power of the President. In view of President Nazareth's eventually foreseeable withdrawal, it is also important that the democratic institutions are strong enough to secure peace and stability. In view of the economic part of the agreement, it should also be noted that Kazakhstan is not only interesting because of the raw materials. A key economic factor lies in renewable energy. In this area, there will certainly be new cooperation opportunities for Austrian companies. This will certainly be possible at this year's Expo in Astana, in which Austria also participates. The agreement therefore makes sense for Austria, the EU and Kazakhstan, and we should agree to this agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14835	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14856	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Trade does not always automatically create peace, but I am convinced that peace through partnership agreements can be very existent. My previous speaker from the ÖVP stressed in particular: If we are trading, then somehow the whole region is stabilised!, but that's not how it is, it's a too simple bill, it needs much more. Such cooperation agreements can actually work only if they are broader and if the political dialogue actually takes place. From my point of view, this Partnership Agreement is in itself an opportunity to open up Kazakhstan, but also an opportunity to actually support the democratic forces on the ground, and therefore it is also positive. Nevertheless, it must be said that Astana was the place of preparations for further peace negotiations for Syria and it has already worked a bit as if Belarus itself were moving out of the situation and Kazakhstan is now, as it were, also a place of negotiations for Syria. I believe that it is all the more important – if it is – that Europe actually strengthens political dialogue with Kazakhstan, in order to make peace even further in the region, but also beyond, especially in the direction of Syria. That means: Yes, to the Partnership Agreement, but look at what political dialogue is and see exactly what it actually looks like with the peace dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14895	Mr Heinzl came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14917	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is rightly famous for its good foreign-political relations, especially with Eastern Europe and with the successor states of the former Soviet Union. Historically, this is certainly due to our situation as a neutral state between the two blocks of the Cold War, but also through a clear foreign policy focus in recent years and decades. As we know, Kazakhstan after Russia is the largest country in the world that has emerged from the former Soviet Union. At the same time, the country is in a strategic, like me, important position between East and West. Close cooperation between Austria and the European Union on the one hand and Kazakhstan on the other is therefore clearly of mutual interest. Following the accession of Kazakhstan to the WTO, a comprehensive partnership agreement has now been drawn up between the EU and Kazakhstan. This partnership agreement, which must be confirmed by the Austrian Parliament, that is, by us, creates numerous and economically best conditions. The aim is to further develop trade and investment relations. In particular, the Partnership Agreement brings better rules for trade, business establishment and, in general, what I consider particularly important, greater legal certainty. In view of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, and also of the already important land resources of Kazakhstan, for example oil, it is very much to be welcomed that there will be more legal certainty. The same applies, of course, to energy and public procurement and intellectual property. There will also be an intensification of political dialogue and closer foreign and security cooperation. In both areas – as the President of the OSCE has already mentioned – there already exists a well-functioning cooperation with Kazakhstan under the OSCE. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of democracy, the rule of law and human rights should not be ignored either. Areas where Kazakhstan, in my view, can benefit greatly from intensive cooperation with Europe. Summary: An intensification of the partnership between Kazakhstan and Austria or the EU is in the mutual interest and Austria continues its important foreign policy tradition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e14960	Ladies and gentlemen! For those Members who follow the speaking times at Parliament.gv.at, I can tell you that the ED is not working at this time and that the speaking times are still being corrected. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1458 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:28:59]] 5. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Seventh Report of the Federal Minister for Families and Youth on the Situation of Youth in Austria (III-330 and III-330/1472, p.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15008	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15036	Mr President. Dear – yes, Mrs. Dr. Karmasin is not here! We are dealing with the youth report today. The basis of this report was a resolution of the 1988 National Council to be able to talk about this youth report in every legislative period. The current regulation, however, leads to the introduction of the Youth Report within a legislative period. Therefore, the problem is that it often expires for several years and that actual comparability in this case is difficult. The last report comes from June 2011, and now we have to discuss this report here. A further proposal for improvement would, of course, be that we strive for a shorter period of time, we say that every three years a report will be submitted in order to actually have comparabilitys. If we look at the interpretation of the term youth here – and we have discussed this in committee – we must say that it is already very different. We have different terms here: the legal definition for youth and also the socio-scientific interpretation of the term youth. Of course, this also differs very much, and therefore the actual comparability is a bit sloppy. I think one should strive to find out a uniform age definition. This is also a subject that the authors have addressed. They also said that a uniform system would have to be established here in order to carry out comparisons in order to be able to analyse precisely. [[Federal Minister Karmasin takes place at the government bank.]] - Greetings to God, Mrs. Minister! It is now difficult to compare, because I have a period between 14 and 28 years of age for the youth, then up to 30 years of age. The legal definition is between 14 and 30 years old, the target group is between 14 and 24 years old, and the social science definition is that this phase lasts from the first to the fourth decade of life. I have to say that this is already very far-reaching and yet a uniform regulation has to be made. Now I come to the content of this youth report, which shows a lot of alarming points. For example, we see that the risk of poverty and exclusion of young people in Austria is very high and about 1.6 million in 2014 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A quarter of the youth, the people of this age group, is at risk of poverty. These are 431,000 children and young people who are concerned, and they are absolutely 21.6 percent of the young people who are at risk. We have a comparison with 2013, at that time it was 20 percent – even very much – and in 2014 it increased to 21.6 percent. This is an alarming increase in the number of young people and children at risk of poverty. A particular problem in this context is the cost of living, which is constantly rising and where there is an urgent need for action. We already have a slight improvement in youth unemployment in Austria, but when we look at the EU average, we see that this one, as far as youth unemployment is concerned, is still bad, but much better than in Austria. This development is also due to the fact that, while we are constantly talking about having a training guarantee, until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, it is best that this training guarantee still does not say how the state of the actual training of young people is in order to be able to exist in working life and in the professional world. These are problems that need to be addressed. Another problem, of course, is the pressure that young people suffer more and more, which also partially robs them of power. We know from advice on wire, which we have provided to young people, that a lot of suicide is at risk and that cybermobbing is a major problem for young people. I think there is a need for action, it is a question of exploiting the possibilities of policy to give the young people more security and to strengthen them in order not to be muttered. We liberals therefore continue to demand that young people be reduced in advance. We have 16-year-olds who are allowed to vote, on the other hand, they are harbinged as if they were infants. That doesn't fit in. Here too, a proper regulation must be made. Debt policy must not go at the expense of our young people. We are constantly in debt, and the youth, our youth speakers and our children and grandchildren will have to do so. This must also be done effectively. We also need effective measures to reduce youth unemployment and to reduce it as far as possible, while saving young people not from youth unemployment by having a training guarantee, but by providing better knowledge. Rightful pay: There must be no more unpaid internships. A uniform law on the protection of young people at the federal level would also be needed. – Mrs Minister, with all these demands, I think you are already very covered. The following, of course, is a big concern to me: My colleague from the Mühl district, MP Hammer, is not in the hall right now, he has said that the ÖVP has always been for the family aid reduction according to the country of origin principle. I remember the committee in December when I tabled this request and, of course, the ÖVP voted in favour of a postponement, although it would have been possible to agree and say: It is not a question of putting it into practice on the spot, but of creating a basis for doing so. The Minister said at the time when I gave her a quote from the “Kurier”: You won't believe everything in the paper. – This is also very significant for how the ÖVP acts here and acts outside the media – if you can believe it – and what it is supposed to do there.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15115	I call Mr El Habbassi. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15136	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I start, on behalf of my colleague Georg Strasser, I would like to warmly welcome the group from the fifth year of Francisco Josephinum from Wieselburg. Dear Josephinen, dear Josephiner, welcome to Parliament! I'm glad you're here. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the youth report today, and I would like to start with three positive things in this context. First of all, I am grateful to have taken into account that, in drawing up this youth report, not only has it been taken into account when it comes to studies that are being carried out and that not only has very valuable data been collected, but above all a very important criterion that we constantly call for young speakers here in the House, namely that young people and their views have been included in the drawing up of the report and that these findings on the worlds of life and the realities of young people in Austria are now also reflected in this report. – Thank you very much to Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Julian Schmid.]] They are allowed to clap quietly because it concerns the interests of young people. I also think it is positive, I must say quite honestly that this report is not presented for the first time at the end of a legislative period, when everything has gone and then one has a look back, but that we get it during the legislative period, so that we now have almost two years to use this data as a basis for future policy. Why is that important? . We often have to fight that the issue of youth policy is seen as a protection of young people, in connection with certain provisions relating only to young people. But what is very strongly expressed in this report is – and I will address it more closely later – that the issue of youth policy is a whole, quite broad one and in many areas – whether this is housing policy, social policy, education policy. Even when it comes to pensions, when we look at demographic development, we will see how much it has to do with it. That means that the foundation stone we are now setting in youth policy is the basis for the results of our policy in the future. That is why I am glad that there is this report and that we are discussing it today. Now I would like to look at the details of the content. I felt it was very exciting that it was just beginning to explain how many young people between the ages of 10 and 29 there are in Austria at all. These are about two million young people who are represented in day-to-day politics, I say, by a few young speakers, because some older semesters are so forward-looking to involve young people. I thank all those who have already done so, and wishes to appeal to the other ministries and to the relevant speakers: It would be important and beautiful if it were standard for us to take into account the perspective of young people on all major political issues. I would like to thank Mrs Kitzmüller for speaking about this: The indebtedness that we repeatedly increase with some of our actions may not be a prelude to youth, but it will decisively influence the opportunities and opportunities of young people in the future. I have chosen two topics which seem to me to be very important, namely employment and education, and here is interesting: Although our youth unemployment of 10.6 percent is only half as high as the EU-28 section, there are still countries such as Germany, which have a much lower unemployment rate at 7.2 percent. I think it is important that we focus on this issue and are aware that we have a great task ahead of us. In addition, young people tend not only to enter working life, working life, but also to live much longer at home. I think this is due not least to the fact that it is hardly yet possible to afford an apartment; I do not want to speak of home and property now. That would be a big concern. Finally, as I see that my speaking time is already very short, I would like to make two very brief requests. The one is: In order for us to continue to have a good, qualitative basis for political decisions, it would be important that this very good report be prepared regularly and that these studies, which are quoted here, can also be found in the future reports, so that comparability is possible in time. The second request is that we keep in mind that youth policy is cross-cutting policy, that policy for young people is the policy for the future in this country. We must always keep this in mind when it comes to all the measures and decisions we take here in the house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15210	Mrs Gamon. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15231	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! This report, presented by the Ministry of Youth, makes one thesis that we may not need a youth ministry at all. The report is composed of three parts. On the one hand, we have part A, these are studies and statistics on the topic of young people in Austria, then we have part B, an analysis of the quality of life of young people, and we still have part C, the actual political part of this report, and that is the part in which the Austrian Youth Strategy is concerned, and on the basis of which the work of the Ministry of Youth could be evaluated. In my opinion, however, the Austrian Youth Strategy is not at all a service, but rather a further proof of the possible lack of the right of existence of the whole. Why? – A large part of the report is a list of projects which are not at all carried out by the Ministry of Youth, but by other ministries, by the BJV or by the Open Youth Work. This means that the Ministry of Youth has no or limited influence on these projects. The rest is a collection of content in which reference is made to the respective websites, in which relatively many big words are philosophized about abstract fields of action. In addition, this is reflected in the precisely defined objectives which are already found in the report and which are quite ambitious. Two of these I would like to take out now: In the field of education, the aim of the youth report is to: ‘The lowest rate in the EU in 2020’ on the topic of health: “Austria is among the three best countries in the EU with the health of young people”. That sounds wonderful, but you as a minister have absolutely no influence on both goals. The Ministry of Health, for which the Ministry of Education is responsible, is responsible for the topic of health. If these objectives were to be achieved, this would be great for the young people in Austria, but it would certainly not be your success, but that of other ministers. I assume, however, that there will be no consequences for the Ministry of Youth if these objectives are not achieved – probably not for the Minister of Health, most likely for no one. Even in the areas where you actually support projects, there is also a little failure to analyze the ministry. For example, they set out the strategic objective: “50 % of young people between the ages of 14 and 24 have participated in a participation project”. However, some paragraphs in the report say that: ‘In order to quantify this objective, it is necessary to define criteria which constitute a participation project in advance.’ That's where you're wondering: What has the Ministry done in the last three years, if it has not yet agreed on a definition of the concept of participation projects, in order to make this strategic objective, which has been established, measurable for the next report? [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] There are, however, also issues which concern young people in their everyday lives and which the Ministry of Youth could very well care about, or which the Ministry of Youth could deal with, which could have been included in such a report, such as sexuality. We are very rarely talking about this here in the House, but that is something that is always very busy with young people. Although we know that it is relatively bad in Austria for information and for access to contraception, this issue is not mentioned with a word in this report. There is also the issue of gender equality, which has already been discussed here today. Every time it comes to indebtedness, when it comes to the impact of laws on young people, the Ministry of Youth could speak to deal with it. An example would be that of the hundreds of pensioners who have been decided here not too long ago, who are actually a disaster for the young people in Austria. Moreover, the issue of gender equality is also not mentioned with a word in this report. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Another topic is the differences in child and youth assistance in Austria. I have asked for this, and by the way, there is the “standard” of today, 1. March 2017, on page 8 an article on it. This, in turn, is a problem of Austrian federalism. Children are often treated differently in other countries. ung, depending on the state in which they live. In my opinion, this is an intolerable consequence of Austrian federalism, and this too is an issue that you could address as a youth minister. That's something you can solve by making the whole thing federal. The Ministry of Youth is not a think tank, but should improve the situation of young people in Austria, and if it cannot and does not, we may not need it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15312	Mrs Lueger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15334	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The seventh report on the situation of young people in Austria is available, and in one I would like to say to Mr Kitzmüller: It is very difficult to compare this report with that of 2011, because this time the report is divided into three parts. I am convinced that the sections “Knowledge about young people in Austria”, “Better-Life Index Youth” and “Austrian Youth Strategy” should be essential points of youth policy. I would like to say that part A of the report is made up of figures, facts and data, all of which are made up of many other studies, which is a good basis from which to work away, so to speak. Part B shows that while the Better Life Index is being used to identify key areas of life for young people, this does not always cover young people. It was also in the Committee of Experts who spoke on the youth report, and one of the criticisms was that it would have been more necessary to consult quantitatively – and not subjective circumstances, which were often the result of the survey of young people. The selection of indicators for this survey was very, very general. It runs under the title Health, Leisure, Education, Social Relations and Security. Unfortunately, many of the young people's statements – I don't know how to define this – end up in a kind of lucky definition whether they feel happy with it or not. What I'm sorry about, too: It has been very, very many bourgeois households, and therefore the area of dealing with poverty is not entirely covered by me. The status quo is described in Part C. It is often pointed out that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter. Finally, youth policy should facilitate the transition to adult life. The report also states, however, that this transitional period or that this transition is taking place all the time later. The young people move out of their homes later and later, taking up a job, resulting in a lot of problems. But there is also positive in this report. When you read it, you're surprised at the variety of activities that are mentioned. Yes, it is true that this is not directly the activities of the Ministry of Youth, but they are mentioned in the report because youth policy is just a cross-cutting matter. Finally, there has also been an improvement in the standard of living, although I do not want to hide an addition: apart from the cost of living! There is an increase in educational activities and many other positive points. My fellow Members will still comment on the negative points. I am very glad that there is this youth report, and we will also take note of it. I hope that it will form a basis for further work on this and that the critical points expressed by experts will also be included in the new report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15389	Mrs Steger came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15410	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the seventh time since 1987, there has been the report on the situation of young people in Austria. This is an important report, not a question, but apart from the fact that the report naturally tries to present a lot more linguistically beautiful than it really is, one thing is to read out in particular: the failure of this government towards our Austrian youth! This report is a sad result for both the SPÖ and the ÖVP – as mentioned above – it is a cross-sectional matter – for the entire government. What does this report show in detail? – He shows, for example, an extension of the youth phase. That sounds positive, but it's not. This means nothing more than a higher age when leaving the parental household. 70.4% of the 20 to 24-year-olds and 34% of 25 to 29-year-olds still live with their parents. Worse it only looks at the antifa: According to studies, 92 percent of left radicals still live with parents. What does that tell us? – Apart from the fact that you should not be antifading that it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to build a life independently and independently outside the parents’ home. Of course, this also has to do with education policy in this country. According to the report, there has been a continuing trend in the last few years to extend education in schools. So the youth is increasingly in training, thus entering the labour market later, earns money later, of course pays taxes later and lives longer with parents, as I said. I have no objection in principle if young people are in training longer to achieve higher qualifications, but the latter is not the case. On the contrary, the young people sit longer in school, but may be less and less. 30 percent of compulsory school graduates in Austria cannot read and write meaningfully. And what does the government do? – Instead of improving the quality of the education system, which is one of the most expensive in all of Europe, it extends the education requirement until 18 and thus obliges students to simply endure longer in this system. That is the wrong approach, ladies and gentlemen. It depends on the quality of education and not on the quantity of the years of training! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the language also plays a major role in this context. Reportedly, 24 percent of 15-29-year-olds now have a migration background, 12 percent of which do not even have compulsory schooling. For comparison only: The German-speaking population is below 3.5 percent. Why is that so? Because they're underprivileged? – No, but quite simply because they cannot speak German. Without knowledge of the language of the country in which You won't be able to be successful in school or in life. No, rather, you will never be able to be part of society as long as your language is not good. Of course, in addition to politics, parents also have a great responsibility. How to learn the language – learn it properly! – if you don't even talk to her at home? We have the situation that every fourth child does not speak German at home. This is even worse in Vienna, because every second child does not speak German at home. There are no integration efforts from home. For these people, then, there is a need for some form of consequence at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But not only at home, but also at school, the children do not speak German with each other. There are some school classes in Vienna with a 90 percent share of foreigners, where German speaking or successful integration can no longer be a talk at all, because everyone knows: As long as the proportion of foreigners is low in one class, integration is possible as soon as the proportion of foreigners is more than half, integration is no longer possible. Therefore, for example, it would be urgently necessary to introduce German in the school break. – Also a call we have been making for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where do many of these young people land without German knowledge and without training? – They seem to be landing in youth gangs. As this report says, there is an increase in the number of foreign youth gangs in all parts of Austria and thus also in many brutal attacks, especially at Austria's railway stations. But what does politics do? - She's silent. The judicial system and the executive are partly bound. In this context, the Vienna study on the radicalisation of youth, which came out a year ago and which showed that many young Muslims have a highly explosive and radical attitude, is also remembered. We are constantly – and this is especially bothering me – putting our resources into these imported problems instead of dealing with the problems of our own, Austrian youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us come back to the report: Youth unemployment is of course also an important issue – there are 76,000 young unemployed – and we also have 400,000 young people at risk of poverty and so on. We have many problems, but instead of countering this development, this government is also pursuing a huge debt policy at the expense of the coming generations, and this is particularly to be criticised. This is, in short, simply irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. To sum up, we must say to this report: It's a failure report. In order to ensure a positive future for the Austrian youth, for the next generations, rethinking is urgently necessary. However, this government seems unable to do so, it has already proved this several times with the hundredth restart.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15508	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15529	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We are now discussing the youth report, and I would like to start with all the young people. People sitting in the gallery say hello. I am very pleased that you are here, even because this item on the agenda is being negotiated. You've heard a lot about the youth report now. That's the youth report, it's a lot of paper. [[keeping an exem-plar in height]] I have to say: The report is good, it lists a lot of interesting data. Some things have already been said by my colleague, Asdin El Habbassi, for example, that young people also speak in the report. The report is really the result of a collection of good data material with which you can work. The headquarters is just: It makes no sense to have data material and numerous analyses available if then the actions fail are missing. And that's what it's all about here in the high house. What we should decide here are measures to improve the situation of young people in Austria. Unfortunately, the paper alone does not improve its situation, whether it is in the middle of or at the end of the legislative period. We produce kilometre-long paper sheets of reports, in fact we know exactly what the large construction sites are: We need a total reform of our education system, because this is inefficient because it is unfair; there are still enough young people who do not find a teaching place that does not find a job – we have the highest youth unemployment in history – and we have exploding rents in the cities. These are some of the topics we know that we must act there, but they are de facto not coming from the Federal Government. I will now focus briefly on an aspect which, as the report points out, is very important for young people, namely: sustainable living. The rents in the cities have actually exploded in recent years. First of all, this affects young people in such a way that they live longer at home, which brings their parents to the border of risk of poverty. Secondly, it has an impact on them to move out and to get their first home, because it is becoming more and more difficult. And thirdly, it is a matter of setting up a family and therefore of looking for an apartment. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] So the exploding rents are a massive problem. At the moment, young people spend about half of their income, partly even a little more, for living, especially in Vienna, especially in the agglomerations. In Vienna, we have the situation that rents for new contracts, which are concluded today, are about 80 percent higher than rents for new contracts concluded in 2008. In 2008 I came to Vienna to study here. At that time, an apartment – a new contract – was 80 percent cheaper than today. That is to say, there are actually exploding rents in the cities, and, on the contrary, nothing is done de facto. There's a speculation bubble right now, and that's actually what we need to talk about here. We really have to do with speculation. There are private investors and institutional investors who are currently driving rents so high that the apartments are no longer manageable for young people. I would like to quote briefly what was agreed in the 2013 government programme under Chancellor Faymann by Red and Black – quote –: ‘Prices and prices Costs for living space have increased disproportionately since 2005. Measures shall therefore be taken specifically to ensure adequate coverage of the housing needs.’; This would require a uniform rental right, transparent rental rate formation, the withdrawal of the rental contract fee and a reform of the operating cost catalogue. You agreed on this by Red and Black in 2013. Now, as it were, there is a new edition of the government programme under the German Chancellor's core, and there is nothing left of it. It has therefore been approved of the central social issue which is currently being raised and which really makes life difficult for young people in Austria. What would have to be done? . We actually have some sort of Lulu right at the moment, that is, it doesn't work. Apartments in buildings built before 1953 are considered old building apartments, and for that there are also direct rents, but the landlords beat on what they want. That's the reality right now. All that has been built since 1953 is the so-called new building. Since then 64 years have passed – 64 years! – but all this is considered to be new construction, and this new building is nothing more regulated at all. There is Wild West, the right of the stronger, there is no way to sue later. We currently have a rental right, which does not regulate anything at all. Especially young people who are now looking for rental apartments are completely extradited to turbocapitalism. So we need a rental right, which clearly regulates how high the surcharges may be and makes it transparent what the rents are required for. That would be a very central point. We need a reform of rent law. The second point – and it is important to me to mention it here – is the broker fees. You have to pay two monthly rents on real estate fees, which is true for most new apartments. On this point I have so far made two requests, and these two requests have simply been postponed by the government parties in the committee, which is called that. That means they disappear in the drawer so that they are not discussed here in plenary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] But the broker fees are a big problem at the moment: Young people looking for an apartment have to pay them even though they are researching the Internet themselves. Through the Internet, the market has changed insanely, and today you can search for apartments yourself on the Internet. So you pay for something for which there is hardly any performance, because actually you don't need a broker, because you were looking for yourself. Last year, Germany introduced the model of the ordering principle: Those who order the broker pay the brokers; with us only the tenants pay the brokers' fees. We Greens are in favour of paying – as is the case in Germany – those who award the order. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This will finally be introduced in Austria! That would be something we could do a little bit to make housing more affordable for young people, for young families, for relief in this area. For this, the first step would be to allow these applications to come to the plenary and be discussed by us. I don't know what the government is doing, but she'd rather discuss the Burkina for a year. Quite honestly, the real problems that are currently in place in Austria are also the rental prices. They are inconceivably high, they are not manageable for young people, and I think that something has to be done at last. Another point in the Government Convention: Leave the rental fee you currently have to pay. Do you know when this was introduced? – 250 years ago, Maria Theresia introduced this fee because of the high rate of illiteracy that officials had to translate, which meant the contracts. This rental contract fee still exists However, there is no longer any benefit for it, the money goes only to the financial office. That would be something we as a state, which we politicians here today could simply abolish from tomorrow. This would also ensure relief when new rental contracts are concluded in the cities. I think that would be solidarity, that would be appropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not possible that only our boy will adapt by moving out of the parents' house later, by moving into WGs, so to speak, living in smaller spaces. At a time when more and more people are moving into the cities, solidarity is not only referring to adapting to this new situation unilaterally, but also to the fact that the owners are also adapting to this situation and that laws are made in such a way that no one can really take advantage of the others. The latter, in view of this speculation bubble, which is currently in place, is unfortunately far too often the case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15656	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15678	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Report on the situation of young people in Austria: A current and comprehensive overview of the situation and prospects of young people in Austria offers a three-part report from the Ministry of Family Affairs. On a total of 436 pages, not only figures, data and facts from different sources and studies are presented and presented, but also estimates by young people themselves. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. In January 2016, there were about 1.6 million young people aged 14 to 30 in Austria. I have read this report very carefully and it is exactly 1 607 298. Mr. El Habbassi, you said: about two million. Demographic ageing has been apparent for some time now, and birth rates have declined. There is a need for urgent action. The families, the children, the youth belong to more promoted and supported. Mrs. Minister, the new child money account is not enough for Weitem. At the next item on the agenda, we have the opportunity to prove this. We have longer periods of education and rising youth unemployment, and since 2000, youth unemployment has increased dramatically. Compared to most other EU countries, it is lower in us, but still far too high. This report also clearly shows that young people need training, education and a secure job. Of course, we must pay great attention to what Mr Julian Schmid has mentioned, namely the prices of housing. We must do everything we can to ensure that young people in Austria are able and secure in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15711	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15732	Madam President. Dear Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I hope it is more there, because we should take the youth report seriously, and if I look at the presence here in the hall, I am very affected as grandfather of 14 grandchildren. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] – Yes, the family party ÖVP is loudest, exactly. I'm going to test you today. Today, at the next item on the agenda, you can still prove how you represent the family point. Now I would have liked to say something to Mr Schmid, as I am somehow shocked that a young Member is drawing such a negative picture. After all, I have four married children. If I look at how we discussed this youth report in the Family Committee, it was actually very meaningful. The experts who spoke there were loud young politicians. In Upper Austria, this ends with the head of state. There you plan your own career from the political cradle, from the boy ÖVP. On one hand, the honourable Member spoke, on the other, of the scientists. The only young people who spoke of life from experience, I brought with me, that was Marlene Winter, a cook who makes a dual education, cook and matura. She actually spoke very positively. That was very interesting. [[Abg. Eßl: Did she come voluntarily?]] She said that the offers for youth were great, and she also asked for the youth to come in more and offer more and not just ask how we have just heard it. Let's take a look at this: In the country outside, the conditions are difficult, we know what to do if you are seeking a career with teaching. The young people are already on their way to work in the early days, often come home late in the evening, the apprentice compensation is not great. In addition, some of them are still volunteering at an association, helping at home – whether in business or in agriculture – or in the parental residence. If you see how satisfied these people are, we can't draw the situation so gloomy. If someone chooses the hard way to study, then he will have to come out with the rental apartments offered there. We can't say now that we probably need to build student residences – they would get a little more expensive! – but we have to look at reality, I think, with the necessary eye. That's very important. I am very confident of the young people. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] Thank you. Mr El Habbassi said: I think that this period of 14-30 years is too far-reaching to speak of young people. Is a 27-, 28-year-old youthful? I think you should be a little more rigorous about the definition. Of course, this is a group of 1.6 million people, but I believe that if you want to vote at 16 years of age, if you feel that you are a powerful democrat at 16 years of age, then you have to be released into adult life. Youth unemployment has been addressed: 10.6 percent is far too high, in Germany it is 7.5, I think the target would be 0 percent – with some exceptions. That would be to create, we have enough companies that offer jobs. What has not yet been said: A job or a study place is very important for young people to find meaning and purpose and to have a job. In some European countries, we already see youth ranches, which are almost impossible to control. What happens if young people do not have a job? – Prior speakers have already spoken of criminal associations. I think it's the worst thing to do when young people fall out of the social network – they come back hard, hard to integrate. There is a question of whether some of the models offered there are for young people or for their own purpose, I would like to say that clearly. We from the Stronach team are very confident about youth. I am also very confident that we can rely on youth. We as politicians must not take this confidence, this joy and this courage. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is essential for policy to be limited to creating the necessary framework conditions. That's why: The future applies to young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15795	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Karmasin, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15816	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I'm glad you're here. For the seventh youth report, I believe that: We have chosen a new approach, which on the one hand is that we have presented this report in the current period of government – and not at the end of the period – in order to consider and discuss further steps together on the basis of it. This is an important factor. Secondly, As has already been said, young people have been involved. This is central to hearing the voice of youth and bringing it into the report. I think three very important methodological approaches have been achieved with these three parts. On the one hand, part A on all things worth knowing, all studies and facts, data on the topic in Austria and in European comparison. This, I believe, has been excellently successful in the statistics of Austria and the Danube University of Krems. I think this content is very suitable to build on it to possibly repeat this report. Secondly, for the first time, the Better Life Index has been set up with special reference to young people – how they define quality of life, which factors are important to them, how the situation is currently marked. The instrumentarium is also excellent to continue writing and to be able to compare it annually or at certain intervals. This has not been achieved in the last reports of this kind. When we see that the young people in Austria reach 78.2 out of 100 points in this Better Life index, we are not very, very satisfied, but we are quite satisfied, especially because older people, i.e. adults, are below with 75.6 points. This makes us a little bit, but of course not completely satisfied. We must continue to work in many areas. Point C is the co-examination of all youth policies – and I stress: Measures – which, Julian Schmid, will achieve an improvement. That's not just paper, but it's all valuable projects of all ministries that produce something positive. I would also like to focus on the points raised by the Ministry of Youth. From Part A and Part B, I would like to highlight positively the fact that 43 percent of our young people are volunteering. 43 percent are a great value on the European average. In addition, we see an improvement in the housing situation – not the housing costs, but the housing situation – and the educational situation. activities and a reduction in the proportion of people with very low hourly wages. – These are some positive factors. However, there are, of course, groups – and I would particularly like to address certain target groups – which are disadvantaged, which we must particularly support. On the one hand, these are people with migration backgrounds who find a variety of problems and need special support. Secondly, it is young people who have only compulsory education. We must take special measures, such as the Education up to 18. Young girls, young women, too, are relatively located in the Better Life index rather in the lower range. So what do we need to clarify and what do we need to focus on? – Stress is a special challenge for young people, whether in the family or in social media or school. Secondly, education: Yes, I can only give all the previous speakers a right, we need more education. But we also need more recognition of informal education, which, I believe, is a point which lies in our, in my area. With regard to measures to combat poverty, especially in rural areas: We must ensure that young people continue to be able to work and live quality in rural areas and that they want to establish families. Integration and inclusion is something that will constantly accompany us, and of course also youth participation in the political process. I would like to point out that Leo Steinbichler is right: The Committee, with the participation of young people – from scientific to practical – was, I think, very successful in hearing and reflecting what moves young people. In short, to the Ministry of Youth: What programmes and measures are in the foreground? – I believe that out-of-school child and youth work is a very central and so meaningful and positive aspect, which is far too little attention. Young people choose to go there voluntarily and autonomously, to be involved, to be supported, to seek help, to seek information. They are not under stress and pressure, as they do in school, but they are in the foreground of voluntaryity, which also strengthens the self-esteem of young people. The year of youth work has taken out precisely these areas and has especially highlighted and awarded awards to projects in the field. The topic of media competence is also particularly important to us. We have set up the Digi4Family platform for young people, for families to train media competence accordingly, which is particularly important especially in times of cybermobbing, hate on the web and all these events. We are also particularly important to all factors related to the beauty image of young girls. In this We have offered the various workshops and will intensify them even further. I have already mentioned the training requirement until 18. Similarly, the focus on youth funding in the area of inclusion and integration is particularly prominent on the agenda this year and is accordingly important in the venue. Apart from the fact that we have given a special priority to the various parental education offerings in the area of integration, we cooperate particularly well with the local government in order to be able to anchor extra-school youth work even more closely in the communities. Finally, I would like to say that this youth report is not a final report, so it has already been presented. It is a starting point for further, extra-party discussions, and I really invite everyone – like that in the Committee – to discuss, discuss and take further steps together, not just in relation to the next report. There too, of course, we can take up certain issues in depth and place a special emphasis on them, but I would really like to work together on the youth-political challenges that are indeed a cross-sectional matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15896	Mr El Habbassi spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you are familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15920	Yes, and I refer to the statement that I had reported false figures in my speech. In fact, I would like to correct this: On page 38 of Supplement A to the Youth Report: “The age group of the 10- to 29-year-olds comprises around 2 million young [...].” Mr Doppler quoted the number from the Executive Summary, where: I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. In January 2016, 1.6 million people aged 14 to 30 were employed by young people. Mr Doppler, if you perhaps read the other data in addition to the Executive Summary, then you will see that I have not used any wrong figures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15953	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e15975	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The basic value analysed in the youth report is the Better Life Index. The Better Life Index stands for well-being and progress in our country, as they estimate our young people. I would like to say once that we have achieved 78 points from possible 100 points, which is quite a beautiful and tangible value. Just a short while to the method: According to the motto of our Mrs. Federal Minister, to make politics in Austria together with our young people, an online survey was conducted, there were workshops with young people, there were workshops with experts on health, prevention, youth work, youth welfare and youth policy. As a Member of Parliament from the rural area, I was very pleased to have an analysis: In this study on the Better Life index, two groups are defined. Unfortunately, in the risk group, those young people who live in the city are overrepresented in the urban area. In the top group, among the young people who see the future very positively, young people from rural areas are overrepresented. That, I mean, has its reasons. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this: On the one hand, the communities are places of closeness to citizens and direct democracy, and there too much dialogue is being held with young people, and there is a lot of youth work being done. Based on this analysis, the following can be concluded: We should strengthen our communities and thus also our young people. A great thank you goes to the country youth in Austria, because – this is the second point – there are always partners who also work on behalf of the Federal Minister programs. On the one hand, this is about the creation of leisure activities and the care of the Community, but on the other hand it is also about some educational work. I am allowed to bring here from the 2015/2016 programme of the Lower Austrian Land Youth Examples: Education opportunities in the field of occupational entry, education in the field of media competence, educational opportunities in the field of peaceful living together. From the next work programme for 2017/2018: Diversity – Integration – Inclusion, E-Youthwork and Generation Dialogue. Here you can see: Programmes launched at the federal level will be carried out in the federal states and also in the municipalities. I should like to thank Mrs Bundesminister and all the other parties involved for their commitment to the Federal Youth Fund and especially the Austrian Land Youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there are also many challenges. Without a doubt, it is also in rural areas that we want to advance youth perspectives, and especially those of girls and women. We want rural areas to remain a working and economic area, and we want to maintain and value the habitat. I believe that if we pursue our goals together, there will be much to celebrate. The youth report is a good example of the fact that there are always very nice results to be presented when you pull on a strand. In this sense: thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16029	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16050	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear spectators here in the house or in front of the TV devices! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join Mr Strasser in thanking not only an organisation for its work, but also a number of voluntary youth organisations, whether political or not, who simply do a great deal for children and young people throughout Austria. That's what I want to do. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Today we are discussing the seventh youth report on the situation of young people in Austria. I think it is very important that we discuss this today in plenary and that we did not end up in the Committee, but really debate it publicly, because children and young people are very, very rare in the public debate and cannot do so often enough. There are a number of positive aspects in the report, which is structured into three parts. One concerns, as already mentioned, the Better Life Index, which is a really central element and which is discussed and documented in detail in the report. As some of my previous speakers have said, it is It is very, very desirable and positive that young people have been able to participate and share in this youth report. But now I'm coming to the But, Mrs. Minister. It is important to explore the situation of young people scientifically. But the question is: According to what criteria were young people selected? Which topics were selected, and in particular which target groups? I have already said this in committee: There are clearly no groups of young people, such as young people with disabilities, young people who are in prison, young people who are housed in children's and youth assistance facilities, and unaccompanied minor refugees. Refugees are exclusively related to security policy in the youth report. That is why I would like to ask you: Why have these groups been hidden, why do they not occur? I would like to address some of the challenges facing young people. One is the later entry into self-employment, which, as already mentioned, often happens because the young people do not have a full-time job that is well paid – keyword: Generation internship – but also in the housing situation. We urgently need affordable apartments. It is incorrect what Mr Schmid said earlier that we had accepted the demand for affordable apartments for young people. This is enshrined in the new government programme, but by the way, the 2013 government programme also applies. I should like to remind you that housing aids – and there are also countries in the duty – are intended to make young housing affordable through this method. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we also have proposals on the table as regards rental rights. That is where I appeal to the coalition partner, because this would also make affordable living possible. A second area is the report, namely young people who cannot participate because they are excluded from the right to vote because of their non-citizenship: Mrs Minister, I think we need urgent action for a very large group of young people who cannot help shape their future. I think it urgently needs changes, whether in citizenship law or also in electoral law, because it is simply not responsible for excluding an entire group. In short, to a third area: Young people who have fled to Austria and have already completed their schooling often have difficulties in taking up other schools, higher schools, or in doing so. I believe that we, too, Mrs Minister, should have been more committed to training for asylum seekers and asylum seekers – which we unfortunately do not have – and not by reacting with unpaid internships. To conclude: It is important that there is this youth report. We only need it more meaningfully, and we need to picture all the realities of life of young people. Children don't happen at all. That's why my big request is: We need a holistic youth strategy. All Ministries, all the federal states have to take one line. I call on you at this point to make a strong contribution to an explicit children's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16124	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16147	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) From my point of view, the Seventh Youth Report of 2015 provides very precise and detailed basis on which to implement youth policies. It also shows a development, both positive and negative. For example, it is positive to note that the educational situation of young people has improved, i.e. there is a higher educational participation and there is a much lower tendency to drop-outs. However, there is also a clear difference between young people with German language and young people without German language. In other words, young people who do not have German as a language of use are much more often to be found among early school and training dropouts and are therefore already a larger risk group, which requires very special attention. It is to be hoped that up to 18 – Mrs Federal Minister – you have already referred to it – training will have a real impact in this area. A positive assessment is also the general health situation of young people. – Well, young people are usually healthier than adults. But there are also some areas of problem which have a particularly long-term impact, which can have a negative effect. There is a high proportion of teen smokers. There are many young people with lack of movement. There is malnutrition and associated diseases, and there is underweight and obesity. These are areas of deficit, which we would hope to be addressed in the families, but where this is not the case, I think it should be balanced – and it should be done – on the education system; that is, really every day movement in school, school canteens, which place a special emphasis on healthy vital food, really prohibit tobacco consumption under 18, just as the family minister has already suggested, and perhaps, as the WHO recommends, and as some other countries, such as Sweden, for example, think about higher taxation of highly sugary drinks. Given the fact that all these diseases, which I spoke about earlier, can have a very long-term impact both on the quality of life of individuals and on the health system as a whole, there is a real need for action here. The already quoted Better Life Index provides a very exciting insight into youth, which well illustrates the quality of life of young people in essential areas of life. If you look at the risk groups, I think it is particularly striking that in the group with the lowest quality of life – that is the neighborhood where many say that they have a rather poor quality of life and also bad prospects – especially many young women and girls find themselves. Now one can say that is very unusual because there are very many young people or especially young women who are well educated. But this is due to a partly subjective poorer sense of security and, of course, also to material differences. In this lower quarter there are disproportionately many people with migration backgrounds, i.e. girls and women with migration backgrounds should be given special attention, as they are equal to several risk groups. All in all, however, you can say: Ds is a very informative report, which shows the problem areas well and therefore also provides a good basis for action for the various ministries concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16195	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is the next speaker: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16217	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, the youth report gives a good insight into the lives of young people in Austria, also into the wishes of young people living in Austria, but of course it also shows very well the problems. I would like to take a very brief look at a point which I find particularly problematic, namely the fact that it is particularly difficult for young people from remote shifts to begin their adult life. I am convinced that we need to look at this very interface of school life in adult life and make every effort to support these young people as much as possible. I doubt, however, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes the debate we have here can actually help. I just remember that the OCTs are always being questioned. I am convinced that OCTAs are an excellent means of supporting young people. It does not make sense to distinguish between Austrians and Austrians with and without migration backgrounds. I think all children, all young people should be supported in this phase of life. Another point that I would like to address briefly is the fact that in special schools many young people are in a striking position with migration backgrounds. Mrs Minister, I really call on you to have an honest discussion in this debate about the possibility of the abolition of special schools, because it is useless to leave children in special schools. The problems are not gone. This debate must be conducted honestly, because I do not think that children with migration backgrounds are simply more unintelligent. I just can't imagine that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know not all people are equal. But I am convinced that it is necessary to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities and that you, as a youth minister, are indeed required. One point that is particularly important to me has already been mentioned by Mr Gamon, namely the different regulations on child and youth assistance, not only in terms of costs, but also in terms of control. Mrs Minister, we now have a chance to actually counteract it. You know, the Adult Protection Act is in review and comes on 14. ==References====External links== The Adult Protection Act would also have included the Home Residence Act, which regulates protection against restrictions of freedom. Unfortunately, this has been taken out, and this will lead to the failure of children and young people who are housed in children's and youth institutions to do so. Madam Minister, I really want you to know that you are also putting your political weight into this discussion, so that you can take up this unjustified differentiation and all children and young people with disabilities. the same means of control, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16271	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16292	On behalf of the Group of the This is always a good opportunity to analyze the current situation on the one hand, on the other hand, but also to draw conclusions from it, to identify problems and to meet them. In this context, I would like to briefly address two specific areas which are extremely important to me. What I have missed in the report is the important area, which is now often discussed in the government programme, of the harmonization of the nine laws on the protection of young people. Unfortunately, this does not refer to any mention, and apart from similar provisions in the field of alcohol consumption throughout Austria, I think it is essential that particular attention should also be paid to the areas of addiction prevention and health. For example, especially the protection of children and young people who cannot choose where they are taken by their parents. What am I talking about? – I’m talking about smoking in the car, and I’m talking about children in smoking areas. It would be important to have a special protection against youth at this central stage of the development of children. Mrs Minister, I hope you will be supported as Minister for Children and Youth. Countries such as Italy and, among other things, the UK are pioneers in protecting children from passive smoking. In this area, we in Austria have a considerable need for follow-up. A second area I would like to address briefly: They said we want to support the establishment of families and parents who have children. – In this context, however, it is also urgently necessary to support the already good network of childcare facilities, which is also constantly being expanded, so as to fill existing gaps that provide room for improvement. What am I talking about? – Among other things, I was told by the association KiB Children Care that parents often face the situation that the child is feverish in the evening, and is not clear how to plan the next day. You may have to go to work. The possibility of a care exemption in this context may not be given. And precisely in this situation, it should not be that the parents put the children in the crandling room, infecting the kindergarten, but it definitely needs caregivers – emergency muttis they were called by the association KiB Children Care – who jump into this situation. There are already associations that organize such a thing, but the offer should not only benefit people in individual districts, but it absolutely needs national support. That is why I hope that we can support this demand that comes directly from the families throughout the country, and I also count on your support in order to be able to address it throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16347	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16368	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor Kern put it to the point when he said: What are we waiting for? It's time to reorganise things! And I think that this is very, very striking in terms of youth policy, because, as we have already heard, we are talking about two million people in our country. A talk about youth is often linked to the future, and we often forget that the future is not in a distant distance, but is quite, very close. Young people will soon become adults. Each of us who has children knows how fast it is. That is why it is important to act quickly. That is why I also criticise the youth report. Even if he provides a good overview of the lives of young people, he is an inventory, especially in Part A. But what we need is a programme of action, Mrs Karmasin, not only for young people, but also for children. I am deeply convinced that we all as parliamentarians are obliged to ensure that all children and all young people in our country have equal opportunities. This includes a warm apartment – here I am with you, Julian Schmid. Lumberly living will be a huge theme, as is the government programme. I'm inviting everyone to work on it. None of us could choose with which name he was born, no one could choose his home or nationality; whether our parents were rich or poor, we could not determine for ourselves. I therefore welcome many of the measures set out in the report that bring our young people forward – above all, the fight against youth unemployment. Overall, I wish – and this wish I expressly address to you, Mrs Minister – in the area of youth policy more courage, more cohesion and more commitment, including more inclusion of people with disabilities, so overall more strategy. So when we talk about the youth report, I would like to say one thing: act, act, act, not collect the data and explore it scientifically. Then we present one thing with a good youth policy: a foundation for Austria, because the youth is our foundation. I think that we in the National Council should give equal opportunities to all young people, and then we must move forward and act here in the House. In this sense, I am pleased to be able to build on the youth report. It is now up to us to move forward and work for our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16414	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-330 and III-330 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:44:22]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1728/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on “Child care allowance for several children – each child must be equal in value” (1473, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16463	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mühlberghuber is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16490	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a coincidence that we're discussing child care money again today, because today, on 1st. March 2017, the novelle of child care benefits will enter into force. Despite the expensive information campaigns, the flow of enthusiasm is limited – and that is not wrong. The new child care account, which replaces the package variant, confuses many young mothers, because what actually changes is the reference period. In the case of the variants, the months were mentioned earlier, and now the months have become days. At first, mothers often have nothing to imagine when they hear, they can have 851 days of reference. This is difficult then they usually need a computer to know how many months they can stay at home. The duration of the claim has also been reduced as far as single mothers in particular are concerned, and our years of demand for child care allowances to the inflation rate has not been met again. The Federal Government – Mrs Minister, I also address you – has not used the novel to better promote families in subsequent births. The request for “child care allowance for several children – each child must be of equal value” which we are discussing today will be supported by us, by the liberals, has also been supported in the Committee, but has been rejected by the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ. Even with the new childcare allowance, nothing has changed in the legal situation for follow-up births, the entitlement to child care allowance for the older child ends with the birth of the younger child. Furthermore, the multiple births are also discriminated against, so only the first child receives the full childcare allowance, and for the second and further children only a 50 percent supplement follows. In addition, the child care allowance rests for the mother even if she is entitled to weekly benefit before the birth of another child. Our concern to increase the low birth rate is therefore: Childcare allowance should be paid in parallel with subsequent births. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of multiple births, we demand a 100% supplement, because each child has the same value and the same status in our society, at least according to our principles of family support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16536	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16560	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief introduction to the request made by the Stronach team – Mrs. Col. Mühlberghuber has just carried it out: If two children are born relatively briefly in a row, it may have happened earlier that one has fallen by a certain proportion of the childcare allowance. In fact, this situation should not exist now with the child care account Newly, because it is possible to collect the remaining amount at the end of the reference period and then move into the next phase. [[Abg. Neubauer: What does that mean: “It shouldn’t be”?]] - That's it. The second area is that the Constitutional Court has found that in the case of multiple births, a 50 per cent supplement in child care is justified. ==References== March: Today, the new child care account enters into force and provides more fairness because it provides for the same amount of money regardless of the period of reference. – This is the first aspect. The second aspect: At the request of the parents, this system has also been made more flexible. In other words, the reference period can be chosen in principle within a framework and the reference period can be changed once during this period. And the third aspect I would like to mention is partnership. There is a 1 000 € bonus when the parents share the care benefit 50 to 50 or 60 to 40. It is discussed again and again in these days – strongly debated – where this federal government stands as a member of the family. I would like to put forward a few arguments that clearly support the fact that the families in Austria are very concerned about us. On the one hand, Professor Mazal's ÖIF study, which states: Between 2000 and 2014, the inflation rate is 33.5 percent. The increase in family expenditure, relating to a child, has experienced an increase of 44 percent, so the increase was far above the increase in inflation. Secondly, it is mentioned here: The increase in family support was 4 per cent in 2014, 1.9 per cent in 2016 and 1.9 per cent in 2018. Then in 2015 there was the tax reform, from which families benefited above average, then the 2017 budget with additional expenditure of € 60 million from the family budget. Finally, a small outlook for the next few months: indexing family aid abroad. In this too, the Federal Government has pledged that the purchasing power in the countries in question, where this child lives, has to be indexed for family benefits. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister, and I agree: The birth rate is rising. More and more people in this country are saying: Yes, Austria is a family-friendly country! We already have second place in Europe ranking. And important and right projects have been launched. We stay on it, and that with all the consequence. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16594	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16618	Thank you, Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Of course, one can positively assess the birth rate, only we know how far we are from the actually needed birth rate that we would need to be able to hold our population. The essential thing is: We are just discussing an improvement in the family sector, each child should be worth a lot. Some of this has been implemented, but the facts look so good that we still have a lot to do. It's about the multiple births: Gemini and drillinge. The costs are given, from children's equipment to clothing to vaccinations. I think it is very essential, and the President of the Catholic Family Association Alfred Trendl also criticised the fact that there has been no balance in the rate of inflation, Mr Strasser. If we are talking about essential improvements, we must always see from what point of view we are looking at these improvements. I am also thinking of shortening the reference period by two months: If someone is in the longer variant – especially the single mothers and mothers with more children – this can mean a loss of up to €700 in child care money compared to earlier. We must remain realistic. As I said, Families are the most important, cheapest and most affordable cell for the state and the future – no question. I have also mentioned it, ladies and gentlemen: There is still a very large manco with regard to the appreciation of mothers, whether alone or in a partnership, and the service they provide to our state and our society. Thus, we are in charge of child training periods for the pension. It is an essential point that the performance actually provided is also paid. We can't comfort mothers with statements of intent – that's unbelievable. Mr Wöginger has even calculated that this is an investment volume of € 280 million, which will unwarrantedly keep mothers away, and I think it is important to know that € 280 million would be for our economy. Families invest regionally, children are clients in the region, regardless of whether for school education, for training, for clothing or for housing facilities – these funds are immediately effective for the local, regional economy. That is why, I believe, there is absolutely no need for action. As already stated, it is essentially a matter of fair treatment of the performance of mothers. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is why I am also addressing myself today with the request to the family party colleagues – who are very committed to making a confession – as well as to all other colleagues to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16679	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16759	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16781	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, today is the day when the new child care account is effective. The basis for this was that many parents wished for this because it was too complicated to have the income-dependent child allowance first and then four variants. The four variants were relatively rigid, now the possibility has been created to say: Not those who get it the longest get the most money, but each child has an amount, and he is to be divided from the parents as they would like it. It has the positive side effect of saying: If the parents share it in about half, half – 60 to 40 is the least variant – then there is also the partnership bonus. That means, for the first time, it is regulated that you receive € 15 499 plus € 1,000 for a child, if you really share the care 60 to 40. This includes, for example, the papal month, where the father can stay at home with the child within the first months, between 28 and 31 days and receive 700 €. I think, especially the partnership bonus, the possibility of simply spending a month together with the childcare allowance is a very good thing. Single parents also receive substantial improvements, as opposed to old childcare benefits. You can change the reference time. And that is also a point, Mr Leo Steinbichler, whom we have already discussed in committee. In reality, your request is outdated. Because now, if I have a child, I can get child care allowance with the new account and I can change my reference version 91 days before the end of the reference period. That is, I even have the opportunity to change it again, to have the whole money paid out for the first child, and for the next child I do the same. That is why we have rejected the request, because it is actually obsolete. He has dealt with today's change. And the second request, I would like to comment more on: The topic of retirement times per child, child training times, we have long discussed in the Committee. You know all the reasons we don't agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16820	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16841	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “Child care allowance for several children – each child must be worth the same amount” – we heard that. This is a very good request from Mrs Dietrich. Mrs Lueger! This request has not been completed, but is still open! Childcare is paid to the youngest child. That's right. There are innovations in the children's money account, Mrs. Minister. Nevertheless, as far as the multiple births and twin births are concerned, this request is not complete. I have to say that quite honestly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If another child is born in the time of reference, the claim for the older child ends on the day before birth – Mrs. Col. Mühlberghuber, not on the day of birth, but a day before birth – the younger child. I think it is important that the state continues to create incentives. Policy must take and take action. On the one hand, we hear again and again that the birth figures are going back, but on the other hand, too little is done for the families and for the children. I now come to Mrs Dietrich's request. For example, in the case of multiple births: This scheme is in no way satisfactory. It would be very important to increase the number of births in Austria. How can you achieve that? – By increasing the childcare allowance. Mrs Minister, the new child money account is not the big throw, but it is true that it is better than in the past as far as the four different variants are concerned. It would be very important – and I think Mr Steinbichler mentioned this – for each child to have the full insurance period for the calculation of pensions and also to pay the full amount of child care allowance for each child, regardless of the age of the other children, or whether it is twins or a multiple birth. Families, more families belong to supported and supported. It is not the case, as Mrs Lueger said: The application was completed. This is still more important than ever! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16894	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16917	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to clarify something now, especially in the direction of Team Stronach and FPÖ and also in relation to my previous speaker: Childcare is not about a mother's allowance, nor about a shepherd's premium, but it is about the fact that for parents – hopefully more and more for fathers too – and I hope that also with this child care account New, which is in force today, for more fathers – the time is compensated for, the parents stay at home and care for their children. So it's not that we're looking at staying at home for as long as possible, but that you're as well cared for and can take care of the children at that time. That is why, from my point of view, the proposal – and we have discussed it in committee too – is not always necessary to bring it in again and again, and I see this as well as as Mr Lueger and Mr Strasser. I think one of the benefits of this child care account New is the fact that you can change in the middle of time or whenever. That is, if you suddenly get a second child unplanned and have requested a different period of time, you can change, have the money paid out and apply for it again. That's actually an advantage. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] What I would like to do with one of the unfortunately few benefits; it is precisely today that this will enter into force. We know that for a few days now all hotlines have been running hot in counsel stations, but also in the ministry, because the people are not informed about the new child care account. I believe – and we have mounted it again and again – that it is a very complex system, although it is a sum; that is, as it were, the one story. But the system itself is very complex, partly very unclear and not self-speaking. That raises a lot of questions, and many people are overwhelmed. I'm wondering, Why have the health insurance companies, why have people not been provided information material, application forms? – Mrs Minister, you have talked a lot about this in the media, but you have not given families the appropriate material to be well-informed. Whatever bothers me, these are the things that we have repeatedly criticized, such as the papal month. This is always highlighted in so far as it is a great achievement that there is now it. I think this is a bit of a farce, because there is still no legal claim for the papal month. So it depends on the employer's goodwill whether there is the month or not. The second story I highly criticise is: These €700, available for the papal month, will be deducted from the total amount. That now family time bonus is a bit of a joke. I would have more criticism – unfortunately, my speaking time is over. However, we are still making ongoing requests because there is something to be repaired in the childcare account. I would like to ask for support in order to correct these misdemeanors over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16969	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e16991	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Childcare accounts and Mrs Dietrich's request are the subject. My previous speakers have already made it very clear. In fact, the application is obsolete, it has been passed through the child care account. But I would like to address a few problems, especially what you said, Mrs Lueger: It is not that way that the problem has been solved completely. There are two options that can be used in principle: the lump sum or the income-dependent childcare allowance. If a child comes, you can change the amount of the flat rate, but not the income dependent. I can't. But now we know – and we simply have to think about it more carefully – that in the political debate we are very often dealing with the issue of father participation. Then again, I come to the issue, which is often referred to by social democracy, namely the difference in income between men and women. We know that there is really a higher income for the fathers than for the mothers. That is, if one wants to address the fathers more strongly, one can also talk about the income-dependent childcare allowance – but this can't be reconstructed when another child comes. That is, as long as these two variants are not made more flexible, the father participation remains problematic for so long. We from NEOS have tabled a proposal – we have already put forward several proposals – namely: In essence, from our point of view, it would be useful to take advantage of the advantages of both variants, namely that you take the variant, instead of the package variant simply a minimum amount, which is however income-dependent and also monthly-dependent. That is, the childcare allowance as it is now is a clear step forward, but it does not help to actually raise the father's participation and also the mothers... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] It's a little bit of an eye-catching, because if it really helped, you'd have to take more money into your hand, and you didn't. It's a step forward, but it's not enough incentive to give someone a single €700 to go to father's care. You know my attitude, I'm half-half. But I believe that we also need to give appropriate incentives to what has not yet been done. The important and final point is: After the reform is before the reform. From my point of view, it would be the next important step to summarize in an overview – then there would be fewer calls in the ministry – how it works exactly: Minimum cover and income dependent and again significantly shorter, combined with a legal claim to a kindergarten starting from the first year of life, because it does not help any mother to be able to go to work earlier if she has no care place. This must be regulated up to the last market community, not only in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17045	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17066	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! ==References== March, and we are very happy and proud that today's child care account will enter into force again. Why? – Because for parents optimal freedom of choice, individuality and flexibility have become possible. As we have heard, in a daily corridor, any duration can be adjusted, provided fairly for each child with the same sum. So the state does not assess whether short or long better or worse, but a sum of up to €15,449 will be made available to each child equally and expanded to up to €16,449, even if the partnership bonus is additionally used. This sum is a bit more than with any classification now in the package variants. In any case, there is more money for our families, which is also reflected in the budget. We were able to win € 40 million more per year for the new system, which is at least a success in these budgetaryly tense times. Additional opportunities for parents – we have heard it –: Family time immediately after birth. That is, to experience the first time with the child together with the father is particularly important in order to establish gender roles in the long term from the beginning and to implement this even more in the longer term in one's own family life, if the partnership bonus is taken, where one more €1,000 can be added. I would like to point out that Fatherhood is a central concern of this new system. We'll see how the numbers develop. We are very, very positive and confident that we will reach at least 25 percent in the coming years, especially because the two key elements of family time and partnership bonus are also possible in the income-dependent system and this, as you say, is gladly used by the fathers. Wonderful, then they should choose the income-dependent system and not the account, we are all right – the main thing, the fathers decide for the time with their child! Apart from that, we can offer this possibility in the account system once again, not only speak of the parallel relationship immediately after birth, but also, as I said, the possibility of exchange, which is also a possible answer for the second or third child, and at least at an earlier birth ensures that the whole money can be collected – which is not the case at the moment, as we know, this is an additional advantage for our families – and can also be taken into account in the context of child care money and also money if the parents want to change over the course of child care, so that they can pay a transfer month for both parents. Summa summarum is it, I think, really a very good new classification to make the childcare allowance or the financial performance after birth for up to 35 months. But it is very important to me personally that we offer more flexibility, individuality and freedom for the families and with the family time, with the partnership bonus in addition can actually break up gender role stereotype in the long term and thus form a partnership family image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17115	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17136	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate focuses primarily on the welfare of children in our country. Many things have already been said, and I think that on the one hand, the compatibility of family and work and on the other hand, the choice of freedom and the possibility of child care after birth are important elements for families. Since today, the new child care account has been valid. As mentioned many times, it will bring more flexibility to families, and the freedom of choice will be improved accordingly. I think the rules are also really clear, and they take greater account of the individual needs of families. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I can thank you very much for your work in the child care account, but above all also for your staff in the ministry and in your cabinet for this valuable work. I think the result can really be seen. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, demands for more money are always tempting, but we should pursue and present them with a certain degree of attention and with a view to the expediency. In addition to the cash benefits important and ultimately crucial to families, the positive attitude of society towards children and, of course, to families is, above all and in principle. Austria can be seen quite clearly in terms of family benefits! For example, €1.2 billion is paid annually to families in the form of child care allowances. The uniform scheme now created allows for a child care allowance of up to €16,449. In total – this is not only about family benefits, but also about transfers, social benefits and so on, tax considerations – we are talking about a volume of €8 billion towards families in Austria. The increase in family support in recent years – Mr Strasser has already said this in detail – which will be increased again next year, or the doubling in the amount of withdrawal: all these are decisive steps taken by policy. However, essential resources are also provided for the care and extension of childcare, and these will also be provided. It is interesting how some numbers develop. For example, the Chamber of Labour and the Institute for Family Research have jointly established that for the period from 2000 to 2016 expenditure for the families in Austria increased by more than 50 percent, and that is by 12 percent more than the inflation rate in the period 2000 to 2016. So we can be quite proud of that, even if sometimes with us – and this is Austrian mentality – of course a bit saddened. We may also be able to criticize a little, but let us hold on to the fact that in Austrian politics – and this is true for both parties in the Federal Government – families and children really enjoy a high priority, even though some still do not want to see it completely. The children are treated equally. Some can't follow yet, Team Stronach or, for example, some in the FPÖ's tow. However, family kindness cannot be exclusively regulated and defined by laws and financial matters. Family kindness is primarily characterized by mutual respect and personal understanding for the children and their families, their parents. What does this actually look like in our country? How do neighbors react when families move with children to the region? How do we deal with this when perhaps the kids on the playground are a little louder? Or how do we react when they are in public transport for me? Or are it louder in our neighborhood? Do we respond with understanding, or are some perhaps skeptical to annoyed? I think family kindness begins with the very personal attitude, and it ends with a comprehensive commitment to the needs of children and families and to promote and support children and families. The family and social policies undertaken by policy support this. We do with today's decision, thus making the child care account with 1. March becomes effective, a valuable contribution in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17199	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17221	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear visitors! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said, but one can say: Austria is a very family-friendly and open country. We are well-known beyond the borders for always and daily effort for our families. Especially for us of the ÖVP, the values of family and children are a great asset. In international comparison, Austria takes a top place at €6 billion each year in terms of cash benefits. We do something for our families and also for our youth. It has already been said that over the last 16 years, the total cost for families has increased by more than 50 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said today, much positive about the childcare account, about the flexibility, about the fairness and partnership of the parents who are important. But it is also important that there is still the option – and we have – that parents can choose between the flexible flat-rate child care account and income-dependent support. The unique change in the period of reference also brings a great deal of flexibility for parents. Nevertheless, it is important that there is freedom of choice as a whole and that it exists. It is especially important to look at the young parents. Time after birth is often very intense and intense for the young parents. It is important that they have time to support each other and that the father also has the opportunity to build an emotional bond to the child. Especially for the Jungpapas, the possibility is that they can obtain a family time bonus for 28 to 31 days. Partnership should be called into question especially when a child is being raised together. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only are we constantly required in Parliament; as mayor I know what it means to offer something for the families outside and to be there for the parents. It is a matter of course today that there is a new folk school, that it is in a top condition, that there are wonderful kindergartens, that there is an afternoon care, that there is infant care, that there is a beautiful children's playground. All these are things that are of course for us, but that cost a lot of money and that the communities in particular have to do – of course always with the support of the state and the federal government. Nevertheless, it is important to be there for our families, especially if they need us. Especially children are a gift from God, but they are also a great challenge, and having them is a great responsibility. They also cost very much Money. That is why my request to our minister is that she continue to stick to it, and I ask all of us that not only our politicians, our mayors – no matter what role – remain that a new step can be taken for families in the future in order to improve something. In any case, there is the possibility that Austria will again be a lot more family-friendly and attractive to our young people, that they will also choose to have a child in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17275	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1473. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Improved retirement periods per child for childhood'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[16:23:00]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2016/20 (III-320/1506 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17333	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Margit Kraker. We are going into the debate. Mr Mayer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17371	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! There was an interesting last Court of Auditors meeting. First, we have a current debate with our representative at the European Court of Auditors, Oscar Herics, together with Mrs Mag. Spindelegger on the same subject that we then discussed with the EU financial report. There is criticism from the European Court of Auditors of the difficult audits in the area of EU financial instruments, such as the European Stability Mechanism and the European Investment Bank. The so-called Juncker Plan, the EU's hundreds of billions of euros investment programme to reduce unemployment, also shows control gaps from the European Court of Auditors' point of view. Similarly, lack of access to the ECB has been criticized. System failures, which also concern us in Austria, led for the first time to a financial correction in the field of management of Austrian EU projects of a total of € 10 million. The European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, ERDF, are particularly affected. A knowledge of this is certainly that we not only want to, but also strive to have the direct opportunity to control the direct support of the Court of Auditors to understand it. Secondly, the debate today is as follows: The Court of Auditors' EU financial report is a voluntary performance of the Court of Auditors, but I believe that, in my view, it is an indispensable achievement that the Court of Auditors offers us, as it provides essential conditions for acting in the area of financial flows. I assume that Mr Rossmann will address this in particular, including the special problem of Brexit, the withdrawal of a large net payer from the EU. It is important that the financial flows are also included as a national Parliament, can be discussed and, if necessary, looks at the necessary measures to be taken. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I think that this report should be an occasion for us to do so in a similar way. I believe it is important for us as the National Council to have first of all contact with our representative in the European Court of Auditors and to hold a debate and then to do the same with you in relation to your current report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17410	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17431	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! I can welcome you all and comment briefly on the EU financial report 2014. It is a very comprehensive reference work which shows Austria's position in the EU budget and provides a general overview of the EU budget. The report provides more transparency, and I believe it is particularly important for Austria to see the position of Austria. We're net payers, we're at 8. Put it, we pay €1.3 billion more net in the EU cash register than we get. This is, of course, negative. Let us look at the following: One of the most beneficial countries is Poland. Poland is the largest net recipient, Germany is the largest net payer with 17.7 billion €. This might be a good fit: The new Foreign Minister of Germany, Sigmar Gabriel, has paid us a visit to join us and has said that we have to be more honest, because Germany is by far the largest net payer on the paper, but also the largest profiter in the EU, and that is the net sum in the case of Weitem. What about the return flows in Austria, with the €1.5 billion we get back from the EU that we pick up? – Most of the funds go into the agricultural funds and the other part of the Structural Funds, as we have just heard. What about the use of resources? – It looks like the agricultural fund in particular has a return rate of 96.4 percent. This is a very, very good value and certainly also depends on the fact that in agriculture we offer very interesting, target-oriented programmes; whether this is mining promotion, whether environmental promotion or also conservation of cultural goods and so on. I think we are very well positioned. The programmes are also very well accepted by people. Of course you have to say that, because this is not a matter of course, because it may be that you offer programs that are not then used. This is also partly the case with the Structural Funds, which we unfortunately cannot use so well. 66 percent of us can only use that, according to the EU, is also related to the administration, but in my opinion it is also particularly true that the complex funding directives are becoming more and more extensive, which is why many say that the effort is simply not worth it, that they prefer it. This is all the more important when we look into the future. I would like to talk briefly about the present, the funding period from 2017 to 2020. It will be €317 million less, which we receive from the EU. Then it becomes all the more important that we take advantage of precisely these funding programmes and that we recover the funds from the EU. I think that's where we're all called together. The error rate is about 4.4 percent. It's an average value. There are major infringements, but very many minor infringements, false land information, for example in agriculture or simply amounts that have been filed which are not eligible. I don't think we're in a bad way at all. We are certainly required in the field of testing. I believe that this is also what our Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors are saying, that the auditors need to be trained even more, that they need to examine even more professionally in order to promote even more efficiency. Unfortunately, the future does not necessarily bring a better time in terms of money. My previous speaker, Elmar Mayer, spoke briefly: Brexit will also meet us massively in these areas. There are estimates that the EU budget will then have €5-8 billion less in money available. Where will this money go in the future? – The question is missing when you know where the funds are currently going. This will, of course, also be the area of agriculture. We are going to lose money, and I do not think that is what the Commissioner for Monetary Affairs, Moscovici, says, is that we can compensate for this through savings. The financial transaction tax will certainly have to be even more issue here, and Moscovici is also talking about having to get away from the Transfer Union, that we need a fairer distribution of funds in the countries in order to create more effectiveness. I think that we are very much in demand in the future, and I think there is a lot of work ahead of us. But I hope for a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17496	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17517	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I really want to thank you for the interesting reports, especially for the interesting EU financial report by Mag. Oskar Herics and his team. There has also been a lively and long debate on this in the Committee. Without me now repeating the numbers that the previous speakers have already mentioned: The fact is that Austria is a large net payer country and pays about €1.3 billion more per year to Brussels than it gets back. If I look at the situation in real policy and then remember how these return flows are handled, I have to say: It always says that we get money from the European Union, but we must not forget that we send much more money to Brussels than we get back under the rule. To formulate the picture: We spend 1 €, get 50 cents return and then say: [[Abg. Rossmann: That's not how it is!]] Thank you, dear European Union, for giving us such great support! – I would like to put that on the picture once in a while, so that the relations are clear as well. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Of course, the money is going on. As mentioned above, there are cuts in the budget of € 317 million. But what makes us very affected in Austria and especially in Tyrol, these are especially the cuts in the Brenner base tunnel, which stands in the house for 2020. The Brenner base tunnel has already been addressed, and you know how important and necessary is the Brenner base tunnel especially for us in Tyrol; what you realize when you look at the evolution of the numbers of transit journeys. Last year, we had far more than two million transit journeys through Tyrol – the numbers are increasing permanently – only in November we had around 20,000 trips more than in the previous year, despite the weakening economy. It is clear that this, of course, has been a massive burden on the people along the Inn valley since accession to the European Union and is logically suffering from the additional burden – not only noise, but also nitrogen pollution and additional pollution. We were promised a transit agreement when we joined the European Union, but it did not keep what we had promised. In the transit agreement, which was concluded in 1992 – after all, in 1995 we joined the European Union – and in 2003, the Tyrolean population has been promised that the pollution burden will fall by 60 percent on the basis of 1991. This has been tried to reach through the ecopoint system. That never happened, the opposite was the case! The burden has increased, and for the Tyrolean population it has become a real burden in the truest sense of the word, according to the motto: The European Union is driving over us, the Tyrolean population, literally – “over” in the sense of increasing traffic and transit charges. Since the transit contract did not keep what we were promised, it was right and necessary to build the Brenner base tunnel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] As a result, total costs of € 4.5 billion were originally assumed in 2002, and the European Union should contribute € 1.7 billion to this by 2019. That's almost 50 percent. In the meantime, however, the cost is no longer € 4.5 billion, but at € 8.7 billion – relatively open to the top. That means that the costs have doubled, only the contribution of the European Union, although it has caused this problem and thematics, has not increased. This is where I see a massive need for additional action in this question that is absolutely necessary and important for the people of Tyrol. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Now the exact opposite has occurred. On the one hand, the costs have exploded – to €8.7 billion – and on the other hand, the contributions of the European Union are reduced. [[Abg. Schimanek:... German!]] As already stated, the promised € 411 million for this project Brenner Base Tunnel will not be paid out for 2020. We miss 411 million €. Question: Who's the whole thing? – We just had a debate on family policy. Think about how much additional family policy benefits you could raise and vote alone with this €411 million! I would like an answer to this question. For us in Tyrol and also for Austria, it is essential, as it is with the overall financing of the tunnel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] € 411 million is missing. - Please, who's to pay for that? That is, on the one hand, we have a huge financing problem. This is the first problem, co-founded by the European Union, which is also the case. [[New call for tender Moser]] Herics has been openly addressed. It has rightly found that total funding is not. [[Abg. Moser: I've been saying that for 20 years!]] On the other hand – this is the second problem – the tunnel is drilled, and the access routes are not yet on track. We have access routes from the north and also from the south and especially from Germany for this project, which so far has not even been able to agree on the routes. The whole thing is happening under the umbrella of the European Union, which is also to be managed by public funds. It should not be forgotten that the European Union has invested €28 billion in this project for the period 2007 to 2013. But there is no coordinated strategy. On the one hand, the tunnel is built in Tyrol, on the other hand the funds are missing and the access routes are not on track. [[Abg. Moser: Why?]] [[Abg. Moser: Then it doesn't make any sense!]] The third thing we have always criticized liberals: There is also no guarantee for moving trucks from road to rail when the tunnel is actually on track. Now one suspects that the entire project might be realized in 2027. [[Abg. Schimanek: 37!]] So that's good and happy to be 10 years up to this time – ten years in which the population of Tyrol will suffer from these additional burdens. I therefore call for the fixed financing guarantee here at last. Not only is the €411 million missing, but the European Union's contribution must be increased. [[Abg. Moser: That doesn't use anything!]] That's our demand! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] You can't just leave us in the rain. I expect a corresponding presentation in Europe with a demand, with a financial package on the table, because without a corresponding commitment we cannot be satisfied. We will definitely demand this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17683	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17705	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Thank you very much, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, for this EU financial report, which certainly contains a wealth of data. However, – and I have already mentioned this in committee – the data refer to 2014, which is the first year of the new multiannual financial framework, and in this context a number of problems have already been addressed. I mean, the problem of the multiannual financial framework is, in particular, that the first time a cut in an EU budget has been made; under protest, I would say, the European Parliament, which has rightly had quite different ideas. We also had quite different ideas, because the EU's 2020 targets are set and this ongoing multiannual financial framework is not suitable to deal with these problems. This begins with climate targets and ends with poverty problems, and we do not want to talk about high unemployment at all. On the other hand, there are structural problems in the multiannual financial framework. In other words, the funds are actually broken down and broken down. Instead of pushing them into the future areas, many funds continue to wander in the wrong direction. And this is one of the central problems that we have mentioned several times in the development of the multiannual financial framework here. A problem also mentioned in this financial report is the reform of the EU's own resources system. It is noted that in 2011, there was a proposal from the European Commission to make the financial transaction tax its own tax. Now we write the year 2017, and we are actually miles away from having a financial transaction tax. Although we still have ten willing states, I have great doubts that a financial transaction tax in these ten countries is at all. That is, a reform of the own resources system is more necessary than ever. Much has been done in this direction since 2014. There has been a high-level working group under the direction of former Commissioner Monti. In the meantime, the final report is also in place, and it contains good proposals on how to reform this own resources system in order to finally get away from this net-payer debate. I would now like to dedicate my final remarks to this net payer debate. I believe that there is no debate on the part of the FPÖ here from this speaker's point of view without any EU-based support. It is said – yes, rightly – that we pay more to the European Union than we get back in funds, and so we are one of the net payers. That's right. Net pay number 1 is Germany, net payer number 2 France, net payer number 3 Great Britain – it will lose us, and that will hurt us all; we will have to discuss the consequences of this Brexit – and Austria will follow 8. Job. We just pay 0.32 percent of gross national income net in this pot. Whoever reads the newspaper “The Press” today knows – perhaps I can present it a little closer – that Austria is one of the big profiters of the internal market. [[Keeping up a newspaper article]] According to a study by the American Chamber of Commerce, Austria has experienced the largest growth in prosperity in all EU countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, this net payment position we have in Austria has been expected several times. That is already said at this point. A final word: The problem of growth in prosperity is that this increase was not evenly and above all not distributed to lower incomes. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it, exactly!]] However, I will come back once again in the debate on the next item on the agenda, under which we are discussing the Court of Auditors' incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17752	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17774	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The objective and content, figures, data, facts about this EU financial report from 2014 have largely been mentioned by my previous speakers. This report shows that in Austria, agricultural activity is very successful in mobilising the return of funds from the EU, but in many other areas Austria is still in need of recovery. From our point of view, the federal states in particular are required. The federal states are called upon to make greater efforts and to set up urgently needed programmes for urgent support measures, such as programmes for the revitalisation of urban centres. The historical centers of cities are becoming more and more empty. The outskirts of the city is expanded and therefore also all the related problems: new infrastructures, increasing loss of agricultural land. One speaks of the so-called donut effect of the cities: it becomes more and more inside hollow and outside. Furthermore, the federal states are required to strengthen their research and development activities and to further enhance the quality of research and development. We have only recently discussed a Court of Auditors report in which the Court of Auditors has also critically noted that the research landscape in the federal states is already worthy of improvement. We have just discussed this report. He also confirms that much remains to be done in this area and that the questions raised here have not been resolved for a long time. Mr Rossmann referred to the system of own resources to finance the EU budget. Although there are proposals, there is nothing specific, we are still far from one goal. This report is from 2014, now we have 2017 and many problems in this area have not yet been solved. I would also, of course, like to address other important areas that have to be addressed in connection with the EU and, of course, with the finances. It is relatively difficult to deal with the financial crisis, and the financial crisis remains obvious. So there is still a lot to be done by the EU, since it has not done its homework. The European Agenda for Migration 2015 can also be described as a failure. We discussed this in committee with the representatives of the European Court of Auditors, and this was confirmed there too. There are two test reports that will be completed soon. The European Migration Agenda 2015 failed. Unfortunately, there is nothing specific about this, so this is a problem that we will certainly have to deal with for a very long time. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] The high pension privileges of EU officials are a problem that no one has yet addressed and which, as I believe, I do not like to talk about – as well, is about privileges, pension privileges. This Chapter has been completely excluded until now. This is the case, because there is a lot of money, a lot of capital that needs to be raised. We should all be interested in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17835	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17856	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also speaking on the EU financial report 2014. The key indicators have already been mentioned: €2.9 billion goes to Brussels; €1.6 billion goes back to Austria via various EU programmes; we are €1.3 billion net. I would now like to ask the question: Figures of these payments make sense for Austria?, go a little bit to the ground. For a business operator, for an economist, this is very clear and very clear when looking at the economic indicators that have existed since 1995, since accession to the EU. Foreign direct investment in Austria has tripled. This created a lot of jobs. The export volume rose from €33 billion to €85 billion. Austrian exports are a success story, for which the EU has made a significant contribution. If we still have 10,000 export companies at the time of accession to the EU, it is now more than 50,000, more than five times as many. All economists say that at least 1 percent of gross domestic product growth is due to EU accession and east opening. A total of 350 000 to 400 000 jobs created by this integration process are spoken of. So the summation is very economic, very simple: The EU, even if not everything is ideal, is an economic success story. We need reforms in the institutions, we need progress in the area of bureaucracy, but in total, it is a success story. The EU financial report provides the relevant figures. There are many EU programmes, and I would like to take one out: the Leader programme; I myself am Leader-Obmann in the Leader-Region of Eisenstraße in Lower Austria. The Leader programme has been re-established, and I think it is a very good and exciting instrument. Why? – It promotes the bottom-up process. Leader requires regions to have a local development strategy, and leader requires citizens to be involved. I am personally also convinced that the projects in the regions will be good if they are carried by the population if there is an identification. Then these projects, these programs are successful. LEADER also has side shadows, we experience it daily in the processing: The programmes have, in part, become very bureaucratic. We must meet enormous formal requirements, rules on competition law, state aid law and procurement law. Of course, this is all legitimate, but I would like to make a loud appeal to you at this point: We need instruments closer to citizens and more unbureaucratic, because if project promoters say sometime that they are no longer submitting a project, because the process is too bureaucratic, then that cannot be the meaning of the European idea. This cannot promote the principle of subsidiarity. There is certainly a need for concrete improvements, for example in small projects: maximum project volume 5 700 € – and there too the bet- the right of advertising, the right of award, the right of aid, which is why, even in my region, project promoters are sometimes a bit cautious. This is the appeal I want to make to you, but overall Europe – and I am convinced of it myself – is, of course, an economic success story, brings or creates many jobs and is very important for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17912	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17933	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating the Court of Auditors' report on the EU financial report 2014. Madam President, thank you very much for this report. I think my previous speaker was now very euphoric, and with me many Austrians are not as euphoric as the colleague of the ÖVP. Austria is EU net payer. According to the EU financial report, Austria contributes to the Union budget of around 2.2 percent and recovers 1.2 percent of payments from Brussels. Austria is one of the ten net payers in the EU, we have already heard that. In 2014, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, Austria paid €2,870 million to the EU and received €1,573 million in return flows. Difference: €1 297 million. – This is a very good business, but not for us. There is also little use for the high use of funds in the agricultural sector. The question is: Where does this money flow? I am just excited – I think Mr Rossmann has mentioned this – how payments will affect in the future if a net payer falls away after the Brexit. The largest net recipient in 2014 was Poland, ladies and gentlemen! Most EU funds went to Poland in 2014, followed by France, Spain, Germany and Italy. Austria was 19. ==References== Job. Germany made the highest contribution in 2014 before France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Spain. As I have just referred to, a net payer falls away through the Brexit, and I think that promises nothing good for the future. Then we have to pay more, and I say: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17976	Mr Zanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e17998	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Just a few words about Mr Rossmann, who accuses us of permanent EU bashing: When we talk about the fact that we are net payers, that guild millions of euros are being sent into the EU and we don't know where, you're still talking about a so-called prosperity increase that a US Chamber of Commerce has found with us. But I don't know where this affects, because when you talk to the citizens outside, you can't see a wealth increase at all. The middle class is sucked out, degraded to the largest milk cow in the nation and abused for it, in principle pays the entire state, from the baby to the big one. So I do not really see much of a prosperity increase, Mr President. Please explain this to me a little closer. [[Abg. Rossmann: Did you listen? Did you listen to me?]] If the logical conclusion is that the rich are getting richer and the great are always taking their own place, then I must say that this construction of the EU is also the wrong way for me. Why should it be able to judge a few more and more and more rich and remain the lower level of income? It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to be accused by you of EU-Bashing, because that is not a bashing but legitimate criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18040	Now the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker, has spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18062	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said, so let me make just a few brief comments on the present EU financial report 2014! We have already stressed that this is not a classical performance review, but rather a service provided by the Court of Auditors for the National Council, for the Land Days, for the public, in order to give an overview of the flows of payments between the EU budget and Austria. We also report on important events and developments at EU level that affect Austria. With regard to the data, we are largely referring to data from the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors, Eurostat and the individual Federal Ministries. For a number of reasons relating to the availability of the data at EU level, the 2014 financial report is only now being discussed. This is the course of things, but we are trying to work as quickly as we discussed in the Committee last week. What I can say about all the contributions I have made, I believe, – we debated and discussed this last week in a discussion with the speakers of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – is that the value of the EU financial report for the National Council and for the countryside is actually beyond dispute. In this sense, we will continue to do so, even if it is not daily, but of course we will try to focus even more on what is relevant to you from the point of view of the Austrian Parliament in the future. For example, we could include national co-financing in the EU financial report. I think that this would be an added value for the report in the future. The fact is that we are already in the process of drawing up the EU financial report 2015, so new developments can only be made from the 2016 financial report. The central data has also been mentioned. Austria contributed €2.87 billion in 2014 and 2.2 percent respectively to EU total revenue and received around €1.57 billion of EU expenditure allocated to Member States. Austria was behind the net payer. The net balance fell by around 32,5 percent compared with 2013. The contribution to the EU came to 71 percent of the federal government. The country's share is calculated from the financial balance and is 24.5 percent, and the municipality's share is about 4.4%. The backflows primarily concerned the agricultural fund of €1.2 billion and, to a lesser extent, the two Structural Funds, namely the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, each amounting to around €70 million. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The breakdown of the backflows from the agricultural funds was such that they went to three quarters in three federal states, namely Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Styria, Vienna and Vorarlberg received the least resources. The breakdown of the backflows from the Structural Funds by the Federal Republic of Germany was such that, in turn, Lower Austria received most of the funds, while the Burgenland received 31 percent and Upper Austria 18 percent. No funds from this sector were received in 2014 from Styria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Vienna. From the ESF 42 percent of the return flows went to the AMS, 41 percent to the ministries and 7 percent to the Burgenland. Due to repeated identified shortcomings in the administrative and control system, suspensions of payments by the European Commission have occurred since 2007. We have also made a report on individual decisions on ERDF funding. It noted that there was insufficient or ineffective supervision and lack of control by the administrative authorities, and therefore financial corrections were also made. The resolution is now being put on other legs, in Austria the ÖROK will now be responsible as the administrative authority. For the period 2014 to 2020, Austria is allocated around 317.6 million euros less than in the period from 2007 to 2013, and almost half of the decrease concerns the Regional Development Fund. The level of exploitation is very good in the field of rural development, where it was 96.4 percent in December 2014. It is also good for the Structural Funds and is 95 percent in the ESF area and 63% in the ERDF. We had a debate in the Court of Auditors on the current issues of the Committee with the Austrian member of the European Court of Auditors, Mag. Oskar Herics. You could be fully informed about the work of the European Court of Auditors. I can only say that the Austrian Court of Auditors is very cooperative and very good at working with the European Court of Auditors. In 2016, we accompanied two important audits in Austria, the Austrian management and control system for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and also an economic audit of ERDF investment and corporate support. The report on the Brenner base tunnel was addressed. There is also cooperation with the European Court of Auditors. The European Court of Auditors is examining high-speed trains in Europe, building on our test results. – Mr Hauser, our report on the Brenner Base Tunnel is before the House and will be debated in detail at one of the next meetings of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. In addition to monitoring the European Court of Auditors, it is important to me that there are coordinated audits with other top control authorities and national audit courts of European countries. In 2014, the Austrian Court of Auditors carried out a coordinated audit on Eurofisc, i.e. the network for targeted and faster control of VAT fraud. To this end, we carried out an examination together with Germany and Hungary. On the basis of an agreement of the EU Contact Committee, there is also an audit on national banking supervision for less significant credit institutions, at which the Austrian Court of Auditors. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18138	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-320 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:03:53]] 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the average income of the population as a whole. 1 § 8 para. 4 of the Remuneration Limitation Act, BGBl. I No. 64/1997, by sectors, professional groups and functions for the years 2014 and 2015 (“General Income Report 2016”) (III-327/1507 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18181	Now we're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18209	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The present income report shows us the figures from the years 2014 and 2015. I shall deal with three points which are particularly striking: Real wage losses, income shears and the type of service. It is a fact that the real wage loss for workers is 13 percent. To the income sheath: An blatant income disadvantage is particularly evident in pensioners who have to cope with half of the amount that men receive as an old-age pension. It was also an important step that the minimum pension of €883 was now increased to € 1,000. The report confirms a general income disadvantage for women. What's that about? – On the one hand, this is the sector-specific differences, women are increasingly working in less-paid occupations and so far less in men-dominated areas such as finance, insurance or the energy sector. But it is also because of how the service conditions look. Let us ask ourselves why many young women in particular have to choose or choose part - time service. – They don’t know their children. That is why it was a real and important initiative of the Federal Government to tackle the expansion of childcare facilities in a massive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You need to know that in 2015, only 34 percent of women were active in full-time employment. Yes, there are now some women who work full-time, but then they sometimes have to find that they deserve much less than their colleagues, that is, less than men in the same company in the same function. How could that be? – In the private sector, we know, women earn 22.4 percent less than their male colleagues. On this point, I think that internal wage transparency is an appropriate means to counter this. Ange- In view of the fact that this report gives us, no one in this Chamber can be opposed, even in view of the fact that Austria's economic strength in women is limited to the 22nd century. ==References====External links== – Truly no famous leaf! Let us stay short with some vivid figures. Between workers, a wage shear of 57 percent is clap. There are also part-time relationships, so if someone works only a few weeks or months over the year. Even with fully employed workers, women still earn a third less. We have the income shears with the employees, we have the income shears themselves in the cross section, i.e. when looking at workers, employees and officials in one. There, too, women deserve to say and write 17 percent less. Ladies and gentlemen, this report and these figures show a clear need for action. I am confident that the demand for a minimum wage of €1500 will find broad approval – which is also enshrined in the government programme – and I call on you to plead for internal wage transparency – I am looking for you – so that we can give women an instrument that they can act accordingly in wage negotiations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] These proposals contribute to supporting women during their careers, during their active careers, and to enabling them to achieve equality. But above all, they are a contribution to countering the poverty of women, especially in old age. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18269	The next speaker is Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18290	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, the income report gives a good overview of the current status of income, of developments in the individual categories, but also of the number of employees in each category; and with detailed evaluations, the report has been a clarification of many issues relating to income since 1998. However, it is important to have an in-depth job in order to be able to draw correct conclusions from it. I should like to make a few points. In 2015, we had 4 226,000 employed persons, which means an increase of around 1.5 percent compared to 2014. Unemployed persons reached a mean gross annual income of €26 678 in 2015. The lowest income was recorded at €19 215 with the workers, the highest average income of €53 747 was recorded with the officials. In order to be able to evaluate this spray in a factually correct manner, the report provides detailed information, as already mentioned. He explains, for example, that there are a number of factors that have a positive impact on the level of income of officials. Officials are not only above average academics compared to other groups, but also, on average, considerably older than the members of the other employment groups. They are more rare in part-time employment, and the proportion of non-permanent officials is very low. In my view, this leads to two conclusions: On the one hand, comparison with other groups is often misleading and, on the other hand, shows that: The calculation method chosen in the report – in particular the inclusion of part-time employment and not full-time full-time employment – has a negative impact on average income. According to the report, there were around 846 500 full-time workers in Austria all year round and 2 105 000 full-time workers all year round. This corresponds to a part-time share of 34.5 percent – Mr Greiner has already taken this up accordingly. It should also be noted that the number of part-time jobs has increased sharply in recent years – by around 50 percent from 2004 to 2015. It is also clear that part-time employment is female. Around 81.8% of all year round Part-time workers are female, whereas the proportion of women in full-time work is only 34.5% of all year round. Of course, part-time workers deserve less than full-time workers, and if you calculate income per capita, as in the report, this naturally affects the statistical average income of the groups affected. To conclude that we are really getting poorer, as is shown in the report at first glance, is not comprehensible in my opinion, especially from the point of view that, according to surveys, 85 to 90 percent volunteer in part-time work – and not because they do not get a full-time job. Ladies and gentlemen, the method of calculating average income per capita chosen in the report often gives a distorted picture. Thus, the resulting statement that the salary shears continue to rise in Austria, taking into account all the explanations of this report, is differentiated in this context. I would therefore like to take up the proposal made by the press, which proposes the change from the per capita view to a two-year view on the basis of individual events. This alternative has also been mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report and has provided a much different overall picture, as it also writes “The Press”: “The real wages then rose every year, often also strong. And the comparison of ‘high and low incomes shows that these (...) do not evolve, but grow relatively evenly’’. – So this is a much different view. Ladies and gentlemen, this report is a very comprehensive one, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to its preparation. With a personal request, I would like to conclude: The report shows that despite punctual improvements, women continue to earn less than men. Let us make every effort to ensure that there is justice on this issue too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18342	Mr Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18363	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I don't think the report is so confusing, but it's actually clear and confirms what many workers in Austria feel is that the gap between good-earners and low-earners is massive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Greiner has already mentioned it: The real wage loss for the group of workers amounted to 13 percent in the years 1998 to 2016. This means that inflation is 13 percent higher than the wage increase in this group of workers. On the other hand, the rewarders are those who benefit to a large extent, and it is mainly the officials who have experienced 26 percent increase in income during this period. Even if you honestly take out some one-off effects and special effects, it is simply a fact that the workers and the low-earners or the low-earners are badly affected and have massive income losses and that the server workers simply get more. But now it is not a small group, but it is about 40 percent of Austrian workers affected by it. And then I wonder, Why do you let that happen? – If I look at the ÖVP now, it is clear to me that they have never left much for the employee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] – I am sure you have already left something, as the report shows: A lot of work, little pay you have left! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But where are the employees' representatives at SPÖ? - I don't see her. Why is the SPÖ abandoning a group that is supposed to represent it? – In my opinion, that is really the big question. I have no explanation, but maybe one of the SPÖ mandatars can still explain it today. And what do you do – we have already discussed this in detail today – in addition? . One allows people to enter our country via uncontrolled immigration, which will land and still exert massive pressure on this profession when they get work at all, if they do not land directly in the social system, which in turn must be hard developed by these workers, so that this social pot, which they use, can be filled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, it is permitted that employees from abroad, from nearby EU countries, exert pressure on the Austrian labour market, although we have long called for a sectoral closure of the labour market in order to protect the people here in Austria, the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I look at the income report of our state managers, I see we have the same picture: 74 State managers deserve more than the Federal Chancellor. At Post AG, the board members are the Gagenkaiser with over €1.6 million annual salary – exactly the gentlemen who explain to the small supplier outside that he has to be saved that the post office needs to be locked that his workplace is no longer portable for the company. It's similar with the group. There we have twelve highly-dominated managers, who deserve more than the Federal Chancellor, and four board members with gags of over one million euros. Maybe some of the Carinthians are listening now, because they're just these interconnected board members who just lock up a tourist train with us because they say: We cannot afford to do this, we have several hundred thousand euros of departure in the year, which is no longer portable for our group, we have to lock the train! – With this, 30 jobs are lost again in a structurally weak region; a tourist establishment is destroyed, but the managers register millions of opportunities. I would have a much better proposal: Perhaps one should save one of these boards with a gage of € 1 million, then a little bit would be left, and we could get the two tracks and 30 jobs in our region. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, since it is of course common practice in these groups that a red and a black are always used in the proportion, one would probably have to take two out, otherwise one would have to argue again about whether the black or the red would have to go – so we would even save € 2 million. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Both!]] Conclusion: Dear workers, I am sorry to say the bad message and prophecy to you: As long as these two parties, SPÖ and ÖVP, are in the government, unfortunately nothing will change for you. Probably or fairly safe, the 2018 income report will draw the same picture and a loss of income will occur for you again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18442	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18463	Mr President. Madam President, Mr Kraker! Mr. Zanger, national prosperity is distributed in Austria, not in the EU. Therefore, the EU is not responsible for the income shears that open up in Austria, but Austria itself is responsible for that. Her party was in government responsibility between 2000 and 2007. When I look at the income report and the emerging income shears, I see that this sheer has been rising since 1998, so – and that was also said by Mr Angerer – at the time you were in government responsibility. Don't just wipe that out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Anger:... exactly for this group!]] Now to some of the facts from the income report, some conclusions and a policy guide: Yes, there have been significant real wage losses, for workers, minus 13 percent; for women, it was even minus 18 percent. If you look at the employees – including the contract staff – you can see that there has been a slight plus; with the officials – these have already been mentioned – it was plus 26 percent. Even if one takes into account, Mr. Singer, that the age structure of officials is different and that the academic share is greater: A plus of 26 percent is not achieved in this way. You have to explain that to me. Let us now look at the distribution of incomes, i.e. the individual incomes, first at the lowest incomes of 10 percent of workers: Income losses gross real of 35 percent! It's a little less for women, because it's only minus 16 percent, and for men it's minus 54 percent. That's shocking. When we look at the income center, so in that area where 50 percent more and 50 percent less earn, the loss is still 4 percent. Only the top 10 percent show a profit of plus 4 percent. Now, if we return to the lowest income and take the lower 25 percent, that is, the 25 percent with the lowest income, it still looks very sad: Men and women have a total minus of 19 percent, women a minus of 7 percent, men a minus of 26 percent. In fact, these are shocking results. That's why you're wondering, of course: What are the causes of this? I would like to say in a change of a very famous saying by Bill Clinton in the 1992 election campaign: It's the labour market, stupid! – It is the labour market! Let us take a look at what is happening in the labour market! – Well, that's not just the immigrants! [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Beautiful Jaaa! But now be honest!]] These are not just the immigrants from the East. [[Abg. Beautiful: But now I'm excited! Now I'm excited, Rossmann!]] . I will explain this to you, Mr Hübner. Wait a little bit! [[Abg. Honey: I just said I was excited!]] The main focus is the increasingly unstable employment relationship with rising underage unemployment on the one hand and part-time employment on the other. [[Abg. Cute: And this has nothing to do with the... labour market?]] Now, when Mr Singer comes up here and says that part-time work is something that is done voluntarily to 90 percent, I have to say: That's not true in this form! Some 60 percent of those working part-time would like to work differently, but they cannot do it because they have other obligations, whether it be childcare or care, whether due to lack of childcare facilities or the like. - That's how it looks! Part-time employment is not 90 percent voluntary, but is one of the main causes. [[Abg. Loacker shakes the head.]] – Yes, just shake your head, Mr. Loacker! I know you do not want to take note of these facts. [[Abg. Loacker: Every fourth would like to work less, Mr Rossmann!]] That's how it looks, it's the labour market! The income report clearly shows: If there were a continuous employment relationship and these continued for only two years, these workers would achieve an increase in income – not a reduction in income. This is probably the clear proof, I would say, that these labour relations on the labour market are the central cause of the separation of income relations in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The conclusion that can and must be drawn from it: Workers, particularly low-income workers, particularly those who are particularly affected by unstable and short-term employment, have been losing income and thus future prospects for years, and this is also one of the main reasons for the further spread of legal populism in our country and in other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This makes it quite clear that this income report is a political task for us, which is: [[Abg. Peter Worm:... the liberal model!]] We must devote much more attention to labour market conditions, because this is one of the central causes, but we must also combat this inequality by other means. [[Abg. Steinbichler: You're just studying, you don't want to work!]] A previous speaker has already pointed out that the minimum wage would be an instrument. – Yes, of course, but the 1,500 € are, of course, only one entry-level drug. In fact, we have to reach €1 700 if we want to do something material in this area. [[Abg. Lugar: 2,000! Or 3,000! Or even 5,000!]] – Yes, yes – 1,700 €. Look Mr Lugar, once again, how positive the experience in Germany was when the minimum wage was introduced there! That is to say, we really have to accept this income scarcity in order to allow even those people a better, a good life, which is not possible today due to their income situation. Finally, let me take a look at what it would be like if the lower 20 percent of the income earners had those increases that now have the upper 20 percent of the income earners: There is a study by the International Monetary Fund, which states that real wage increases in the top 20 percent, i.e. 20 percent of the best-earners, have a negative effect on gross domestic product and thus on tax revenue, whereas this is the lower 20 percent. We are now transferring the results of this study and the multipliers to the Austrian situation, so it turns out that between 2010 and 2015 with a reverse of the increases from top to bottom in gross domestic product, we should not have taken a minimum of € 12.3 billion, but only one of €2.5 billion. What would that mean for tax revenue? – This would mean, for tax revenues in our country, that they would have increased by €4 billion in this period. 4 billion €, that's not nothing! This shows what one can do with an income policy that is increasingly turning to lower incomes. This is the political task to be fulfilled. Thank you very much, Madam President Kraker, for this report, and many thanks also to Statistics Austria, which has contributed significantly to this report. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18647	Next word: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18668	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! The income report provides us with a good overview of the problem areas that we urgently need to address in the field of labour market policy. But there are already places in this report – and I believe that this has been seen in the previous speeches – which can be very misleading. On the one hand, the report also offers me, as a feminist off the left mainstream, a good basis for explaining better what is meant by the Gender Pay Gap, where it comes from, what are really the reasons for this – if you already have a good data situation, you can explain this problem better – but on the other hand it also shows relatively strongly that it is about part-time problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] However, the published report also sent a graphic that appears to show an enormous real wage loss of the lowest 10 percent. However, this graphics was misleading and serves most of all for class combat slogans, as Mr Rossmann has just shown. In my opinion, these data show, in particular, a statistical effect, which has been consciously or unconsciously misrepresented or misinterpreted by the increasing part-time employment of politicians and media. When you look at the facts, the report also shows: There have never been so many people in Austria, never so many women in employment. However, this is done mainly in part-time work, and therefore, of course, we automatically have a statistical shift, because the lower 10 percent are therefore getting less and less because they are mainly part-time. So not “It’s the labour market, stupid!” but: It's the statistics, stupid! – if you already bring this as an example. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What we, politics, should answer, is, on the one hand, what are the reasons for part-time work and, on the other hand, what is the consequences for the rest of life. This is also very well seen in this report: Women therefore deserve less than men – and this is also the gender pay Gap – because they work part-time and are in atypical employment conditions. However, the report also shows that part-time employment has a very strong long-term effect, because women who have worked part-time, of course, also earn less than their male colleagues, who had training opportunities and increases at the same time, because they had been working full-time for a longer time. But there are other reasons, namely those which are in themselves the reasons for part-time work – this is also illustrated in this report –: 40 percent of women have indicated that they work part-time with their children or family members due to care obligations, while 38 percent of part-time men have indicated that they do so because of school or vocational training. That is, those men, even if they are less, who work part-time, after that, when they are back in full-time work, have even more opportunities to earn more because they have been able to invest these times in continuing training. This actually makes the problem even worse. What we have to do is finally to change the framework conditions on the one hand, that it is no longer necessary to work involuntarily part-time, which is often the case in women, even though previous speakers have already claimed otherwise, and on the other hand to change the framework conditions so that we do not further promote part-time work. Mr Rossmann said earlier that the problem of income in Austria is employment. . We must look at the fact that we are finally abolishing the incentives, including fiscal measures, which we set for part-time work or for the low-paid sector, because this is even stronger. This includes the single wage reduction, the negative tax or the loss of the employee's contribution to unemployment insurance at lower incomes. Moreover, this is not only something we are saying NEOS, but also the European Commission has stated this in its report on equality between women and men in the labour market as the main point for the lower wages of women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] That is what is subsumed there under the term Financial Disincentives. There is no reason, in principle, to defuse part-time work or to want to make it politically impossible. But what is already a problem is that if you ignore the long-term consequences, you create additional framework conditions that actually lead to more women working part-time, and then complain afterwards: Oh, we never gave women the chance that they would work full time and that then they would earn as much as their male colleagues! After that, you wonder and demand a minimum wage as an entry-level drug. That's where you really pick up the horse from behind, in an absurd way. Then, in retrospect, say: Oh, that's just the entry-level drug, we'll just change to Crystal Meth with €1,700!, can't be the solution either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18745	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18766	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about this general income report, which the Court of Auditors has presented together with Statistics Austria. To sum up, there is not much new to be shed light on, because the facts that are being shown are: Have been on the table for a long time. We have been dealing with these issues for a long time, but it has unfortunately changed relatively little. I have already made the proposal in the Committee that it might be better if this General Income Report, which is extremely important as a basis for our work, were to be part of the Social Report, because the social report also provides a better light on the social aspect. We know that the Court of Auditors does not draw up this report itself, but that the data come from Statistics Austria and the report is presented by the Court of Auditors in order to be dealt with in Parliament. This has also been mentioned in the Committee as an argument why the two reports should not be merged, but this argument is not sustainable, because if this income report were part of the social report, it would also be Parliament and would be dealt with here too. My previous speakers have already mentioned a number of issues that appear to be problematic. In particular, women's salaries are still worse. Special attention must be paid to this, and there is a need for many additional support measures and accompanying measures for women, especially with regard to interruptions due to child rearing times. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the quota is not a solution. The much praised, much quoted, much-loved quota from parts of this house is not a solution, because it does not solve the problem of women at breaks in working life. Many examples also confirm that this does not make sense and does not bring a quota. What the report lacks is a discussion of the effects of the unlimited activity of workers from countries with low wage levels. It has already been mentioned: As a result of the EU's opening-up, many people have come to the Austrian labour market, which, of course, also reduces wages and leads to problems. Unfortunately, this problem is not addressed in this general income report, nor is it addressed. The next item on the agenda is the reform of the Court of Auditors. The question is: How can the Court of Auditors be relieved? . We know that the Court's financial resources are very small, as are the human resources. The capacity limits have already been reached, the core tasks can hardly be fulfilled, and that is why the Court of Auditors should be relieved of additional tasks. As has been said, we will also come to the next item on the agenda. However, in the area now under consideration, I think that there is also a possibility to discharge the Court of Auditors, and this should also be included in the discussion, namely that the General Income Report is no longer covered by the Court of Auditors' duties and therefore has more capacity for its core tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18817	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18839	Mr President. Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Much has already been said about the income report. First of all, I should like to thank you very much for the really great preparation of this report – in the case of Statistics Austria as well as in the Court of Auditors. What is new is that we have not received a CD this time, but that this is really transparent on the Court of Auditors' homepage in a PDF file. This should continue to serve the transparency of incomes in the future – thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the income reports have been working on this House for 17 years. It turns out that many of the measures have been taken, but we do not lead where we actually want to go. We want to close these income scarcityes between women and men, and it does not help at all if populist yelling that nothing has happened, but we all have to go party-independent here in the House at the heart of this problem. Many jobs and working hours have changed. I would just like to remind you of the liberalisation of shop opening times. Mr Anger has not mentioned this before, he has only focused on populism, but that has also decided on the black and blue coalition here in this House in 2006. You have probably forgotten that, but it has also contributed to a precarious division of work, namely in the women's sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] If we look at the groups, and there is also a median, a medium gross income, in the comparison of the federal states – and this is also mentioned gratefully in this report – then we see that there is still a massive East-West gap. In Lower Austria, the same worker earns €29 000 gross, in Tyrol saying and writing €24 000. There's a big sheer, and we also know why: Where there are industrial zones where there are normal jobs, where trade unions negotiate wages, it is still quite a deal. There, however, there are precarious working conditions in the gastronomy, in hotel establishments, where there are no representations, there are, of course, minimum wages far below the limit, and unfortunately, this concerns God always the same, namely the ladies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] Ladies and gentlemen, it will be our responsibility to work together here in the future to resolve this gap across parties. You can't blame the government on it alone. The government has already decided on a number of points, I would just like to remind you of a few: the minimum pension, even the tax reform, has not mentioned anyone who, of course, also helps; at the same time, it will also be discussed about flexible working time and last but not least about a so-called minimum wage. If you listen here today: 1 500 € are too little, we go right to 1 700 €!, then, I have to tell you, populism is in the foreground again; you also have to be able to achieve this. [[Abg. Brosz: That's what the core called for! demand core, public rereadable! Union...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] The industry also shows that this is the case: Interestingly, there is the slightest difference between women and men. But where it does not work, it is in all part-time businesses, where trade is at home. It is also interesting to note that, as a result of the presentation of this report last week, a trading group went straight ahead of the press and said: We increase the minimum wage of all our employees! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] So that it can work, we know. One thing to conclude: Mr. Angerer, I appreciate you as colleagues from Carinthia, but today you have seen that you completely demolded your mask. If you make yourself here and speak of Proporz, while the Freedom Party in Carinthia is against the abolition of the Propor, I never know where you come from. [[Abg. Anger:... small difference..., but I like to explain it to you!]] Last, but not least for management: I would just like to remind you that the most expensive manager who left a billion tomb in Carinthia was also ordered by the FPÖ, namely Mrs Manegold. We still have these construction sites together today, and you stand out here and say the proportion is to blame. – Yes, please, invitation to consent in Carinthia, and then we will clear it away!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18934	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e18955	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Very briefly to my previous speaker: It must be rejected that women's employment in some form has to do with a black and blue government. It's on the hair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Of course, it always depends on how the economic situation is, how it develops; so it would be fatal if that had an impact in this constellation. To the income report itself, I would like to forward the following: On Saturday, 4th. March, is the so-called Equal Pay Day. You all know this, you know it: Until this day, the women in Austria have worked free of charge. They have no cent, no euro for their performance, if you want to define it in this form. That's a fact. The Court of Auditors' report also confirms that women's incomes have not really improved, actually not at all. It has already been said: For 17 years, the Court of Auditors' income report has been available, and at that time, women's median income has only increased from 60.6 to 61.6 per cent – a narrow per cent, and that's incredible. We can continue to regret this and get excited about it every time a report comes. Finally, it does not help us, and there is also the solution we want, not, that is, the social partners have to start, there is a need for collective bargaining, especially in the services companies in which most women work. It can't be that working with man and for man is paid worse than working on the machine and on the device. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz.]] This is, I believe, a common concern that we have, and especially in view of the differences in income. Let's look at this: in 2004, the income of women working full-time throughout the year was 77.5% of average male income and 82.7% in 2015. There was a slight increase, but only 5.2 percent. Finally, ladies and gentlemen – and we know this from the communities in which we are all at home, from the villages –: 47 percent of self-employed workers in 2015 and 41 percent of self-employed workers are women. That is to say, we women account for almost 50 percent of the economy in this country. We shape this country with our work, with our intellect, with our ability, with our social gift, and that must also be its value have been falling in income. It cannot be that women do not get along with this income, but this is the case at present – we are talking about the poverty trap – and this is also clearly shown in the Court of Auditors' report. We have to get active here, and – my previous speaker has already mentioned it – the minimum wage of €1500 – I hope that this works until June – is probably only the beginning. This must be possible, some businesses have already been looking after, and several metalworking companies have already introduced a minimum wage of even €1600. It is feasible, it will have to be feasible, and I very much hope that the next Court of Auditors report, Madam President, is one that we can say: Yeah, we did it! I'm just afraid we'll have to make a lot of speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19018	Next, Mrs Lintl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19040	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned many numbers, I would like to address how people feel about it. They say that earlier, because of a fixed work, one could build a life, plan a life. One could create a family, one could build a house or buy an apartment. There has been a predictable material security for years and decades. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, especially in the case of lower incomes. Everything deserved goes up for the daily cost of living, and saving something beyond that is no longer possible. Only recently the coalition presented the x-ten restart for Austria with a work programme. Already in the preamble, one wants to “deliver our children to a country that has expanded its prosperity and is one of the world’s leaders in the future industries” – but of which, ladies and gentlemen, we are far away, as the present income report clearly shows us, namely scandalous: Real income has been falling since 1998, which is now almost 20 years. Most of these are the weakest in our society. The income of 10 percent with the lowest income fell by 35 percent. Who, I ask you, can you afford anything else? They are responsible for the rapid opening of the Austrian labour market and of the ÖVP. This now affects not only the lowest levels of income, but also the middle levels of income, so a sectoral closure of the labour market is necessary to protect Austrian workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, the state budget suffers from uncontrolled migration. Payments for demand-oriented minimum security and unemployment benefit are increasing at an insane rate. Further immigration into our social system must be prevented. To be diligent and diligent in Austria harms. Many of those wishing to have an additional income in addition to their main employment or need such an income, In the case of an increase in social security contributions and taxes, the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the harmonization of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States is based on the principle of Trust almost completely ended. Another reason for the precarious income situation of Austrians is the rise in atypical working conditions, which we have already heard several times. Part-time work and minor employment lead to income losses, but we must not ignore that it is not possible for many companies to offer a full-time job without a sustainable cost reduction. A rather medieval matter is the pay gap between men and women, as clearly shown in the income report. This does not change a senseless gender policy, but only a remuneration policy based on performance. The service also includes childcare and family care, and this is mainly done by women. It is a long-standing demand from our group that this valuable benefit be rewarded for family and society, that it be recognized and, above all, that it be included in the pension system, that at least in old age women face more justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – For men it is true anyway! How the new government programme affects the income development of Austrians will show us the next income report. We do not have much opportunity to hope so far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19113	As the next speaker, Madam President, Mr Kraker spoke. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, with the presentation of the income report, fulfils a legal obligation and pursues a legal order which it receives through the Remuneration Restriction Act. We have the task of providing every two years a report on the average income of the entire population, separated by sectors, professional groups and functions; we also separate this for women and men. The report shall be sent to the National Council, the Federal Council and the Landstags on the basis of the legal basis. The Court of Auditors shall draw up this report in cooperation with Statistics Austria. There is a very detailed evaluation; in addition to income and wage tax data, Statistics Austria mainly uses the microcensus data collected. This report shows the data from 2015. The report creates transparency about the current annual income of the self-employed, the self-employed and, above all, pensioners. In my view, the data and analyses prepared in these different respects provide important information. We have redesigned an overview sheet so that there is a first overview of selected content, and the summary also shows individual factors for income development. The aim of the Court of Auditors was to identify key factors for income development and existing income differences in this report. We provide you, the National Council, with objective information, and I attach importance to it, which is based on statistical facts and facts. All the suggestions in the Court of Auditors' deliberations, so to speak, as to how the report could be developed, we will be involved in the drafting of the report, as well as concerns. One thing we will make quite certain: the presentation of the regional distribution of parttime work; that is, as I believe, a suggestion that we can take up. In this sense, the income report is already an extensive source of data and information for the entire National Council and not just for the Court of Auditors. We have identified various factors, the report is in no way one-sided; we can read out various factors for how we come to a certain income level in Austria. What are the facts? – In 2015, around 4.2 million people were self-employed. This figure has increased by a total of 25.1 percent since 1998. There was a stronger increase in women, by 33.64 percent, in men, there was an increase of 18.24 percent. The proportion of women employed was 47.3 percent. Unemployment has increased by 33 per cent over the same period. What is the average gross annual income? – The median income was €26 678 in Austria in 2015. If one considers only full-time workers all year round, the average gross annual income increases to €39,812. On income development: We have presented several facts, including the comparison with 1998, the first year of the report, from which there is a uniform database, and we see that income shears are split, which is a fact. The 10 percent with the highest incomes had been inflation-adjusted from 1998 to 2015 with an increase of 4.3 per cent, with 10 per cent with the lowest incomes falling by 35 per cent; average incomes fell by 3.5 per cent over the same period. Second fact: The trend in the incomes of workers decreased sharply between 1998 and 2015 and the median income in 2015 was only more than 87 percent of the comparative value of 1998 and inflation adjusted. The incomes of employees and officials – they have already been discussed that there are effects – increased over the same period. Of course, inflation-adjusted income growth is higher if one considers full-time workers; this applies to women and men, but the income of full-time women in 2015 was significantly lower than that of men, i.e. 83 percent. Considering all self-employed persons, women's income is 62 percent of men's median income, 52% of men's average income, and pensioners' income was 60 percent of the pensioners' income. Another fact: The situation improves in stable employment conditions. If you have been employed for at least five years throughout the year, there is an income increase of around 9 percent, including inflation-adjusted, which is 43 percent of the unemployed. Next fact: It is striking that the number of atypical employees between 2013 and 2015 has increased more than the number of self-employed workers, at 4.8 percent disproportionately. Atypical employment is predominantly female: 61 percent of female self-employed Atypically employed persons were employed, with a total female share of 70 percent in atypical employment relations. This group of employees achieved a mean gross annual income of €12 483, but that is also an employment group in which women earn more than men, namely women €13 860 and men €8 714. In particular, it should be pointed out – and this is seen when reading the report carefully – that the part-time workers' group is very inhomogeneous. The most common reason for part-time work is the care of children and adults in need of care, followed by education and training of 17 percent. Because of illness or other reasons, only a few parttime jobs are employed. For women, care obligations are the main reason for part-time work, 41 percent have indicated this as the reason for the reduction in weekly working time, and for men this is 5 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] This is the area of self-employed persons: There are very large differences in income between women and men, especially in individual sectors. The differences in income between men and women in the field of health and social affairs are particularly striking. There, men's income of 67,935 € is by far the highest, exclusively self-employed women in this area to reach 8 314 € and only 12 percent of the average male income; this has to do with the gender structure in this sector. In the case of pensioners, the income disadvantage of women continues. At 15 €377 in the mean of over half of what men receive in old age pension, women of an old age pension had to come out with a little more than half of the old age pension. Their average annual income is €25,828. It is also a fact that the trend in income from pensions was above that of the inflation rate. In summary, I should like to repeat and really like to point out that the Court of Auditors' income report, I think, is relevant to the entire National Council. It is relevant to the areas of labour market policy, social policy, education policy, family policy and equality policy. That's why I'm inviting you: On the basis of the income report, let us jointly reflect on those factors that can lead to an income from work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19223	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19244	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Thank you for the report that provides a good basis for work! I have decided not to throw the numbers around me now – we have already had this in the last hour – but to address some essential points. I would particularly like to talk about the self-employed. If we look at the differences, we note that officials in Austria earn about four times as much as the self-employed. This is also a large group of people, that is, more than 300,000 people. Let's take a look at this in detail: We speak in the median of €11 388 a year. These self-employed deserve this, and then again there is a great difference between men and women. We have also seen this with all other groups of persons, but that is quite serious because these €11 388 are essentially minimum security levels. For women, €7,837 come out, men about double. That's where you're wondering: How can you live by this money? It must also be noted that in this area of income income tax no longer applies in de facto. In other words, the social security contributions are the essential issue and also the essential load factor – stress factor is always relative, because social security also offers a counter-performance. However, these payments will produce hundreds of thousands of new minimum pensioners in the future, and with the current legal situation, these minimum pensioners will in the future be denied more or less pension, because any compensation that comes will be cancelled if you want to earn something in the pension. That is why the need for reform is very serious from our point of view in the area of the SVA. We wonder why you need 36 health insurance in Austria. We wonder why you need five pension insurances. We wonder why you need four accident insurances. We believe that a number of redundancies could be made if one introduced a social security institution for all. Now some will say, probably from conservative rows: Well, you need the competition! . I would remind you, however, that in the United States, where this competition takes place, about one third of the expenses of these health insurance companies for television advertising and advertising are spent. No official in the world can be so inefficient! That's why I'd mean: A social insurance institution is enough. There is also a group of self-employed people, those of the artists, where in the past they have created a structure for a grant to social security contributions. This social security fund for artists is not without it, because it amounts to up to €1 722 grant to social security contributions. This is fed out of satellite receiver charge, cable connection charge et cetera. Perhaps we could think of having the robot charges paid in the future – I say this plausibly now – and thus provide some support for small-income self-employed people. The second point is the Chamber of Commerce, since I do not want to go into detail: It is clear, however, that in the case of such income structures, the contributions to the Chamber of Commerce are much more serious than those for employees and workers to the Chamber of Labour, because they deserve almost double. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19281	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19302	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Madam President, you have disappointed me because you have read so uncommented. Yes, the income of the lower decile has fallen by 35 percent. I mean, what you already have to say about cleanliness, is that in this period of time you have used, the proportion of part-time workers has increased significantly and that, therefore, in the lower Decil, much more part-time than at the time of comparison. Of course, then the in- Come on. It has not been expected to be full-time equivalents, and this must be said cleanly. I have had tears in my eyes when Professor Rossmann was standing here and told us that so many people would like to work more and unfortunately not be allowed to do so because the evil bosses don't let them. In fact, it is: The WIFO published a study five days ago, according to which 9 percent of Austrians would like to work more, but 20 percent of Austrians would like to work less. Anyone who once worked in the economy – in an employee relationship and perhaps not in a board, in social security or as an official – knows that you get into situations where you might be working a little more or a little less depending on how the family situation is, whether you are building a house or whether you are studying next to your profession. There is a desire to change working time, and not always does the professional situation allow it. It would be fair to say that. The income report and the social report to be debated tomorrow shed light on similar issues, but differ significantly in some figures. For example, the Social Report says that there are 340 000 minor employees, and the income report speaks of 250 000. In any case, both reports say: The number of minor employees is increasing considerably, which is generally the case in parttime. What is striking is a statistical accumulation of the income of small employees around €400, i.e. around the maximum limit of lowliness. This already shows that people are kept in lowliness of mind because they know: If I earn a few more euros, then the service relationship is fully insured, and then, for example, social benefits are completely lost. This is crucial, for example, for unemployed people and emergency workers who are slightly deserving of it, but are not allowed to earn € 1 more. We need more flexible systems so that people are not held in these minor service conditions but have an incentive to work more and get back into full employment. What is confirmed by the income report is a problem of declining pension levels. The apologists of the secure pension system always dispute this, but the income report shows that the new pensions are 19 percent lower than in the previous year – please, from 2014 to 2015 at 19 percent! Well, the social report says it's only 5 percent. But even if the new pensions are 5 percent lower than a year before, one sees that the first pillar in its power leaves massively behind. What we really want is that people of old are well protected. The Austrians want to retire early, and there we have a target conflict, because the result cannot be that we make even more debt or increase the contributions even further. The Social Minister and the Federal Government are closing their eyes to a problem that will be increasing in the next few years because the replacement rates are going back because pensions are going to fall and because we are going to be heading towards an poverty of old age. That's why you have to tell people honestly: If we want to maintain the level of care in old age, we must also work longer for part of the additional life span, part of what we live around, and then we also expect to maintain the level of pensions. Then we don't have to worry about the poverty of old age either. But if we lie to the people and tell them it's not a problem, it's all great, then we're going to do something for them. Before this discussion, the government closes its eyes. There's nothing to lose. In the end, however, the losers will not only be the reds, not just the SPÖ, but losers will be the entire population.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19352	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19374	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The labour market is on the move. According to the income report, we have record employment. However, this record employment of over 4.2 million people is also facing record unemployment; You mentioned it. The income shear between women and men remains open. Women earn 38 percent less than men with average income. In the public sector, where politics can intervene, in the case of female officials, the difference in the previous year was much lower. There, women earned 95 percent of male colleagues' income. That is why every incentive to improve something in this direction is also to be welcomed, of course, by our Federal Chancellor's core in the field of supervisory councils. An imbalance in income is also age-specific, and the biggest discrepancy is in the 30 to 39-year-olds. The cause, of course, is the proportion of part-time workers. Over 57 percent of women in this age group are part-time. I would like to thank the authors of the report because everything is very well known and very detailed. I was particularly impressed by a table which shows the proportion of women working part-time voluntarily and involuntarily. This table shows that the reason for part-time work is 33 percent childcare and old-age care. It is not listed where the focus is, but it is certainly involuntary. Its own disease is mentioned only by 3 per cent as the reason for part-time employment. There are certainly different reasons for part-time employment, but one thing is obvious: The compatibility of work and family is not sufficient in the case of full-time employment. It is very often forgotten that part-time employment, of course, is also an essential contribution to poverty in old age. Part-time employment is not always voluntary, because very, very many businesses and companies do not employ full-time, and women in particular are very often unable to do well with part-time income. That means: My conclusion is different from that expressed here by Mr Lintl, because childcare in such facilities is, of course, an essential prerequisite for professional activity. The child's day care statistics of Statistics Austria last year show exactly where the shoe is pressing. There is a good development, on average, a quarter of all children under three years of age are in day care homes. There are also local differences. In Vienna we have a quota of over 45 percent, but in the federal states there is very often only morning care. An extension of child care offers is therefore a command of the hour. This is, of course, an essential prerequisite for children and families and for women's income opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19419	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19440	Mr President. Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unlike Mr Loacker, we are very satisfied with the material you have provided us with in the income report. It is comprehensive, it is instructive, and we also believe that this material is important not only for the members of the Court of Auditors, but also for every representative of the House, for whom it is just an obligation, because, because of this material, the right political conclusions have to be drawn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has also been mentioned several times by you today: Work must pay off! You can turn this number material and turn, as you want, fact is simple that today, even with full employment, incomes are not enough to come out. In the future, it must be our goal that someone who has a full - time job should also get out with his income. If we do not achieve this, we have done something wrong in politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, you repeatedly demand that the political debate be conducted honestly and fairly. Please note, however, that the Freedom Party made a fresh start in 2004 that all those who did not make a liberal policy and did not make sure that incomes were sufficient to come apart from the Freedom Party. Under Heinz-Christian Strache we started a complete new beginning in Knittelfeld in 2004, and our predecessors – except Barbara Rosenkranz and Reinhard Bösch, who are still sitting in Parliament now – have moved to the BZÖ. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is therefore possible to establish a flat-rate: It is true that all those who then earned money in politics went to the BZÖ, and all those who volunteered for the ideas of freedom, remained with the Freedom Party, the Sleeves and the re-start of the Freedom Party, which has been very successful, in 2004. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It also makes no use of you repeatedly coming to the speaker's desk and saying: You have as a Freedom Party...! - We don't have it at all! We've made a restart. We know where we stand. We're on the side of the workers, we're on the side of the employees. We are the party that claims to be the social home party, and it says that work has to pay off. That's where we can be calculated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the legal populism addressed by Mr Rossmann – according to the motto: Mr Rossmann, we are the party, which will not tire out, here in the House, to ensure that work is worthwhile again in the future and that income is sufficient. We are working for a minimum wage. We are committed to the fair adjustment of the care allowance. We are committed to a pensioner price index, which is always rejected by you in the House. We have long called for the abolition of cold progression, because it cannot be that if you get a wage increase and thus get to the next higher level of taxation, the Minister of Finance really reclaims this increase in wages. That is why we are calling for the abolition of cold progression now and now, and not first, as is the case with the Government is planning, with a total inflation of 5 percent and the whole thing only from 2019, which is much too late. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19519	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19540	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Exciting debate: Figures, data, facts are on the table, but are completely different and argued. You can see different directions. For me, the coronation was the speech of Mr. Hauser: You have said quite openly now that there has been a new beginning on the part of the Freedom Party, and now from your point of view everything is happy-peppi. They said how great they are for the little man and for the workers. – But in reality, that is not true. Let's just go through what has been the last decisions in the past! There should really be a fight for direction, a wing struggle within the Freedom Party between a neoliberal wing and another – I don't know what area you would be assigned to. [[Abg. Schimanek: There is no dispute with us!]] If we only briefly pass the last legislative decisions, let us look at how the Freedom Party has voted wage and social dumping fight law – against the voices of the liberals; tax relief – against the voices of the liberals. [[Abg. Deimek: Go, Philip,...!]] That's all facts! Bank levy – against the votes of the liberals. We could continue this list. From the point of view of the liberals, the millionaires' levy is a bit horrendous. All of these are concrete voting behaviour of the Freedom Party. You got it in your hand! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] These are not measures that really help people in Austria to make more money. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Matznetter.]] Col. Themessl then has the idea – the crowning was on his side – he says: Let's stop the collective agreements! Then it said: The GPA should not interfere at all and not be involved in the economy, for the people to fight! – That’s all concrete data! I do not know how you would estimate colleagues Haimbuchner, you know the examples where he said: In reality, we could cut the minimum pensions, which is – as it was said – “must be the truth”. As a publisher, he says very openly what he really thinks. [[Abg. Deimek: He didn't write that himself! Do you believe what you're telling? That's so much untruth!]] These are the examples where the liberals really expose themselves. We don't have to go into the past, but a restart, a socially just restart definitely looks different. Perhaps there is the possibility – even at the next Federal Congress – to talk openly about it. But neoliberal politics has really kept in place in the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Do you believe that yourself? That's pathetic what you're telling! Untruth!]] I would ask you to hold the debates within your own party. And I really can invite all the political groups to do so – I say this very self-critically towards my own group –: We need to do more! The fire that burns enthusiasm for this area. We need to be significantly better, especially when it comes to small incomes. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] We have put in place numerous measures. The income scarcity between men and women has already been mentioned, as we need to get better. Unfortunately, this is not possible in Parliament. [[Abg. Schimanek: You have long lost credibility with the voters!]] - The woman's spokesman just complained. But of the complaints, Mrs Colleague, the complaints alone will not change at all. It can't be that women still earn less for the same performance. These are political measures that we must put in place. I should like to invite you to do so and also to discuss first and foremost the issue of direction within the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19667	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. [[Subsequent calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the carnival is over! Can we return to reality?- Oh, my God! Please, Mr Mayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19694	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a model example of how Philip Kucher couldn't have been able to counter it, how freedom-free child-moving is happening here – obviously already in advance of what comes to the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. That's what they say: We do all of this away, 2004 was the big end! [[Abg. Schimanek: Now you're still starting!]] We had nothing with grass, nothing with bowl on the hat, we have with all...! [[Abg. Singer: Is it true, you still don't know?]] It's none of our business. All of this was the evil old Haider party, none of this matters to us! The same applies to measures in the area of social deterioration, which have led to the fact that we have to discuss this today – which everyone is rightly discussing – that we need to make changes here. It is precisely these things that you have decided in times of high-economy, full employment. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Who is the government? What government? Which German chancellor?]] There you were part of those who have undermined the rights of workers who have undermined the pension scheme, which – essentially – simply thought: [[Abg. Schimanek: But you're in government now!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Now we're on the trough, now we're taking our part! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The Social Democracy is sitting on the trough!]] They were those who demonstratedly at the time when you had the opportunity to improve things, worsened them, and served yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] And now you're cleaning up and saying, 2004 is the big line of separation, that is, nothing but knowing exactly what's going on with you when you can talk about things in detail. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is important – and I disagree with Mr Loacker, although he meant it differently –: Madam President, this report is a good report. He is, in fact, one – I am right for colleague Hauser – who belongs to all the committees. It is indeed a fact-based material with which one can work, be it in the field of education, social, health policy. That's what you're supposed to do. You're supposed to do that. But what you, as the main responsibility for having social deterioration in many areas, are showing here, namely to still blame others, this is a master's achievement. [[towards FPÖ]] You should be ashamed of that, and that's all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19832	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19860	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers there at the top of the gallery and in front of the televisions! Actually, I want to join where my previous speaker has stopped. You really have to be ashamed of that. We are discussing one of the most important chapters, namely the general income report, and then there is nothing but debt allocations back to the last millennium. It's embarrassing! We should overcome ourselves with good proposals as to how we do better, instead of making debt allocations, and give answers to those citizens who have earned it and here a picture of what the future looks like. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Which party were you with in time?]] My dear colleague, your highly spiritual question has answered time. I am no longer with the system defenders, but I have changed the system because I knew that this system harms citizens. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen. There's no construction site at all, that a mason party throws a house and then separates it and says: That wasn't us! This is the result of the work of the last governments: [[pointing to the table before]] Employees: minus 16 percent, employees: constant, officials: plus 17 percent. - Someone's responsible for this. And exactly this purchasing power, which is missing here, is missing our company, lacks the regional economy – that is the imbalance. Mr Rossmann! That was at all the first thesis of a Green Member, who says that prosperity is being done in Austria, that has nothing to do with the EU and the international economy. - Wonderful! Today we have heard the saying: There are no open borders and a social state. It's known to be the companies that make the music. These are facts. Even though it has been said today about what the trade union did not prevent everything – let us see what influence the trade union has when a group decides something! She's usually going to be very, very small. This proved to us a famous TV station in Austria. I can give an example, again from the Group Report 2017: The ketchup manufacturer Heinz was bought by the Group Kraft Foods – minus 8,000 jobs over the next ten months. Ladies and gentlemen, where was the union? Where were those who said: We stand for these 8,000 people! – These are the facts. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We should take seriously the efforts of the Court of Auditors and the figures of the Austrian statistics which support this. I think that if we in this House discuss the eco electricity law, Mr Rossmann, that is the national side. And if we have to experience, like Asian owners of large Austrian companies – I say: FACC – then plan the regional supply of hack cuttings, plan off and heat with cheap electricity, import current or gas, then this is the realistic side. Here, when we make ourselves up here and defend ourselves, how super everything is going and how everything is in our own hands, we have to know who really pulls the threads on these results that then come. And that's where the government has to intervene. This is the task of politics. The task of politics is to control, and if such a thing happens, it does not control. And we have social policy. Where is social policy, balance? That is why we need to speak clearly about group taxation, which leaves all the rear doors open so that profits can be postponed. Or: Where do the more than €400 million of Borealis profits go? - To Dubai. That is why it is important to take action, to create balance, to control, to co-tax. That is why we have a very clear approach, especially in this field: Globalisation serves the corporations, regionalization, Mr. Rossmann – now I'm back with you – serves the human being. That is why it is important to put people at the centre of all our decisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19918	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19940	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Thank you for this extensive numbering material. This is extremely important and interesting, and I believe that we should all take a close look at it. Of course, as we have seen, the interpretation has gone through with ideology. The left side interprets above all the women's sector as if it were so bad for women and very terrible. It is best to put all children in the kindergarten immediately, to tear families apart for life and to provide the children through the state. But you can interpret this quite differently, because you can say: There is an order to do something for the families, especially for the working mothers and the single mothers, by increasing pensions for mothers who have received children in their youth and middle age and who have stayed at home for the children and for the state. [[Congratulations with the representatives of the FPÖ and by Mr Doppler and Mr Gerhard Schmid]] This is not only done for yourself if you have children, but it is always done for the state and for the people of the state. - That's all going down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] You can't say: Okay, if these numbers are so, then you have to take away the children, all of them being cared for because the poor women are in part-time! – Ask the women how much they would like to stay at home if the money were to vote! And ask the women if they don't volunteer into part-time! Most people go to part-time voluntarily or can't change because family conditions are so precarious due to the financial situation that they have to go into part-time. That's where you have to put. The families must be strengthened and not the state. It should not be said that the children are just deprived of the family association, as has been done in some speeches today. [[Congratulations with the representatives of the FPÖ and the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] If we consider a housewife's content, we consider a mother's content, we consider higher pensions for mothers! This would be socially fair to use this left-wing expression here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e19995	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-327 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:31:03]] 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the activity report 2016 of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2016/24 (III-328/1508 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, Series B. 2016/17 (III-313/1509 D.B.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, Series B. 2016/18 (III-314/1510, D.B.) 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2016/19 (III-315/1511 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20065	We come to points 9 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20093	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I can refer to the Court of Auditors' activity report for 2016. This report gives a good overview of the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has a central control function in the Republic of Austria. His core task is to test and advise. Vulnerabilities and improvement potential are also to be identified. The Court of Auditors submitted 23 reports to the National Council in 2016, with a total of 90 reports with countries, municipalities and chambers. 22 follow-up checks were carried out, 17 cross-sectional tests, 3 special tests were also carried out. There were also three Court of Auditors' position papers. These included the efficient school administration, positions for the sustainable development of Austria and the review of the internal control system. Following the accession of President Kraker in July 2016, some innovations were also made in the Court of Auditors' report form. The text has been streamlined, the reports now refer only to each ministry and, as has been said, the extensive reports with several topics are past. The Court of Auditors' report itself is now more readable on the basis of a new wording. The new President reworded and reformed the impact objectives under the new budgetary law, such as the effective consultation of legislators and the review of the implementation of his recommendations and the creation of a high level of to ensure transparency in the use of public funds in the state's financial sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen! The degree of implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations remained almost the same after this report in recent years. It was between 75 and 80 percent. This concerns both the demand procedure – in this context the audited institution is asked how many recommendations it has implemented – as well as the follow-up review – the auditors are once again in the establishments or in the institutions and check the implementations on the ground. In figures: In the demand process, 2 833 recommendations were implemented, which is 40.8 percent. An implementation of 37.3 percent has been promised. The Court of Auditors has been given new tasks, as has already been mentioned today. It is now about assessing these new tasks financially, and this will be one of the major key challenges in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors for their work and wish me further good cooperation between the Committee and the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20138	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20159	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors' activity report for 2016 is a comprehensive and comprehensive one. It provides insight into public financial control in federal, state and local authorities as well as in public enterprises. The Austrian Court of Auditors, in its central control function of the State as an independent body of Parliament, has carried out its control tasks. I would like to thank Presidents other than Dr Josef Moser, who is responsible for the first half of 2016 and has improved and optimised a lot for the Court of Auditors for over 12 years. However, I should also like to thank the new President, Dr. Kraker, who has been active since the middle of the year and who has been addressing the Court of Auditors with much enthusiasm and Elan. Mr Hell has already said: The fact that we have fewer reports in the future and more individual reports will help to make it possible to deal with the Court of Auditors reports in a timely manner. In 2016, the Court of Auditors examined 115 posts. The rate of positive implementation of the recommendations – with 2 833 recommendations – has increased to just under 80 percent. Of course, recommendations remain open again, but of course everything is not 100 percent feasible. For me, an important instrument is, of course, the means of follow-up checks. After a certain period of time, the recommendations will be re-examined once again. These follow-up audits contribute significantly to the continuity and quality of the audit work. Overall, we have a quota of 75 percent in the follow-up checks. We are currently in an intensive discussion, including with regard to the work of the Court of Auditors. Our new President has some ideas, of course our chairman has also made several wishes, and we ourselves know that we should and could make some improvements in the field of control and testing skills. There are, of course, different views, I can only address the municipal exams: Again and again the desire to review all the communities is expressed. From my point of view, it is now possible to examine communities with less than 10 000 inhabitants. There are already four levels of testing, so we must also ensure that we do not introduce too much bureaucracy and too many levels of examination. It is also required to examine companies from a share of the public sector of 25 percent. I am also of the opinion that it is always necessary to see this from the point of view of the entrepreneur, who bears 75 percent responsibility and risk. Further wishes are the examinations of outsourced companies in the Chambers, the obligation of truth to audit the Court of Auditors – I believe we have some potential for improvement; the Salzburg financial scandal is remembered to all of us, where there has certainly been errors with the Court of Auditors – as well as the examination of EU direct funding. One of the wishes of the President-in-Office of the Council was, of course, to shorten the obligation to deliver opinions from six months to three months, which is already being practised in some countries. At present, some reform proposals are also being discussed in the area of Constitution, particularly as regards the Party Law, the Media Transparency Act and the Incompatibilities and Transparency Act. There's a lot of administrative burden. The President of the Committee also stressed the importance of bringing about a certain discharge. For 2017, the Court of Auditors has set itself four new and current impact targets. These relate to the advice of the National Council and the Land Days on the implementation of public and state reforms, the creation of transparency – how are funds used, and how does financial sustainability look? – more and more visible transparency in the real equality between men and women and, in my view, very important, the effectiveness of strengthening cooperation between different control bodies. We should learn from Desaster Hypo Alpe-Adria, where, I think, there has been little cooperation among the control bodies, otherwise we could have detected some abuses earlier. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, especially if you had not turned off the Banking Committee!]] Overall, I believe, it is important that we continuously improve, optimize, align and focus on current developments in federal, state and local authorities. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for their training. There will be joint training in a relatively short time and the first course will start soon. This will also help to increase the quality of testing both at national and federal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20196	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20217	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Mayer, I'm looking at you, your adrenaline mirror has already fallen a little. [[Abg. Mayer: Attention, Attention!]] You've been in politics for a long time, you should know how I feel. In the case of Mr Kucher, I understand this, which is anyway a ‘KKK’, which is also very young in politics; ‘PKK’, you know: Cake, Carinthian, big fuck. That's not you, dear Mr. Mayer...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20252	Mr. Zanger, please be moderate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20267	However, Mr Mayer is already so experienced that he needs to know that what he says is wrong. 2002, Knittelfeld, cleaning process of the FPÖ started: I was live at the time. This is my home town, I'm proud that this happened there too, I have to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] You know that we did not agree with much of what happened back then, and the Freedom Party, just as it is sitting here, certainly has nothing to do with the hat that, if it has existed, there has been deterioration for its own people – certainly not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] One thing I would like to stress, Mr Mayer: The SPÖ has been in the government for ten years, and as the so-called workers' party you have not been able to negotiate improvements with the ÖVP. That's actually the weakness I see. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to see you sit there and be self-critical, because one thing I have to say: In the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, there are a number of requests from the Liberal and Democratic Party, which are being abandoned or rejected there at all. There, perhaps colleagues from your party could make the effort to consider in the Committee on Social Affairs whether there would be a few things that would be worth pursuing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] The ÖVP also does so; it takes up very good ideas of the Freedom Party. She then pretends to be her own, see Briefly, Sobotka et cetera. You could do that, too. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, these are honest Gauners!]] As the opposition party in Austria, the FPÖ has done very, very much, that the government parties actually have to do. If you do this now, it's okay for me, but then be honest with it and don't put it on your own flags, just as the ÖVP is trying all the time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now on the subject: The Court of Auditors has done an excellent job again, Madam President. Right in advance, thank you for being in office for half a year and for your entire team. I keep saying this: The Court of Auditors is Austria's audit body, and if you were honest, you would have to say: This is an institution that expects itself – if you really were to implement the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, if you really had these potentials. Although 80 percent of the recommendations are implemented, the high potential lies in the 20 percent that have not been implemented. If you were to implement it more strongly, you would have to say: The Court of Auditors assumes itself. For me too, it is incomprehensible that there are budgetary problems in your house at all, because that is not likely to be the case. In this potential collection of tax money, the bit costing the Court of Auditors is not at all an issue for me, and therefore the budgetary situation, which looks a little sad, is not understandable. For me very exciting are always the follow-up checks, which show again what has been done and what is not. I break a lance for the very complex cross-sectional tests, which really bring something in which one sees in which parts one country, one community does something different than another, how one can participate in the success of the other or where perhaps something happens that is not so good; but it produces a comparability and also brings a little more transparency into the matter. I think that is really excellent, and we should do everything we can to extend these cross-sectional tests. I know that's not possible at the moment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would also like to point out that there was a meeting last week in which we tried to get the Court of Auditors' wishes for discharge or for additional powers to come up with a little bit. This has now been achieved in sub-areas. I also know that the major areas in which the Court of Auditors is gabbling in administrative terms are the Media Transparency Act and the Party Law. Negotiations are at the Club level, but I hope that a way will be found here too. Because if one imagines that a significant number of test days – I think it was around 115 – are used in terms of manipulative activity in the media transparency law, then the already huge resources that could be used on the other hand will certainly be more efficient. That is what I hope for a reasonable agreement. Perhaps also a recommendation to the Court of Auditors: Today we have heard again from the Leader programmes in a previous item. It is Mr Hanger who is always talking about these regional development projects and who is breaking a lance for them. I must say, it may already be that there and there, in some selected areas, it works quite well, but I believe – and I appreciate it in the conjecture; that is not an absolute assumption, but I suspect – that in many of these regional development institutions, as they all call, whether Leader, Regional Management et Cetera, is produced a lot of headlines and hot air and that the whole is actually only a supply station for semi-retired EIA or SPÖ politicians. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: This is now...!]] – Yeah, that's right, that's my perception. It would not be a good idea to let the Court of Auditors look into it, then you would see what these headings include in actual terms. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] Let's just look at it, it's nothing behind it! There is no need to strive to let someone like the Court of Auditors look at this. [[New call for tender Pfurtscheller]] Then we all know, we don't need to put ourselves together, and you don't need to go in this juice every time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20390	Mr Mag. Kogler is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20412	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! We are now dealing with the general point of discussion on the activities of the Court of Auditors. If one summarizes what has already been said today and even more intensively in the Committee, then this is actually one of the points of view. One really has to say that the Austrian Court of Auditors has an outstanding position in many respects. Even in the European Court of Auditors, which has already been the subject today, the Austrian Court of Auditors is outstanding in that it is now really an equally outstanding representative, who has learned his crafts in this Federal Court of Auditors, who reports outstandingly and ambitiously. If all the Courts of Auditors of the European Union were so, we would have won a lot. Cooperation with the European Court of Auditors is also getting better and better, as is the case with these reports here – that is, great compliments! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Moser, Mr Rossmann and Mr Lopatka.]] It has gone so far as it is, one has to make a short advance, and it has been so courageous, because, after many years of experience and work in the field, we have also wondered how the relationship with the anti-fraud authority Olaf is at European level: Yes, unfortunately still not the best, and if OLAF, the anti-fraud authority, continues to fight fraud enough, they will be examined by the European Court of Auditors themselves. That's what I call an announcement. This has also been welcomed by us because we now have so many European issues here. We know there's a lot to improve, too, and that's all very nice in there. It should also be noted that the Austrian Court of Auditors also plays an important role in the Association of International Courts of Auditors. So I also assume that this will continue to be the case. The activities are yes, you can always convince yourself of them. I now come to an area relating to the relationship between the Austrian courts of account. There are also several who work very well. I'll send you in advance: By far the best, because it has, of course, most resources, but because it is the living tradition and it has the longest tradition, the Federal Court of Auditors does not normally say so. It is always and regularly, even if the same is checked, to expect the most, because the Federal Court of Auditors can check almost everything the national accounting authorities also check, and audit plans are certainly correct and important. But, so to speak, the greatest fear – if you want to formulate it positively: Incentive effect – is generated by someone who believes: Hoppla! At some point, the Federal Court of Auditors may pass. That is why I now come to this argument that – and I am defending what previous speakers have said, and the budgetary situation in the Federal Court of Auditors is becoming increasingly tense – at the next financial framework and in the budgets now really must be respected, because if we want to maintain the standard of the Court of Auditors, then it cannot be that he lives on from the reserves, because then it is over at some point. We already have the subject, we have already arrived. It is really time for us not to let the Minister of Finance and the Government put a budget in the house and let us, as inspectors, as Members of Parliament, determine how much the Court of Auditors, who is part of it, can cost. Every euro is well invested five times, we know. There are also the relevant evaluations. The Courts of Auditors check them and check each other across Europe – that is, good things. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to an example which as such is not so good, but I hope in this apostrophic Federal Court of Auditors. I have already brought the example to the committee, and it is also about the relationship and proportionality between the Courts of Auditors. The Styrian Court of Auditors I think it would also be more difficult for him to examine a process which is now under the theme of nuclear power stations. Don't worry, we won't have an eco-discussion per or double hydropower. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about... – Yes, listen! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am concerned that there is a very big waste of tax money there, or is about to start; but there can be months left to go by. That is why I am forwarding that we need to end this transparency, which exists there with all the financial flows, because this project will require a number of accompanying buildings that are budgeted elsewhere. And it's almost just about public money, on the one hand, there is EStAG as an investor, the association that wants to enter, and the country of Styria and the city of Graz, which promotes in the circle as at a cap game, where Mr Finanzlandesrat and the City Finance Council themselves cannot plausibly answer what's going on at all. They're hat players; we don't know if they're trick thieves yet, but that's what you're looking at. The power plant has an investment volume, we say, of X, there are just over €80 million. The accompanying buildings, which become necessary, are equally high in the total investment. It is always claimed that they would not be necessary. And now? – Now we have a study by the operator itself, by EStAG. They are swadden about economic effects and job effects that will not exist in this form. But one thing is interesting, which is on page 3: “The construction of the power plant solves additional investments of the city of Graz” – that is to say, the extra costs there – “of about 60 million. €” – net – “off that which only attack,” – be careful! – “when the Mur power plant Graz is built.” That alone, and it is always kept silent, is reason enough that once again the right person – and as I mean, the Federal Court of Auditors – takes care of rolling up this transparency, stopping the waste of tax money, and in this period has a construction stop to rule. We could examine the relevant decision-making steps, because we cannot do any accompanying control, and this thought-out would be very much used. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is particularly true in a city in which the mayor at university professors who present such things goes away with the words that they are chaotic, but even conceals the fact that the Graz ÖVP has been lulled off from Telekom for his election struggles. This is a fine society, and we'll see who benefits from this project. That's why: Construction stop, reflection break, Federal Court of Auditors. We'll prepare it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20502	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20523	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Mr Kogler, that was a creative interpretation of the Court of Auditors' activity report! [[Abg. Kogler: The conditions of the billing courts to each other!]] [[Abg. Moser: Is pro futuro!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I would like to use the debate to address the changes in the Court of Auditors which have come with the new President, and also to praise them. Unfortunately, the procedure around the election was rather marked by old politics: Intregen, backrooms, votes – however you may call it – called un-fine cow trafficking; all of which the people actually have enough. In retrospect, I have to say that it is very bad that the new President had to start office in this way, and I hope that the men in this House, who are responsible for this, will also assume this responsibility and perhaps have also addressed it. Your work, Madam President, has been marked by a very open, pleasant and collegial climate of cooperation, which we honourable Members of the Court of Auditors, I think, all very much appreciate. I trust to speak for everyone. What I very much welcome is also the innovations in the field of public relations. It has been noted that the presentation, the dissemination of the Court of Auditors reports, has been given a great deal of attention recently. The Court of Auditors now has a social media performance. You can now all go on Facebook and like the Court of Auditors. There's no such thing as that so far. You can also follow the speaker on Twitter. I therefore like this because I believe that we all benefit from the fact that the Court of Auditors reports are accessible to more people, more citizens and are also read, because often the reduction in the media is not what is really in a report of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Kogler: That's right!]] Even the online survey, which unfortunately, as we have already heard, has not been completed by all Members, but still by a few, is a great thing. The Court of Auditors shows that it also wants to see itself as Parliament's instrument and wants to live that way. However, I would also like to use this speech to address what has still not changed, and I would also like to take responsibility for the responsibility of the Members of the Government. The Court of Auditors has been under-dated for years. We have this discussion back to the autumn budget round each year. Mr Kogler has already mentioned it. As the President said last time and before, Mr President, it is about the fact that 323 plantations can only be occupied by 276, and that the money, year after year, must also be taken out of reserves. One can only explain this and assume that the government parties are not interested in control. This is very bad, because the next election is going, I think, with each day closer, and one or another will have to think about how it will be if one is suddenly in opposition. [[Abg. Lugar: I'm sure it is!]] Then it could be that one regrets that one cannot use to the full the most important control instrument of a Member, a Member. At the latest this day it will be noted that the Court of Auditors should perhaps not have been subject to the budget round last year, and it will hopefully be written down for the next government period, if you sit back in it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20606	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20627	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Court of Auditors' activity report is a very impressive current account. I'm allowed to go to the... In the first place, I would also like to thank the President and, above all, her dedicated team in the Court of Auditors, the auditors, the section heads who are doing a very, very good job, a very good job for the Austrian taxpayers, for the Court of Auditors is looking at the taxpayers' money and is looking at whether it is being used effectively, effectively and economically. For this there is a warm thank you from my side. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Many areas have already been discussed, which we have also discussed in the Committee – I do not want to repeat all of this now. I would like to refer to a few points which I think are important and which will of course accompany us in the future and which we will also discuss more often. We have been in agreement with the Court of Auditors several times, and last week we were also invited to the Court of Auditors for a very nice evening, where we had a very good exchange of views and we could also agree on some areas which we will be submitting here in the form of a request in the framework of a six-party solution. In consultation with the Court of Auditors, for example, we will address the issue of special tasks, because these capacities of the Court of Auditors are binding on them, which they lack in carrying out their core tasks. That is to say, these special tasks are supposed to disappear from the Court of Auditors so that more capacity is available for the audit, for the performance of the core tasks. As already mentioned, we have agreed to address areas such as closing the audit gap in EU direct funding, as well as the audit gap in the Banking Union. With regard to the reduction of the period of opinion, which is six weeks, we are of course also approaching the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors. The clarification of the duty of truth to the Court of Auditors is also a very important point and a very important issue. We have also seen this around the financial scandal in Salzburg. This demand still comes from the predecessor Dr. Josef Moser, who drew attention to this issue and also called for it. We will, of course, also come closer to this, and I have already sent it to Parliament in a request. This request is also contained in this package, with which we are looking at a common solution. What I cannot understand, and we have talked about it very often, is the area of finance when it comes to making more money available to the Court of Auditors. It is not a lot of money, it has already been said today, and let us bear in mind how much money the Court of Auditors can save us! He would not need much more money at all, but it is always up to the financial negotiations when it comes to the budget, the corresponding funds for the Court of Auditors. That is why my appeal to the representatives of the government parties to make a real commitment to the next budget is that the Court of Auditors, as we have discussed this with the President of the Council, will really get the financial resources he really needs, because, as I said, the Court of Auditors is looking at the taxpayers' money, and that is good and right and must also be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20679	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20702	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors' current activity report has again shown us one thing: Statements such as that the Court of Auditors would only produce papers whose contents will not be implemented at all, do not have a degree of implementation of around 75 to 80 percent of each basis. With the use of the instruments of the demand procedure and in particular the local follow-up checks, the Court of Auditors shall draw up the funds available to it to determine whether recommendations have also been made accordingly. However, an implementation rate of 75 to 80 percent also means that around 20 to 25 percent, i.e. almost every fourth recommendation of the Court of Auditors, have not been implemented. The reasons for this are mostly in the political will, one will not agree, that is why the ball is dedicated to us to find agreements here. According to the Court of Auditors, as has been mentioned so often, the problematic administrative structures in the school administration are clearly amended. National School Councils as the Federal Authority are subject to unauthorised national influence. Inefficiencies such as the financing of national teachers and teachers produce unnecessary administrative burden. If everything is put on the table black on white, we should also make the necessary effort to achieve common implementation here. I would like to give an impetus to the reduction in the regular assessment period of six weeks. To this end, the Court of Auditors' report has shown that 47 of the submitted drafts were partially undermined, in some cases even reduced to less than 10 days. In individual cases this can be certainly justified and can also be comprehensible, but the fundamental tenor must be that as many opinions can be collected from all parts of society as possible, and that simply takes time. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] We owe it to citizens outside to decide on reform packages only if we have carefully reviewed their impact. And no speed-kills methods should be used. As our former President Heinz Fischer said, Speed kills means nothing but: The faster you whip through, the less people can defend themselves. – And that can and must not be in our sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20745	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20767	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition to the activity report to which my previous speakers have devoted themselves, we also have to discuss four follow-up tests under this agenda item, and I would like to discuss some follow-up report. The first concerns how the Diplomatic Academy has implemented the Court of Auditors’ recommendations from the 2013 examination. Of the 15 revised recommendations, eight were fully and partially implemented at the Diplomatic Academy and four were fully and one were not implemented in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A recommendation to evaluate the content and scope of the course has been implemented. The permeability was increased, and the integration into the Bologna system guaranteed. The recommendation to evaluate the international attractiveness of the Master of Science in Environmental Technology and International Affairs has not been met. The Court of Auditors' recommendation to improve the structure of staff costs, in particular with regard to the high proportion of administrative departments in favour of teaching activities, implemented the Diplomatic Academy, as well as the recommendation to intensify efforts to conclude cooperation with international companies. There are now regular so-called Career Talks with economic representatives at the Diplomatic Academy. Similarly, the staff structure with regard to teaching was strengthened and the award of scholarships was also strengthened in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendation. In the field of the Ministry of Health there was also a follow-up review in the health care system and in the mother-child pass. The audit was carried out in 2014, and the Court of Auditors noted last year that the Ministry of Health has implemented four completely and three of the eleven recommendations. The Recommendation has been implemented to ensure that all the resources spent on health promotion and prevention are actually subject to a common strategy and thus a coordinated approach. A systematic documentation of health promotion and prevention activities has also been established. A central database in which the data are structured is also planned. Recommendations relating to the mother-child passport, such as the examinations provided for in the mother-child passport, were not implemented or partially implemented, among other things, were examined for their cost-benefit ratio. Some investigations have been examined in terms of content, but the process has not yet been completed. In principle – the lamp already lights – it must be noted that follow-up tests are very, very important for both sides, on the one hand for the authorities and institutions examined, because they get a feedback on how well the implementations and to what degree they have taken place. On the other hand, it is also important for the Court of Auditors itself to receive feedback on why recommendations have been implemented or not implemented. Sometimes – and this is perhaps also a conclusion for the Court of Auditors – there are also recommendations whose implementation is not as easy as possible due to legal conditions – I just want to mention the mother-child passport here. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for these reports and also for the activity report which Mr Gahr has already mentioned in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20815	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20836	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 9 to 12: all test reports; I comment on TOP 9: Activity Report 2016 of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is a real and important institution for our Republic, and its work and its control reports – I said it last time, and I say it again today – for us MEPs, it is an important basis for work. The Court of Auditors shall have 1. ==References====External links== The proportion of staff expenditure in the Court of Auditors budget is 84 percent. The Court's recommendations will continue to be of particular importance. The impact controls will be taken into account in the future, said the President. For example, some 75 percent of the Court’s 468 recommendations in 2016 have been implemented and have thus become effective. The Court of Auditors also has a lot of work to do with the advisory activities. As you can see, in 2016 he submitted 23 reports and 63 reports to the National Council and 66 reports to the Land Days. Madam President. I would have a question to you: We discussed at the last or previous meeting that the reserves of the Federal Court of Auditors were exhausted. Now I would be interested to hear from you whether it is still possible to continue this extensive work to this extent and this quality. Finally: a warm thanks to you and to your team for your great work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20885	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20906	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! We have just heard from Mr Lettenbichler: There are also positive pages in the Court of Auditors' report, such as the review of the implementation of the recommendations on prevention and prevention. There, uniform documentation bases were created to compare precautionary data. But where we still find a very massive manko and therefore have a great need for action, that is the area of intestinal health. We have the precautionary coloscopy instrument, the precautionary arm mirror. This is internationally proven and is used everywhere in the civilized world – far too little in Austria. If this method of investigation is carried out by specialists, it is completely pain-free and very risk-free. Now a few numbers on this: You may now think: Why does he come to us with intestinal health? It's just a margin in medicine. - No, it's not. The colon cancer is one of the three most common cancers at all, and in Austria we have 5,000 new cases a year and 3,000 deaths. Ladies and gentlemen! At present, it is planned that every 10 years every person should be given the benefit of 50, but only 6 to 12 percent of the Austrians use this study – only 6 to 12 percent! By comparison, it is 20 percent in Bavaria. That is to say, we could save thousands of people every year and over ten years if we proceed properly here and start a major political campaign on intestinal health. There is a study from Vorarlberg last year. The colleagues in Vorarlberg looked at what could be achieved if you really started an information campaign and approached the people. They have calculated that per patient suffering from intestinal cancer and already has metastases, in addition to the Disgustingly, people could be spared, with incredible economic costs per case and patient, €240 000. If you calculate everything, the sicknesses, the early deaths, the whole suffering in the family, the need for care et cetera et cetera, then you come up to an amount of €3 to €4 billion, which you could save over ten years by a comprehensive intestinal care of the national economy. So I think these are impressive numbers, and we also have international comparisons that prove that you really can do something. Intestinal cancer is the only carcinoma that can really be prevented by a simple diagnostic and therapeutic measure, and that is just the intestinal reflection. I would like to invite you and ask you to influence the people in your circle and the citizens in your constituency, so that they can really make this investigation happen. Little is as safe in medicine as the benefit of intestinal reflection. I therefore believe that we need a national action plan for intestinal health, and may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e20976	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Mr Franz, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21041	Next word: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21062	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Lettenbichler! Exactly with your example, in order to implement the recommendations, legal measures are often necessary, you should point out that the Court of Auditors, on the one hand, as a control institution, is our best instrument and body, and, on the other hand, is our best adviser as regards legal initiatives to improve the situation of taxpayers. This dual function of the We also need to take a particular look at the situation as an incentive to change legislation. That is why we must make a special effort and take various measures, all of which are mentioned in the activity report. The activity report is, after all, a pitfall for reform measures and, in the context of the federal accounts, has repeatedly highlighted the areas in which there is a particular need for reform, and that is where there are these double tracks, overlaps of competence and inadequacies due to the competition between the federal government and countries. And I don't get tired of pointing it out again and again in this house – that's my body and life theme, because it's really about billions – that we just have to put the lever there. And I also said that when the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany presented this programme, “For Austria”, this so-called shortened government programme, that most of it is to be obtained. There is a working group on this, and the “For Austria” programme is listed as the target date of February. – So, now is the 1st. March. What has happened to this working group? – I can answer it exactly: It was a “time in the picture” contribution in which it was about the administrative reform or state reform, as always one wants to call it, and that is what it is all about. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly stressed: If something doesn't happen here at last, then still billions go down the stream! The Court's priority task is indeed to point out that the best way to use tax resources is to use them – and you do not do so if you do not finally put the reform lever here. I am grateful that my colleagues on the government side of the Court of Auditors have agreed on five points, whose implementation costs nothing, to finally take the path of a joint request. Thank you very much, also for putting up with me. I've been in your ears for almost a year now, that we can achieve something together, and I hope we can really do it now. Madam President, for example, there is also a reduction in the time limit for the opinion, which allows us to bring forward the reports more quickly, so that we can move faster. If many Members today have praised the fact that 75 percent, sometimes even 78 percent of the proposals are implemented, I tell you that the proposals that have not been implemented are, above all, those that are about billions and double-tracks. This is, as it were, the hardcore work that is not done. However, I do not want to mention the work done by the Ministries or institutions, no question, that is also important, only the main problem lies elsewhere. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for pointing this out over and over again. Madam President, we will still need your strong voice in public, especially the government parties. I would also like to thank you for giving the Court of Auditors a very strong view of the issue of equality, that you have an eye on it – you see, there is now a new manuscript – and that the Court of Auditors will also be guided in this respect, which means equality and equal opportunities between men and women. The income report discussed today has shown us how urgently that is necessary, how urgently the lever needs to be addressed here. Income report is the last word for me. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Gahr and Mr Klubobmann Lopatka again and again for their support. come from managers in public enterprises and in the area of the Republic. We also need transparency! What you are always saying here as a core concern of the Court of Auditors, transparency, is also necessary for managers' salaries in the Republic. In the case of establishments belonging to the Republic, the same law as the listed ones must apply. That is of course true on the stock exchange, and we want this to be true of our state-owned and close-to-state establishments. Madam President. You still have a wide range of topics available to us in the ears, and I am happy to listen to you. I don't know if that's what the others are doing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21119	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker, has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21141	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now you have to listen to me, even at the end of the agenda. First of all, I would like to thank you for the intensive debate on the Court of Auditors and on the Court of Auditors which took place today. Thank you also for the commending words that have been found here to the Court of Auditors. This is particularly important for the employees of the house, who work on it every day and ensure that we can present quality reports to the National Council and also to the public. I can personally say that I have great pleasure in working with the National Council, and hope that we can still move a lot together and bring a lot into implementation, especially when I realize that the topics of financial control and the legal bases are also in the river. The activity report gives an overview of the work last year; I was responsible for this for only half a year, the rest falls into the responsibility of my predecessor, who has done great work. Now, however, I want to focus on very few points, and I would like to say that we have often discussed the Court of Auditors' views on the topics you have addressed here – special tasks of the Court of Auditors, such as party law, media transparency law – and that the Court of Auditors' position is clearly on the table and also in the activity report. I don't want to go closer to that now. One of my objectives is to cooperate and provide effective advice with the National Council and the Landstags, and to do so we surveyed an online survey of 18 thematic blocks. I have to say that the return rate was in itself low, but the approval rate was – at 89.8 percent – high. In this way, our target value defined in the objectives of action was over-fulfilled. And I can assume that silence means consent. In any case, I should like to thank all those who have made the effort to really fill in the questionnaire and also to address comments and suggestions to us. We are now in the process of carefully analysing this in the Court of Auditors and taking this feedback into account. Another goal is to strengthen cooperation with other control institutions, particularly with the national accounting authorities. That is why I invited the Court of Auditors to a conference, in which the representative of the European Court of Auditors also took part to vote on audit plans to establish cooperation. The topic was also the basic training new. We work on this joint tester training for all. That too will be a milestone for networking. And, of course, as far as the audit plans are concerned, it is also possible for you at any time to supplement them by your right of application and by your constitutional right. The Austrian Court of Auditors is still the General Secretariat of INTOSAI, the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Authorities, and I would like to report, because only once a year is there, that last December in Abu Dhabi, the big congress took place, where 600 participants from over 160 countries debated issues and goals such as development and professionalization. In 2017, we have other important INTOSAI agendas: At the end of May there is a symposium at the Vienna International Centre on Digitalization, Open Data and Data Mining, and there is a presidential meeting of INTOSAI, which will take place here in Austria in November. The Court of Auditors has currently – and you have already reported these figures and data in the course of the debate – 307 employees. So it is from the staff plan, which has 323 planning posts – the consolidation path provides 312 posts – that 276 full employment equivalents are occupied. Staff expenditure accounts for 84 percent and thus most of our budget. The number of women in the Court of Auditors is 47.2 per cent – and the net rate, without the President. In autumn, we already debated the Court of Auditors' deposit situation, the issue of payment limits. I would like you because at the end of 2017, the reserve will no longer be sufficient to finance the expenditure under the 2018 ceilings accordingly to ask for your estimated support, and you have also signaled it. The staff of the Court of Auditors are, in fact, the most important resource, and the good values of the Court of Auditors are due to the work of the employees. As President, it is also important to me that the work of the Court of Auditors becomes effective for the benefit of the general public, and in this sense we have changed our information and communication policy. Since October 2016, the Court of Auditors has been using Twitter and Facebook since last week to inform firsthand about the work of the Court of Auditors in a modern form. The Court of Auditors' main work is, of course, our reports. 63 audit reports were submitted to the National Council, including the income report we have just discussed, and the federal accounts. In this regard, innovations are as follows: Individual reports, gender-based language, accessibility of our reports. In addition, we are in discussions with Parliament's Directorate on the electronic presentation of the reports from September onwards, but of course we will continue to provide you with work copies in printed form. The topic of cross-sectional checks has also been addressed today. I think that examination is not the same, and cross-sectional examinations are important because they allow comparisons, comparisons between the institutions, comparisons between the regional authorities. There may come to best practices, and there may be appropriate benchmarks. The federal state is often criticized. The same task is often performed differently throughout Austria, and the Court of Auditors as a general government body can present its overall view. It can compare, it can contribute to further development with the help of its results. Systems, whether or not in the communities, to be able to learn from each other, and not always need to reinvent the wheel. In addition, the Court of Auditors will continue to point out critically where several bodies offer similar offers and where they will result in expensive inefficiency. We ensure that the funds are used effectively and that they are not lost in the thickness of the local authorities. The subject of follow-up inspections is important. The 2016 impact control showed that the 468 recommendations audited in the context of a follow-up review achieved a 75 percent implementation rate. For the year 2017 we also plan an extension in this respect, we plan 26 follow-up reviews. A similar result was the demand procedure. I would like to say that the presentation of the demand procedure or its results is fully available to you. Even if the activity report is slightly thinner: The presentation of the demand procedure is available on the homepage and will of course also be sent to Parliament. What is important to me is to see, as it were, that the State's services are worth public use. I am concerned about the benefits to citizens. In addition to this objective and objective criticism, the recommendations should be the central work of the Court of Auditors. These recommendations will also show the audited bodies and the responsible bodies ways in which they can orient their actions on them. In this sense, we also work out a new test focus for 2018 and the following. For this we have made a special theme, which is to say: Quality of public sector performance, in particular with regard to citizens' benefits, cost optimization and the modern performance of tasks. I believe that this is a core task of the Court of Auditors: to see that the services are available to citizens. In order to achieve meaningful knowledge, this focus is also to be defined for several years. It is then possible to draw a summary on the basis of concrete test results. I would like to conclude by thanking the political groups for their intense consideration of the issue of a common consensus on the development of the legal bases for the Court of Auditors. I look forward to these results with interest and I am pleased if you are willing to make financial control in Austria on a contemporary basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21248	Thank you, Madam President. No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote, which I shall be voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals as always. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-328 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-313 of the supplements. Who's right? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-314 of the supplements. Who's right? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-315 of the supplements. Who agrees to the request? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Franz, colleagues on the ‘National action plan on intestinal health’. Who agrees to this request? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:33:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00165_d7e21351	I announce that self-employed applications 2004/A(E) to 2026/A(E) have been submitted at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.33 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
