ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1461	The meeting was opened. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting of 9. In November 2017, there were no objections at the Parliament's management. Deputies of Baumgartner, Grünberg, Brückl and Dipl.-Ing. are reported as prevented. [[10:03:48]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1495	We shall come to the attention of the honourable Member, Mr Mag, who was prevented at the last meeting. Harald Stefan. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new mandater will have to do his fishing with the words “I vow”. I am now seeking the author, Mrs Lueger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1525	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1546	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1562	I warmly welcome the honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. [[10:04:59]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1594	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Security police measures to combat possible terrorist activities in the face of threats in Europe’ Mr Amon is the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1621	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is no doubt that it is one of the most important tasks of the State, for the security of the The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council will be able to give their full support to the Commission's proposals on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. But this is not something that is natural, but that is something that needs to be developed every day. This must be worked out by the legal framework, but also by the forces of our executives, by the forces, by all police bodies and, of course, by the judicial authorities. I am almost in Otto Pendl's successor role today, but I think it is appropriate to express a great deal of thanks to all executive staff at the beginning of such a debate. [[General condolences.]] We attach importance to the fact that the monopoly of violence lies with the state. However, the State's monopoly of violence also guarantees that human rights are respected and respected in a country. That is why it is our police who must guarantee and guarantee these human rights every day. In my opinion, the predecessor of the present Minister of the Interior has said again and again: The police are therefore the country's largest human rights organization. We – and I think that is important – have ensured the violence of Ultima Ratio for our police units, that is, as the last means of the necessary use. In fact, in all these years and decades in Austria, it has succeeded in ensuring security within the state territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, however, we have had the situation that a very huge wave of refugees, migration has come to our country. There was a very critical situation when there was a disagreement within the Federal Government, how to deal with it, especially in the border area. This has led to an incredible uncertainty in the population, as I had never experienced it in my life, even in my political life. I believe that we must ensure that there should never be any such disagreement in the Federal Government on such essential issues as the security of the citizens of our country. I think that is necessary, that is important, because we cannot have this uncertainty in the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to express my express thanks to the divorced Federal Minister for Defence, Mr Doskozil, and also to the long-standing security spokesperson of the SPÖ Otto Pendl in this regard. They were also those who helped there and just in time – I want to say – they realized that there is a need to create a unity here in order to guarantee security again. The theme of the current hour is the terrorist threat in Europe: In Austria, I believe, we have recognised this threat in good time, we have properly assessed it and we have also started a debate on how to deal with the police state protection measures in good time. We have held a very long and open discussion about the new Police State Protection Act, involving all political forces. We have been driving abroad together, we have considered how other countries deal with this situation, have conducted a survey in Parliament on this issue, the Federal Ministry of the Interior has also conducted a survey on the subject. We have actually achieved great unity in much of this law. It was almost like Peter Pilz agreed to the law. I can quote him, he said here in the debate that he has never been so successful. He's been... It is true that many of the points that were introduced by the Greens at the time have been taken into account in the Police State Protection Act. Finally, the Constitutional Court also found that this federal law is not unconstitutional. Some were of the opinion that there would be points in it that do not comply with the federal constitution. I believe that this law is almost an example of how it makes sense to have difficult laws to take a little time and to examine things properly and to discuss them properly. It is also hard to say that it has succeeded to date in keeping this terrorist threat, which there is no doubt, away from Austria – not as a threat situation, but so far, thanks to God's implementation. I would like to contradict those who believe that Austria would not necessarily be a target country for any terrorist act. This is a pious wish that we all ultimately have, but the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately another. We were grateful to God in time, for example, with the very great action of Palmyra under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, when in autumn 2016 we took action against radical preachers with over 900 officials, against mosques in which radically preached, against persons who were at least suspected. There have also been a number of convictions of people suspected of recruiting people for jihad or of planning terrorist actions in the country. Austria is a country which has again been very strong as a country of international encounter, and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister in particular. Finally, there was the great meeting of the OSCE, and I can also recall the Iran conference that took place in Vienna. Austria is the seat of countless international organisations, that is, a country that could be a target country for such attacks. That is why it is important, right and necessary, that we put our executive, who faces major challenges every day, in the hands of those means necessary to avoid such criminal actions. However, these funds must also be constantly adapted to the threat situation. We must not leave our executives in the rain. It can't be that international crime is playing terrorism in the Champions League with its possibilities and we're staying at the regional league level. No, we have to give the executive the necessary resources to what we have done on a continuous basis. In recent years we have received 1,500 additional police officers and equipped the corresponding units with more staff. However, I also believe that this staff offensive must continue in the executive, as well as the equipment offensive for the executive must be continued. Data protection must not be misinterpreted and must not lead to a perpetrator's protection. We need a data protection that protects the individual, but on the other side of the executive, it is very likely that the various forms of communication that exist today, which are taking place today, can be monitored in individual cases, if it is necessary, with judicial and public prosecutor's participation. The forms of communication are constantly changing. Earlier than not being communicated on the Internet, monitoring was easier in critical situations than it is today. That is why we need to give the executive the necessary resources to prevent attacks in Austria as well. I am not speaking from literature to a state in 1984. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] On the contrary, I believe that we need to be very careful in critical phases – and we are in such a critical phase – that we do not play out security and freedom against each other. There is no freedom without the guarantee of security for citizens. That is why, I think, even in the next legislative period, we are going to take the issue of security very seriously, that we do not act in excess, but we are taking measures to ensure that our citizens, all those who live in the federal territory, can guarantee the greatest possible security in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1737	For a preliminary opinion on the matter, the Federal Minister for the Interior has spoken. Wolfgang Sobotka. I'll give it to him. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1761	High house! Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Seers and listeners on televisions! On Monday, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” entitled that the number of violent Salafists in Germany had risen to 10,800 people. – These people are suspected or have already expressed their attitude through their statements or also demonstrated a willingness to violence. The protector of the Constitution in Germany, Constitutional Protector Maassen, meant that the scene had changed enormously. It is not only about the returnees who returned from Jihad to Germany, but above all about those who radicalize themselves in Germany. It is about those who came to Germany years ago, especially from the North Caucasian Republics. In part, they also have war experience in Iraq and Syria. Now a situation arises in which this radicalization does not happen on the open road or in the mosques – you can also remember the Koran distributions with us – but in the back rooms, in private circles and especially on the Internet. The situation is similar in Austria. If you're dividing through 10, you'd have to reach 1 800. We made up about 1,000. The State Protection Act makes it possible for us to detect a great deal in advance in the context of the risk speech. We know about where they're going, in which circles they're moving. However, it is becoming increasingly difficult, and the trend that exists in Germany is, of course, one too one in Austria too. At the same time, we have the following situation since 2015, if you only look at the terrorist attacks in Europe: more than 100 terrorist attacks with saying and writing 719 victims and 1,362 injured. Terror is not banished, because countries that have never believed in getting into the focus of this terror, such as Finland, are also affected. That is to say, it cannot be ruled out for Austria either. We know today that the next attack is planned, but we do not know when, and we do not know where; therefore, we cannot and must not exclude this for Austria. From this point of view, the Ministry of the Interior, with many participants, with the police, the BAT, the LVs and many private organizations, has already taken place in the previous year. to try to develop a three-pillar strategy: prevention, deradization and police control. We attach great importance to working with civil organisations. ==References== July we have had numerous meetings with private organisations, derad and re-starting organisations, such as women without borders or the documentation archive of Austrian resistance, to see where extremism and radicalism arise and how we can combat them preventively. Until the first quarter of 2018, the strategy is to stand as we, in particular, prevent this evil from getting its root. It is crucial not only to take action at the end of the chain, but above all to start very early, for example in school. We've trained officials to give lectures in schools. We have trained officials on crossing borders accordingly in order to be able to see radicalisation or radicalisation trends in the initial interviews. There are, therefore, broad-ranging measures, which are then bundled into a strategy. Deradicisation in our judicial institutions, including the examination of the conditions of detention and the cooperation in detention, separation from each other are very important to us. It is above all a restart and derad that support us very decisively. Therefore, this fight against terrorism, against political Salafism and against Islamism is for us a matter in which we must necessarily involve civil society. This means that we can also fight this very widely. The third element for us is the police action. Last year, we decided quite clearly on the police forces in the BAT, which are in the LVs, but you all know, of course, that this is not going from today to tomorrow. People have to be well trained. We have also achieved a European level in the police special units, which knows us at the top of Europe. In the RAN, in the EU's radicalisation awareness network, Austria also plays a very crucial role in shaping and also in seeing what measures must be taken at the police level. It has already mentioned security spokesperson Amon that we need measures in the Security Police Act to respond to the changed situation mentioned earlier, that terrorists and suspected persons with extremist, terrorist backgrounds organize differently, so we need more than ever the monitoring of the messenger services. We have no chance – in the last arrests it has shown itself again –: Dozens of mobile phones with unregistered value cards form the communications network. 90 percent of telephone traffic goes over encrypted communications channels in the area of the Internet. You can still remember my saying of several months ago when I said here: It is an attack on the safety not to carry it out. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be very aware of this: If we don't give the police these possibilities, we have little chance to detect these networks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria 2017: Remember the big action Josta and remember the cases that began in January 2017 with Konrad K. and only a few weeks ago found a sad end to the arrest of the 24-year-old Syrian in Salzburg! The same patterns were established everywhere. We have dozens of people under observation, we also have dozens of people in the focus in the context of the risk speech, but we have to find more and more that we cannot track their tracks because we cannot track encrypted communication. That's why this is a key: We can equip the police with all the protective facilities, but if we do not provide them with the means of monitoring of this instrument by which terrorists, extremists and hazards operate, we will not be able to lead the fight with success. In this sense, I would also ask Parliament to show a great deal of closeness. This is not an interest of a party, it is not an interest of the police, it is an interest of the general state to enforce the rule of law and to offer security to our Austrians. What we have done in our annual markets, Christmas markets, is preventive work, but only with concrete blocks alone and corresponding police presence we will not create it. I would therefore ask you very much not to close this discussion and then take responsibility in a joint action there too!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1843	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1868	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Terrorism or counter-terrorism is probably not the subject that one would like to see in the pre-Christmas. But it is a matter of still special topicality. It is not a question of arousing fear or anxiety, but rather of addressing a real threat that still exists in Austria and also in the EU and which we must take seriously. But I also want to point out that we can do something with the right means to prevent something. We know that in recent years, the EU and its member countries have also been the focus of terrorist organisations. According to the EU alone, at least 142 attacks were planned in 2016. Many of them – and thank God – have failed or have been eroded by good police work. In 2016, however, 135 people were killed due to actual attacks. If we look at the figures for the year 2017, at least the ones we know, this balance sheet is not much better. The fight against radicalisation, against terrorism, is not one that we lead alone. Especially in recent years, we have forced cooperation between the countries, the authorities and the companies in and from Austria. At the Austrian level, we have set up a network for extremism prevention and deradization in order to counteract early, together with religious communities, with associations, with schools and with parents. There are contact points for those who want to be informed, advised or even seek help in their environment, and there is coordination of competent bodies, aid organisations and experts and a common path, defined steps and mobile teams to be able to provide effective help – from the first sign to the reintegration into society. But Austria has also used its position in the world to seek Community ways. Especially in the OSCE, under the chairmanship of Austria, with our Foreign Minister Sebastian, short-term violent extremism, but also radicalisation, which can lead to terrorism, became a subject of the State Conference. Here in. Vienna has met more than 400 experts to discuss and decide on measures. I would just like to take out two areas which, as I believe, are important in a digital world. On the one hand, we must rely on education and prevention and further develop them, especially in the school sector. It must be a special concern for us to protect young people from false promises, propaganda and hatred, and to incite terrorist organisations. This is necessary because groups such as the so-called Islamic State use the Internet, the social media very well to address and radicalize young people. Federal Minister Brandstetter, but also colleague State Secretary Duzdar, have had discussions with platform operators in recent years – Facebook, Google, Amazon et cetera – to be able to delete illegal content as quickly as possible. We know, however, that this only helps due to the fact that it can be uploaded at any time, because it appears on other sides again, or because it happens outside our field of perception, in private chats or forums. All the more important it is to thematicize and clarify that so that young people also develop awareness of what happens online, what they see there, what it means so that they are not drawn into this suckling. On the other hand, I would also like to put on the table the issue of cybersecurity. Terrorism is not only a phenomenon of the analogue world, but also of the digital world. There too we must give our security authorities appropriate resources. We must rely on cooperation at European level and also with the private sector. This is mainly about vital areas of critical infrastructure, health care, water, electricity, communication, and that we protect ourselves from being manipulated, that they may be disturbed or even fail. There are good measures on the table that a future government in Austria should also develop and continue. I believe, too, and I would like to conclude by saying that extremism, radicalisation, terrorism are not issues that are taken lightly by someone here. So, in the coming weeks, we are putting together useful measures to combat terrorism, and at the same time how we can expand and continue prevention and de-radicalisation measures, particularly in the school sector, especially among young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1922	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1943	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen in the galleries and in front of the TV screens! The theme of this current hour is ‘Security police measures to combat possible terrorist activities in the face of threats in Europe’. We Socialists are behind all measures to protect Austrians from terrorism and to fight it consistently and to strongly support a means, above all: prevention, which Colleague Himmelbauer has now also addressed. In this context, of course, I would also like to thank colleagues, the police and the police for their efforts, especially those who were able to arrest the potential hazard in Graz on the basis of their investigations. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] The basis for these investigations and for these activities was the Police State Protection Act, which we were able to decide after almost two years of negotiations. And these negotiations were often very divergent, very controversial. As Mr Sobotka and Mr Amon have already pointed out, we have looked at the international level, in two countries, Switzerland and Norway, a survey with international experts and put together and balanced everything possible in terms of interests, because one is always in the foreground: on the one hand, the protection of the citizens of Austria, on the other hand, but also the protection of the citizens of Austria. In the end, however, it was successful with 1. In July 2016, a good law with good measures will enter into force. At the time, my colleague Fazekas has already brought into the discussion that this law is the legal answer to the fact that a suitable instrument has been created in particular for the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, and, among other things, two objectives must also be met: to prevent the re-admission of people who are vulnerable to terrorism and to protect potential goals more effectively. That's what he brought into the discussion at the time. According to § 1 of this Act, police protection serves to protect the population from terrorist threats. This created an appropriate legal basis for these challenges, and in this context I should also like to remind you that at that time FPÖ and Greens jointly challenged this before the Constitutional Court and called themselves an emergency community. At that time, Mr Rosenkranz, in the discussion, his party, i.e. the FPÖ, expressed serious constitutional concerns about this law, which we decided at the time, only ÖVP and SPÖ in common. Furthermore, it does not see in it a constitutional legal protection, especially in the case of investigations by the so-called confidants, who can also be used. He sees them as unconstitutional and not so deposited in the law. From: Today, interested people can still look at FPÖ TV an interesting contribution about this scandalal law and take a picture of what FPÖ had in mind at that time. The VfGH took place on 30.11. This year its judgment was published and all the requests made were either rejected or rejected. Mr Federal Minister, you have requested further measures today. Many negotiations have also taken place, with colleagues Otto Pendl, with colleagues Amon who were very, very good, and at that time a good law was found, now valid. However, the basis is still: Security needs confidence, but also confidence that all measures to protect the population are not directed against the population. A monitoring of the entire car traffic by the Asfinag does not make sense, there are so many data collected, and no one can ultimately evaluate it. Another point is the longer time limits for the storage of video surveillances: Is this good for the protection of the population? If further action is needed because the situation is changing again, the SPÖ is always ready for serious negotiations. Especially in a year when we're 150 years old. birthday of the Austrian state law, but I can also celebrate the impressive tradition of fundamental rights In Austria, mention is made of the fact that there is no overrun and no non-target measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, together we fight the terrorist threat, we support our police with the best conditions and with the best protective equipment and we support all measures for prevention! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2019	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2040	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Lueger, I thank you for the kindness that you have quoted me, and I can already congratulate you for talking first about the Austrians living safely in Austria. – I discover a kind of new nationalism with you, to which I particularly congratulate you. We thought that it should actually be possible for all people in Austria to live safely, but please. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, it is the State's task to ensure the security of citizens. For several years now, there has been a new threat picture: Terrorists; I would rather say dog-general murderers who kill involuntarily and bestial people, children, women, men, whether in the Middle East, in Asia, in the USA or in Europe – and thank God not yet in Austria, but the question of the threat cannot be turned by hand and cannot be taken lightly. These criminals are acting in the supposedly higher order of a God or religion, which one also has to address, I have so far failed. This is specifically Islam, which can be interpreted and, unfortunately, interpreted in the direction of the justification of murder of other believers. Although these attacks directed at individuals in principle, which are to ultimately meet the state as a whole, must be taken into consideration, prevention must be avoided, this must be fought at all levels. This has already been initiated, the framework of an educational offensive on deradicisation programmes in the judiciary et cetera. But at the heart of this is still the police for the state power – I now formulate it as a term. It must prevent and clarify. It can no longer be the case, therefore, that disagreement in a federal government with regard to borders leads to terrorists entering the territory of the Republic of Austria without control. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Police state protection is in a field of tension. Fundamental and freedom rights – 150 years old – have already been mentioned and the question of the investigation of crimes has been raised. A small example of this field of tension: There are parents who say my child has a prepaid card and I am not interested in my child being “snipped out” under quotes. On the other hand, we know that criminals – and there are just these terrorists – are serving the prepaid cards. That means there's a balance of interest. The Constitutional Court, Mrs Lueger – as in other points – has clearly defined the framework for this balance of interests when this is possible. If there is the method that intervenes, the legal protection must be appropriate. But our foreign exchange is that you should not go into the width, but always into the depth. In case of initial suspicion, the appropriate methods shall be applied under strict judicial supervision. With regard to the extension of legal protection, 150 years after the introduction of the basic law, the question arises of how to better involve Parliament, democracy and Members. The investigation methods planned are very often referred to as toys for the police. This can only be said by those who generally have no special trust in our police as a whole. At this point it is said: Police are state servants, they work for the Republic, and there must be no general suspicion against the Austrian police that they are all, in principle or because it may be fun for them at night. This mental reservation against the police must have no place with us. It is an important component and must therefore be supported and should not be suspected. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have – Christmas markets, which has already been mentioned – the pictures from Berlin in front of us where children, women and men were killed. In view of these pictures, we must ensure that people are protected especially during this time – but not only at this time, but always. Yes, it is about protecting our freedom, but not only freedom in the sense of fundamental and freedom rights, but in fact also freedom in connection with life, health, property et cetera. These fundamental rights have our citizens. Even the terrorist, the prospective terrorist has a freedom, and he has the freedom, of his action, of his action, of his plan, whatever moves him to distance himself and not to implement it. If he does, then this terrorist has only one freedom, and it reaches the inside of his cell door.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2113	The next item is the report by Mr Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2135	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Security police measures to combat possible terrorist activities in the face of the threat in Europe’, which is the title of this current hour. I have now listened to the speeches, can also share a number of them, but on some points I cannot go along or lack basics. Mr Rosenkranz, when I hear you see this subject, I notice: They speak here for 5 minutes and do not mention a single European point of view. [[Abg. Rosary: I would have liked to talk longer, but had no more time!]] This is a limitation in thinking and acting on one of the two future government parties I consider negligent. You need to widen your eye here. If Europe already exists in the title of the question and you still do not find the bridge to come here on European levers in the debate on the subject, then I am seriously concerned. [[Abg. Rosary: Don't need it!]] The point is, Mr Rosenkranz, dear FPÖ, that the terrorists have no limits. There are some examples of this: The Bataclan assassins came to Paris by car from Brussels. Anis Amri – yes, he was known. We see the need to strengthen security police measures. Amri was known, but it was obviously not under control in Germany. The wiredrivers of the Barcelona attack traveled across Europe several times. And now you're feeding the fantasy by saying, We pull a barbed wire around Austria and everything remains good! I think this is negligent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Let me therefore draw up three points which I consider to be very central, including, in particular, with regard to the next Austrian Federal Government. First: It needs, Minister of State Sobotka, a network of European police and intelligence authorities. I know a lot has happened in recent years. I remember: Last year we had the status that out of 28 EU countries had registered seven in the jihadist database, the others refused. Some things have happened, but we are not yet there where we need to be, in order to be able to say that we have a common Europe here that protects us. We have this vision NEOS – a Europe that protects us – and this vision also has others. Macron, for example, has her. There are state rulers, heads of government who express this vision and act in accordance with this vision. That is why we need to expand the exchange of data, we need to expand the transfer of knowledge, but we also need to expand the pooling of resources. – That saves people’s lives! If we don't do that, we'll take part in the elimination of human life in the next few years. So first point: Networking of the European Police and Secret Service Authorities. Second point: The best protection against terrorism is not to let it arise at all. This is obvious: Prevention work! There's a lot we can do internationally. I would like to see a well-equipped European Union de-radicalisation centre lacking the commitment of the Member States, which would also be a field of activity for the next government. And, of course, we can and must also set priorities nationally – and here we look very closely at what the next government wants to do. The breeding site of radicalization is a bad educational policy. That's it! The personal motivation of every terrorist is based on a structural disorder he has experienced in his life. I claim: With the education policy you are currently describing, you continue to promote the division of society. With your education policy, you will continue to expand the focus schools in Austria – and of course will They flee with many others in private schools, which is probably why you don't care, but they transport the division of the population, and this is a breeding site of radicalization. We must counter this – as well as, of course, a committed integration policy that has not yet been implemented. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Last point: Of course, we need the European Union not only in security police measures, but also in military measures. Terrorism is a form of decentralised warfare in the 21st century. We must look at it and act accordingly: not only with police, but also with military! It was decided this Monday in the circle of Foreign Minister Pesco, the expansion of military cooperation. And if, at the end of May, Madam President, the Austrian Foreign Minister once again fails to reach this agreement, personally is not present there, then I miss the right priority. As a European citizen, I want a Europe that protects me, and I also expect this prioritisation from my next Chancellor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2212	The next item is Mrs Zadić's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2230	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers at the gallery and in front of the screens at home! For me, the Austrian Parliament has always been at the heart of Austrian democracy. It therefore fills me with great joy and great respect that I can speak here today – a fact that is not of course due to my biography at Weitem, so I would also like to take the opportunity of thanking all those who have accompanied and supported me on this path. A warm thank you! [[We welcome the Pilz list as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] The important issue of security to which I am speaking today has accompanied me since my childhood. I was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a country which experienced a brutal war in the early 1990s, so believe me, if I say, I know what it means not to feel safe! It was important for my parents and parents of many other refugees at the time to offer their children a secure future, to see them grow up in a land that is free and that their rights and their freedoms are not trampled on. Security is a basic need. Yes, we want to be sure, but above all: We also want to feel safe! It is therefore necessary that we face the real and the subjective threat and also take care of security in our country. The fear of citizens is closely linked to the trust of the people in the rule of law. It is therefore our task, as politicians, to fight for the rule of law and thus to ensure security. To ensure security, however, does not mean a free pass for the arbitrary restriction of our freedom and our rights. I am thinking, above all, of the unscrupulous handling and the way in which the people's security needs and fears were aroused in the campaign, as has been tried to restrict our freedom and fundamental rights in favour of an apparent security over and over again. [[Abg. Höbart: Ajajaj!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Höbart.]] At this point I would like to recall the demand for a comprehensive video surveillance of all citizens. Targeted video surveillance is quite useful, but a comprehensive video surveillance results in all of us feeling constantly observed, and without occasion. The introduction of the Federal Trojan could also experience a comeback in the new future government. By exploiting security gaps of our smartphones, it is believed that terrorist threats can be avoided. However, the introduction of the Federal Trojan does not lead to protecting us from the well-organised terrorist networks, but leads to all of us being observed. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures do not bring any more decisive security. We should, however, give up a piece of our freedom and our rights. For a supposed security we will not allow a surveillance state from the Pilz list. [[In the list of mushrooms, as well as the Abg. Jarolim.]] It is our job to protect freedom and not to restrict it. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== “He who gives up freedom of security will lose both.” . We from the Pilz list will therefore protect both freedom and security, and we will be the control party in Parliament, which the future government will look closely at. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] I will personally work to ensure that our citizens' freedoms and rights are not restricted and that we are all not only sure, but also secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2298	The next item is the speech by Mr Dönmez. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2319	High Bureau! Mr Sobotka! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As the founder of the European Citizens' Initiative against Extremism, I personally have a very great concern to address any form of extremism, whether politically or religiously motivated, and to point out and, of course, push back, because extremism, in whatever form, threatens our open society. My previous speakers, whom I have listened closely, have said all the right things, and I also believe that from the security perspective, we must give the executive all the opportunities to fight extremism and extremists. However, the discussion can also be seen that we have only those on the radar on the political side, but also on the part of the security authorities, which we have considered to be violent; but those that we do not have on the political radar, those that our authorities do not have on the radar, are those who, under the word of legalist Islamism, prepare the breeding ground for extremism. It is quite, very important that we highlight this and also address it. Missionary organizations from the Gulf States are pursuing a longer-term strategy of influencing our society. In the field of economics and finance, a largely disregarded Islamization – e.g., hallal banking or Halalbanking – has long been under way behind the back of the public. The investors from the Middle East have a huge political power, which they can also develop against Western democracies. With their petrodollars in billions, they buy in all the economies, and they also buy political power. We Austrians always have to keep in mind that our prosperity is largely achieved abroad via export, but this export to and this economic cooperation with the Gulf States is different than if we do business with the USA, China or Russia, because there is a longer-term strategy of influencing our societies, namely the strategy to influence our societies through religious foundations, through state and half-state foundations. It does not come about that the Minister and all the other previous speakers have taken the word Salafists into their mouths in a large number of ways. Who's funding then? The one? – We need to focus much more on this question. If we want to fight extremism seriously and not only with lip confessions, then we have to see the financiers in the background, then we have to show those who sponsor and finance it and dry it. It is all the more important that we take a close look at the huge blackbox there, whether it be in the financing of foundations, whether it be in the financing of various clubs, but we also have to look at the Islam law again and make adaptations there so that we can remove these radical currents from the soil. We know that, for example, Salafist groups from abroad are in close contact with Austrian Salafist groups. Sometimes they are in Malaysia, sometimes they are in the Gulf States, sometimes they are in Germany, Switzerland or Austria and they form an association under the respective association law. The poor cop: He comes and imposes a hundred euro punishment. They laugh at us. None of them take it seriously. That is why it is important that we call these networks very clearly that, in the sense of our social peace, we conduct the discussions as differentiated as possible and distinguish between religion and political instrumentalization, for it is only a very, very small part, which is extremist and radical, and therefore we need politicians to conduct the discussions differentiated. It is important that there is a ban on the entry of Salafists, that mosques in which hatred sermons take place must be immediately closed and that there are adaptations to the law of the foundation, to the law of the association, but partly to the Islam law. It is also important that there is better coordination not only between the security devices BAT and LVT and the countries, but also with the financial offices, because it is an important and essential task to dry the sources of finance. If we do this together, we have already won very, very much in the fight against extremism, but by then it is still a wider way. It is important, as has been said, that we focus much more on the drying of financial sources. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2370	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2392	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I do not fully understand the meaning of today's debate, because we have just passed a law on state protection, in which we have also planned to finally increase the resources for the police. [[call to the FPÖ]] For 18 years now, the Ministry of the Interior has been led by the ÖVP, and after we have recently intensified everything, we have also received the ideas that you have given us back here today, Minister of the Interior, from the whole specialist world – that was the Chamber of Law, that was the universities, that was the President of the Constitutional Court – as completely unthinkable for a fundamental rule of law, as nonsense. And that's over the back door now. You can believe us, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of combating terrorism, no one is opposed, no one wants to endanger the security of anyone in the country, but this package is now subcutaneous. I have always admired the FPÖ in the discussion that it has also recognized and rejected this, so I wonder a bit about Mr Rosenkranz, who speaks of slight steps, as though he understands that this is now suddenly coming back across the back door. I have another suspicion, namely that this is nothing but a mist, a distraction from other things that are unpleasant and which I think are actually inconceivable, e.g. when you start this government program by reversing the ban on smoking. [[Call the ÖVP:For business!]] If the President says on his own that this is an attack on all Austrians and, of course, on other people, when we hear it, ladies and gentlemen, that there are only more headaches in the St. Anna Children's Hospital – a size that we all know – and if it's nice slowly in one area or another, politicians say: Friends, that's impossible, you can't do that!, then I think that this has to happen clearly so that you can divert from it by holding a scam debate on something that we all want in the end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hauser: The security...!]] There are children's money, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing that everyone should get the best possible training regardless of their social position, which starts in the kindergarten. – I read here: Children's allowance instead of kindergartens in Lower Austria; between 12 and 14 o'clock all kindergartens are allowed. [[Abg. Little: thematic failure!]] [[Call the ÖVP:... Not at all!]] I look at how those ladies who need work can put their children there in kindergarten at the conditions – the next madness! And if, in the future, working time is to be twelve hours a day – which you can reasonably make under certain conditions, but this should now be regulated at the operational level – then we all know that there is an immeasurable repressive potential and that in the future we will have workers who cannot help but fulfill this wish. I am excited how the FPÖ will present itself in this context. [[Abg. Rosary: Super!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Very good!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's like this: Mr Sobotka then began these considerations by telling us about a most personal incident. By setting up cameras in his garden, he succeeded in disposing of excrements in his garden. Now I would say that it was very successful, Minister, I congratulate you on this strategic implementation, but it cannot be because of the trauma you have apparently suffered, which will now be more or less of a concept for all of us. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of the SPÖ as well as cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] We do not need a trauma, but we need reason, and it certainly arises in the discussions in which the lawyers have participated in which the experts in the courts and prosecutors have participated and have explained that your ideas, Mr Sobotka, are impracticable that this is not feasible and that we limit ourselves to fundamental rights where it makes no sense at all. [[Call at the ÖVP: The missing...!]] That's something I'm appealing to you now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] I was surprised that there was also Justice Minister Brandstetter; I did not fully recognize the university professor there. I also sent this to Germany because I wanted to talk to experts because I originally wanted to support some of the ideas, and they asked me if a lawyer had worked on this paper. – This is from the Ministry of Justice! It was embarrassing to me, and I said, No, that was the vice chancellor! But you can believe me if such a decision comes from there, then it can only be alarming for us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I say one last sentence: The Foreign Minister and future Chancellor, who is not here today, has always stated loud and loud that he wants to implement exactly the considerations presented by Mr Sobotka. . I would like to call Mr Kurz: He is a member of the University of Vienna, he has such responsibility, and also as a student he needs to know that these things are not fundamental; I want to write this to him in the main book. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker]] I can tell him if he doesn't know: There is a lecture, which is held on Thursday at 6 p.m. in the lecture hall III, which means: [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Loacker]] Fundamental rights protection in a responsible world. – That would be good for him, and that would be good for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2591	Mr Mag. Günther Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2615	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! ==References====External links== December, the Islamic assassin Anis Amri shot the Polish forwarder of a saddle train, robbed the saddle train and directed the vehicle to the crowd on the Christmas market near the Kaiser-Wilhelm Memorial Church in Berlin at about 8 pm. He killed eleven visitors, 55 were severely injured. The culprit initially managed to escape; however, he was put in Italy and, after opening the fire to the Italian police, he was shot. What has changed visibly since then? – In front of the Federal Chancellor's Office at Ballhausplatz, there is now sunk Poller, over which the Federal Chancellor has already stumbled, and on the shopping mile there is obviously only a terrorist danger on the weekend, because only on the weekend concrete pollers, not too large, are placed there. But Austria is still subject to radical Islamists, Salafists, Al-Qaeda supporters and Islamists. My home city of Graz is a stronghold of radical Islamism, and a proof of this is the arrest of a 25-year-old Bosnian on 1st. December, which obviously planned an attack on the Christmas market in Graz, similar to in Berlin. The State Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism was informed that this man had glorified and praised terrorist videos on which attacks were to be seen, and because of this indication he was able to capture the perpetrator. I also use this opportunity to thank the police as a whole because it has to work with inadequate craftsmanship and still provides excellent services. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For years now, we have been warning liberals against radical Islamist drive-overs – the arrested Bosnian has also repeatedly visited a rear court mosque in Graz – and now we are debating security police measures for the defence of terrorism. – This debate should have been a serious one years ago. The result of the work In our opinion, the government is inadequate, for still constitutionalists warn that eleven out of 20 Graz mosques are considered radical, but none of these mosques have been closed so far. Radical Islamist religious teachers continue to be warned in Styria, but the financing of the Graz Grand Mosque is still carried out by a mysterious donor from the United Arab Emirates, a country in which the Sharia, in which homosexuality is threatened with the death penalty and violence against women is almost impunity. We believe that measures have been decided by the government, which are more important to this – I am now saying it is hard – to spread sand to the people, rather than to offer them real protection. If we want to stop terrorist activities by means of security police measures, we must act decisively. If we take over the responsibility for freedom of government, that means that there are really more police plan agencies, that there are also really more police in the public; uniformed police can be seen again and will also deter potential attackers or restrict them in their freedom of movement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] There will also be real border controls again – yes, Mr Strolz, terrorism knows no limits, so we will do it. It will also be necessary to finally make laws in such a way that they are not only stupid weapons, but also suitable to effectively combat any form of terrorism, fanaticism and Islamism. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has chosen, a clear majority has opted for a change of course, and we liberals will remain in the mouth of voters and ensure that one of the most pressing tasks of the state, namely the protection of its population, is actually fulfilled. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2679	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2700	Madam President. Federal Minister! The essential question, when the EIA puts a security policy issue on the agenda, is always whether we have a serious discourse and consider how we can achieve more security without giving up our fundamental freedoms, or whether it is, at the end of the day, more like a populist symbolic policy debate. I must admit that parts of the speeches on the part of the ÖVP have already had serious approaches, but at the end of the day you have managed to do what you almost always do in the debate – and I must congratulate you that you have remained faithful, in contrast to the ban on smoking, where you are now obviously falling – and have made a state of law and freedom debate from a security debate, because in about 90 percent of your proposals you must always be afraid of the rule of law in Austria and fear of our rights of freedom. Because the Police State Protection Act has already been addressed – both by Mr Amon and Mrs Lueger as well as by Mr Jarolim, whom I find more exciting than as a member of the opposition group, because there is more fundamental rights sensitivity – and it has been said that the Constitutional Court has confirmed this as a constitutional form: That's right, you always have to read the entire knowledge. He also says very explicitly that these methods of investigation are only constitutional if they are particularly closely interpreted. That is, you, SPÖ and ÖVP together, have passed a law that we have to interpret far more rigorously than the legislative text is, in fact, so that the VfGH says it is just constitutional. You always have to say that. And in addition, it's funny if you're just celebrating that you once have a constitutional law in this context, because otherwise it's actually the case that the VfGH throws everything back on you. We recall the data storage of stocks: The ÖVP wanted to introduce this large, urgently, in the fight against terrorism – you used it for quite different things; we remind you of requests: not a single query of the stock data due to a terrorist crime, but because of everything else. Now you have a law that is constitutional – I congratulate you. It is important that we do not again adopt loud, careless laws, which at the end are not constitutional. Mr Federal Minister, if you address the Federal Trojan: You know that this won't happen because it's technically impossible to access the phone so that you don't access the entire cell phone. I hope that the FPÖ will be able to do so. Mr Rosenkranz, you have been personally written into the main book, including colleagues Stefan: Stay by your line, see that you protect fundamental rights here! I do not hope for the ÖVP at all, because I know that this does not matter to those in this context. [[Abg. Rosary: No, that's not true!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is yours alone, and you will also be measured whether you are now in contact with the Federal Trojan and then play with the monitoring party ÖVP or have seriously meant it with the fundamental rights. I really hope for you and hope you stay there. It is important that we continue to perceive freedom and the rule of law as something important and not somehow as problematic, annoying obstacles – that is what I always see a little bit at the time of the ÖVP; it is always these obstacles – and we need to look at them in this context – and that is the difficult thing about such measures that you sometimes propose – that the important security issues do not stay on track. I'm right you mentioned this today. It is quite a matter of prevention, you are perfectly right, and there are also the measures important; and it is quite a matter of mass, and I also support that we provide the police with much more resources here, because it is also clear that no more laws catch criminals, but more police. We know that because of the overtime marathon, the police have been heavily affected in their work lately, and it is good that we have taken action there. It's about more personnel resources, it's about better equipment, and it's about prevention. In conclusion, because two days ago we celebrated 150 years of state law and heard a very impressive talk by Professor Stourzh: He said that it is now more than ever important, especially in times of Viktor Orbán, who has almost proclaimed illiberal democracy in Hungary, to oppose this illiberal democracy. He has said that the concept of liberalism is perhaps a bit too broad, and that is why he has put the concept of fundamental democracy here in space. He says that Austria is such a fundamental right democracy, and I am convinced that Austria must remain such a fundamental right democracy, and I therefore appeal here to you, in particular to ÖVP and FPÖ, that you also clearly acknowledge that we in Austria continue to protect freedom and fundamental rights and do not sacrifice them at the altar of populism. I honestly don't care if H.-C. Just the better friend of Viktor Orbán is or Sebastian Kurz; I expect both of them to take a model not for Viktor Orbán, but for all of us in Austria it is clear that it is not the illiberal democracy that we want, but a strong and defensive fundamental rights democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2748	The next item is the speech by Mr Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2769	Madam President. High house! Dear guests at the gallery! So I would have been very surprised if the ÖVP had been able to switch from electoral mode to working mode within a few weeks. What we are experiencing here is to end a delicate, important subject in turn populist and comparatively demagogical. Mr Scherak and Mr Jarolim have said essential things, I will not repeat that, but three things, I believe, are already very important. First: Everyone and everyone in the room is opposed to terrorism, and it is not the question whether we want to fight terrorism, but the importance of the problem of terrorism and the means we use here. Yes, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure security; yes, of course, the monopoly of violence should lie with the state, but one must free the subject of terrorism from the hybrid of the security discussion which is being pursued here again and again. In fact, we have security problems in Austria, but this is not terrorism at first, but the security problems we have in Austria are for the majority of the population who relate to the safety of the workplace, to the security of housing and to the resulting problems in the education, health and social field. These are the real security problems in Austria. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The year 2015 was indeed an incision in the Republic of Austria, but it was not so much an incision on security, but it was an incision on the security of the Austrians; and the multiple state organizational failure in 2015, which led to the ÖVP and its ministers and not the refugee movement per se. This is what we need to deal with now. If we ask what makes you feel secure in Austria, then you have to say, too, that is a social and not primarily police task. Certainly, people who have confidence that their needs will be satisfied in the future and that they can pursue their interests, and that has comparatively little to do with police work. I would like to take to heart what I have heard now and believe that the ÖVP actually has an interest in security in Austria, only the actual security problems are not debated here. Every 20 hours the traffic on Austria's roads is calling for death victims, in 2016 432 people died on Austrian roads; and with some speeches from the ÖVP you might almost think, you're sorry that there are no victims of terrorism in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: such nonsense! Shit!]] In fact, because of a lack of security policy, there are many, many victims in Austria, and when we look at how many people die every day in household and leisure accidents, when we look at how many work accidents there are in Austria, it turns out to be a very clear language. [[Abg. Small: How many accidents at work?]] No human is against the fact that we're equiping the police to work properly. We are very much in favour of improving the working conditions of the police in Austria; they have very poor working conditions after many, many years of ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior. We want a better reward for police officers in this country, we want better education, and we also want their social status to rise by it. The answer to the threatened and impaired sense of security of the Austrians is not new monitoring laws, but an actual continuous work in the relationship between executive and society. I hope, like Mr Jarolim, that the FPÖ will remain strong on this point. She has had the right smell there when she says that there are inadmissible restrictions on the freedom of Austrian citizens. We will see whether it will continue in the course of coalition and government formation. I hope so!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2844	Mr Sobotka was the last to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2865	High house! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. A few things still to be clear: As far as the relationship between Austria and Europe is concerned, I believe Austria has always been a pioneer in international data exchange. We were the first to extend the Prüm Treaty to those countries in the Balkans who did not belong to the European Union. In terms of data exchange, no matter in which area – whether that is the data stored in the Schengen Information System, whether that is the data exchange possible by the Police Cooperation Agreement in terms of risk database – we are always ready to exchange these European data, because we can gain substantial insights through this data exchange. We currently have the PNR data regulation in implementation; Entry exit was once again discussed by Austria at European level, especially at the European Council; Etias; and finally the biometric data in the Schengen Information System. We have been very intensively involved in the RAN network, where Europe is also very active in the area of deradicalisation. Best-practice examples: For two years there has been a terrorist breakfast before each Council of Ministers, a meeting at ministerial level, in which the best practice examples of the individual This is the first time that the European Union has been able to play its Austria is always present with individual examples, even to compare them with others. That is to say, the European component plays a very important role in this. So was the Foreign Minister when the agreement on Pesco was signed on 13.11. ==References== This means, of course, that we are not just a cooperation at the internal ministerial level, but also a cooperation on a military basis. For what is now coming down to the need for extra-cost programmes to be decided, it will also require a new Council of Ministers decision. The statement that it no longer needs laws, but more personnel, I would like to resist: Discuss with our cops! We arrest them continuously, the next day or in the next few hours they will be released because the grounds for arrest in the case of theft or other corresponding violations of laws committed in series are not sufficient. Talk to the people outside who are affected by such crimes on the spot! It will be necessary to introduce new legal provisions, particularly in the area of addiction crime and drug use, so that we can fight this crime seriously at the root. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is necessary that we continue in encrypted communication. I am very much aware of humorous deposits that deserve the applause of the scene; I believe only that terrorism and the danger posed by extremism should be discussed at a very, very serious level. States such as Spain, France, Belgium, Great Britain, Italy, the Czech Republic, Portugal, Romania, Estonia already have appropriate regulations, nine other European countries are considering their introduction in order to be able to decipher messenger services as well. Germany and the Macron quoted by you go much further than any proposal that was finally brought here by us. This shows: If we want to remain in the European Union at the end of the day, that may be the case. In this situation it is for us, I believe, a need to give police control of those laws which they effectively support in their work. It's not about a law for the sake of the law. Just eight days before the 150th anniversary of the basic state law, which is here on the 21st century. In 1867, these measures were introduced and established in order to protect these freedoms, because extremism and terrorism, as many speakers stress, are at risk of such freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2926	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Can’t another minister report, just like that?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Live parliamentaryism must endure this!]] [[11:25:32]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2969	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3413	Let's go into the agenda. A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 46, SPÖ and FPÖ per 41, NEOS and list mushroom per 14 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:26:32]] 1. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christian Kern, colleagues in a federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (5/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3461	We come to item 1 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. The word first receives the applicant Bundeskanzler Mag. Core. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3488	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. As you know, the current daily policy is determined by that we are in the middle of the formation of a new federal government. This new federal government will present a programme and we will measure it in terms of action, we will look at it very closely. But we will also measure them by the promises and expectations that have been awakened. Even if one cannot over-estimate newspaper coverage, there seems to be an absolute race to give a record of how to break the announced promises as thoroughly and quickly as possible. What we're experiencing is a Rodeo of Steps. One of our most important points in the last legislative period was that we have tried to change economic policy by trying to actively resist where it is necessary and, in particular, to take up the fight against unemployment. Under this pre-text, the action came about 20 000. The background to action 20 000 is that Austria has outstanding economic growth. It's not been as good as it has been since a decade. The OECD recently announced to us 3 percent economic growth for 2017 and also gave us a positive outlook for the following years. One of the positive aspects of this is that unemployment has fallen significantly in line with the forecasts. However, we have seen that over the past year, unemployment in the segment of people over 50 years has not declined. In the last two months, we have also made a trend change in this target group, the first time in years, the unemployment of over 50 year olds is falling. What is the reason for this development? – There are several explanations: Of course, it is the positive export markets, of course it is the skilled workers and workers, and of course it is also the skilled entrepreneurs. It is also true, however, that the active economic policy to which we have decided had a significant share in it. We have consistently expanded our investments to a record level of more than EUR 5 billion this year, we have consistently promoted innovations, but we have also consistently taken care of the fight against unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also tell you why we did this: because it was important for us not to watch where the market fails. I can tell you that there is some sort of unemployment in Austria that does not regulate entrepreneurs, which does not regulate the market. This usually affects older people who may still have a health restriction in one form or another. To wait for them to be taken up by companies is an illusion that works in a Europe of open borders and free movement of workers, of course, that is proven. That is why it is so important that we have this action, which is why the continuation is so important to us, not only because we are talking about improving statistics, but also about the fates behind it. We have decided to give 20 000 people a future perspective, not just an income. It's 20 000 times respect, it's 20 000 dignity, and it's about 20 000 future prospects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be most harmful and heartless if we put the door in front of the nose to these people and say: Look where you're staying! This is not necessary either, because the OECD and the Wifo have only just given us the opportunity to look forward to economic development in Austria. If the next Federal Government does not attack what one might wish for, then we will already have a budget surplus in 2019. We will experience that the tax and tax rate decreases subsequently, and we will experience that government debt falls significantly below the previously suspected horizons and will fall below the 70 percent level. [[Abg. Wöger: Wonderful!]] This is gratifying, and that means that the next federal government will put itself in a made bed. To quote a well-known journalist: It has meant that these are ideal conditions for a imaginative and serious federal government to shape the country. We know from the media, but we also see from the presence here in the House that negotiations are taking place again during these hours on the next German government. A “conclave ” takes place, I read in today’s newspaper. A conclave usually ends with white smoke, we know this conclave will end with blue smoke. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ÖVP and FPÖ are all serious about tipping the ban on smoking. I can only say that Kurt Kuch, a journalist also known in this circle, who died of lung cancer, once formulated: ‘Smooth kills. It was the worst decision of my life to start smoking.” He has started an action to enforce the non-smokers' bid, and has experienced much political support, including from the circle of the ÖVP. Also the Bundesobmann of the ÖVP was one of the supporters, Sebastian Kurz has put himself in public and is aware of these concerns. It is disappointing that this is now being reversed in a zigzag course, which is responsible for the health of Austrians. 13 000 people die from the effects of tobacco consumption, each lung specialist can calculate and calculate what suffering this brings about the majority of people. It is disappointing that the lobbys were placed behind them – behind the interests of the tobacco industry, behind the interests of the host – and not on the protection of workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] I find it remarkable that a future Federal Government is here with a policy that is obviously unreasonable and against the interests of the Austrian women. I find it extremely encouraging and very encouraging that civil society is already forming itself. On this morning, the petition holds 165,000 signatures against this procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that there are still many, many more. I must honestly say that I can slow down the idea of expanding direct democracy, strengthening popular desire. I am convinced that one of the first popular desires you will reap will be one of the civil society against lifting the ban on smoking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, we will continue to deal intensively with your programme and your proposals that lead us back to the past next week. I can only tell you at this time that we are going to resist here in this House, and today is the confirmation of this. It will not only happen here in this House, but also the people in Austria, civil society, will not be able to offer it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3567	The next item is the speech by Mr Nehammer, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3585	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of this House! Dear visitors to the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me a personal word, I may speak here in the House for the first time. I used to be in politics behind the scenes, first in federal politics, later in national and municipal politics, many mayors and parishioners were allowed to accompany. I am now back in federal politics and can stand here and participate in the parliamentary process, the legislative process. I can only say that it is a great feeling, I look forward to the task and go to her with respect and gratitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have raised a very serious issue: Age unemployment is something that politicians must be particularly close to us, especially when talking to delegates from the regions, when the people concerned come to the speaking hours and express their suffering. There is a commitment, all of us, I believe, that work is important to man, giving dignity, allowing a self-determined life. In my view, what is important and what will also be clarified in the Committee is the question of whether good is actually good in the interests of those concerned. What do I mean by that? – The employee, who is now enjoying the 20 000 action, is finally allowed to work again and can, as it were, often face the challenge of having a final date for these promoted jobs. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know from the talks with the mayors: The communities are pleased with every helping hand that doesn't cost them anything even in their sparse budget. But the question is: What's going on? Ladies and gentlemen! I was told that if I give my first speech and there are calls of call, then you listen to me. – A warm thank you for that! If we consider whether it would be more sensible to use the funds for qualification measures, for integration management in the first labour market, towards a perspective for people, then good is meant for good. I think it is valuable to think about it and also in the committee to get the best ideas. Finally, allow me to say one last word: Mr Loacker looks so friendly at me here, we met recently in virtual space, where I supported a comment from a friend. He said: I hope Nehammer comes. in my committees, then I will rub the fact that he has represented him under the nose of each committee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see, my nose is not too small, this is an ambitious undertaking, but, Mr Loacker, what I am really looking forward to is that, together in the committee around this more, we are getting the better idea. What I'd like to promise you here: I will do it with appreciation and at eye level. If we then work together to make something good for those concerned – for the workers in this country who are supposed to have a right to live a self-determined, dignified life – from which we can make this the most beautiful expression of parliamentary democracy. I am looking forward to this joint work.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3653	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3674	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mr Nehammer's comments. All these people who are now in long-term unemployment, i.e. have not found a job for more than 12 months – there are just over 50 000 in Austria – are parked at the AMS, and all these people have already completed these qualification measures. All these people have tried to find a job on their own initiative. We know many examples, such as that of a long-term unemployed woman from Vienna, who sent 137 applications, has already tried everything in terms of qualification measures: No single application was successful, and only one third of these applications received a reply at all. This shows that one needs to do a little more than qualify, so this employment action is 20 000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We agreed very closely and carefully with the ÖVP: We have launched this pilot project 20 000 for long-term unemployed 50 plus in 11 districts. After five months, 1,537 people have managed to get into a job. The letters we receive in this regard are quite positive. These people say thank you for having a job again, thank you for being able to afford something, thank you for having more importance in society again, and therefore it is important not only to observe this model further, but also to expand it. That is exactly what our Federal Chancellor has always said and what has already confirmed itself after just five months of piloting. The most beautiful example comes from the Voitsberg district: Long-term unemployment 50 plus has been reduced by 45 percent over this model – by 45 percent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I thank all the communities and all the non-profit associations that give these people the opportunity to find a job again. I'm telling you, too. The indefinite continuation of this 20 000 employment action is guaranteed, so that there is certainty for those who offer jobs for these people that this was not just a short-term action, but that it continues. I would also like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who give us their views, which tell us in writing how they are doing. I call on everyone here in the House to continue to support these people. Employment Action 20 000 is good, it is expected, the people concerned say thank you, the communities benefit, and it is important, above all, that we deal with making the passive funds available from labour market support in good time. I would like to thank our Social Minister for the courage and stubbornness he has brought in to our Federal Chancellor and to all the others who have contributed to this project. Now it is important to expand it – not to brake it, but to pick up more speed and improve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3734	Next item is the report by Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3756	Mr Chancellor, you could also say what it is like! You could simply admit here and today that this action was a 20 000 election campaign. [[Abg. Arbitrator: You were the campaign gag!]] An election campaign so according to the motto of purchasing voters at voter's expense by picking out a group and taking an incredible amount of money into your hands to get additional voters to work – that's exactly what this action is! [[Abg. Jarolim: A nonsense...!]] If you don't believe this, you just have to listen to your own people: The AMS chief – your Mr. Buchinger! – has just said that. He said that this action makes no sense at all. [[Abg. Door: Your speech makes no sense!]] He also said that we could use this money much better to qualify people, because that's the problem. It is not true that these people could easily take a foothold on the labour market, but the problem is that most people are not qualified, and that is where you could start, but you don't want that. [[Abg. Jarolim: (showing towards FPÖ) Your own people...!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: The party of the little man!]] What you want is to save an election gift and continue with your socialist policy, although Austria has overcome socialism so successfully in this election. Socialism has done a lot of trouble in history – also in Austria. Now, after this election, we finally have the opportunity to leave socialism behind us and to make actual social policy, away from socialism and beyond your policy, which in truth has led us to have a social system that is very expensive, but whose achievements do not meet those who really need it. We have a system that works according to the principle of foundry, and those who actually need social benefits will be forgotten. We owe it to you! We also owe their socialism to the fact that in the past we have had a immigration policy that has brought us into the problems we see today. And we also owe to you that there is no integration and therefore there are all the problems we see every day, such as counterparts and parallel companies in Austria. You have – and here Vienna is the last bollwerk – always denied this development, and now we are facing the scrapping of your policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: I'm sure they'll exclude you soon!]] Now it is about leaving these decades of socialism behind us and setting up a better policy – that will be what we will do in the coming weeks and months – but I must admit that it will not be all easy. One cannot make up for so much misdevelopment within a short period of time. I can't. That is, we will certainly need a certain amount of time to bet all the mistakes made in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Mr. Chancellor, you have already threatened us today. They have already told us that the population will resist this new policy. I can imagine that very well. The Greens will probably become professional demonstrators now from professional politicians, that will certainly be so, and they will naturally fight against this new, this better path for Austria, as well as your frontal organizations from the Chamber of Labour to the union, and many others will do so even now, who also live by the state and ultimately do not want to see a change in this country. We need a better policy. We don't need socialist politics. We need a policy that places people at the centre, and this can only be done by a social home party that does not forget about its own people, just as you did. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Keck.]] What you have done was a client policy, and you have pumped a lot of money into the social system to give it to the wrong people, that is, those you choose, and not those who actually need it. – That’s the problem! And that's why: Yes, we will lead Austria to a new path, yes, Austria needs this new path, and we will do a lot different, but not everything. In any case, we'll do a lot of things better than you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3889	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker, for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3910	Madam President. High house! People who are looking for a job, people who want to work have earned our support in every respect, we have to do it with all possible means, with integration aid, with combination wages, with different things – but not with action 20 000, which was a misconception from the beginning! It starts with the fact that the AMS is not at all designed to communicate people on public service jobs, but rather to communicate people in companies. It goes on to say that the work in the communities is done. There we work well and carefully, the places have turned, the hedges are cut and the office activities are done cleanly – and where everything is done, 20 000 people are now being taught with this action! The consequences are different. It comes to the displacement: People who used to do this work on the job lose this job, or their own people no longer have this job, or they will divide the same work into several people. What does not happen, what does not happen by this action 20 000 per cent, is that any person is thereby transferred to the First Labour Market. [[Abg. Katzian: Not right!]] – That does not happen, but that would be the real goal! I thank my colleagues I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for the offer for cooperation, and I would also like to thank you, if the ÖVP carries out a swivel in this action 20 000 story. Austria has a particularly high share of long-term unemployed in international comparison. The risk of becoming long-term unemployed is higher in Austria than in other countries. We have to ask ourselves why this is so. There are, as always, several factors, but one of them is that there are only two EU countries with time-limited benefits from unemployment insurance, namely in Belgium and Austria, and these are going to be linear: First, you get unemployment benefit, then emergency aid – which is 92 to 95 percent of unemployment benefit – and this emergency aid can be obtained indefinitely; for example, people receive ten, 15, 20 years of emergency aid. Shortly before the National Council election, we have made this emergency aid even more extensive and generous in a national-social coalition, and we have the incentive to get back to work quickly, namely not even to become long-term unemployed, we have – you have! – it reduces. What is also striking is that in Austria – now that the economic upturn that the Federal Chancellor has mentioned – we have a lot of open spaces. We have 37 percent more open jobs this year than we did a year ago. What we can prove: In those districts where the 20 000 action is already under way, the number of job openings is slowing down. With the 20 000 action, you are withdrawing the labour market from the labour market that is needed. The action is therefore absolutely counterproductive. What is the reason for the 20 000 action? – Austria has fallen back on unemployment in the EU ranking. In 2013 we were in place 4, 2015 in place 6 and 2017 in place 9. The 20 000 action has the meaning of bugging the unemployed from the statistics and overshadowing the work of Minister Stöger, who was a disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3960	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3981	Madam President. Dear Seers! Dear colleagues! Mr Lugar, if you want to be a social spokesperson of the FPÖ, then it is a very bad job for the social home party, because not quite six months ago 20 000 people took a central and important labour market policy step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] The decline in unemployment is not everywhere and not the same across all ages: There is a reduction in unemployment by more than 7 percent in the number of up to 25 years of age or in the group of 25- to 49-year-olds. However, in the case of persons over 50 years of age who are unable to become indebted to work, there has been only a 2 percent reduction since last year. This opportunity to find employment, to gain their own income in order to gain a piece of security for the family and for themselves, to be able to live self-determined, gets people over 50 years of age to a much lower level than younger people. It is precisely this opportunity for security, but this opportunity for self-determination should also be given to these people. If the market fails and if the market does not allow people over 50 years of age to return to working life, to the labour market, then the public sector must intervene, and that is exactly what happened with this targeted action of action 20 000. I therefore fully support this action, which has already proved itself in the majority of model regions. Before this measure is adopted from 1. In January 2018, it is important to evaluate them throughout Austria, which is perfectly clear to me, but I find this to be irresponsible – I say this in the direction of colleagues Nehammer, but of course also by colleagues Wöginger –: I am really sorry to have to hear how in the election campaign the directions, the tendencies develop. How about standing up and proving backbone once again to those promises that were made? I want to use your words: The money is properly invested, because it is very difficult, de facto there is no opportunity for these people to take a foothold on the labour market. – You said that when the measure was decided, and now we are questioning all of this again? The question now is: Is this security also sustainable for these people or is it abolished by the new government? Is there this backbone and this sense of responsibility for this group of people also beyond the limits of the Coalition Agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ? – That’s the central question! By the way, I believe, of course, that this law should be evaluated, but it is our political responsibility that the horizon of our sense of responsibility, our sense of this group of people, does not end at the limits of alleged social coalition pacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4036	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign the request to the Financial Committee to be elected. [[11:54:11]] 2. Point First reading: Proposal by Mrs Angela Lueger, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 24 December 1989 was adopted. (7/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4075	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - I'll give it to her with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4102	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The carousel of the step back is expected to continue. It is true that social democracy has repeatedly tried to find a solution in this regard, and has also referred to the word of Mr Kurz, who, before the election – perhaps you could listen to me, Mr. Kurz, and not telephonize – said that the ÖVP – just like all of us – is of equal value to every child in Austria. They may recall the television debate on maintenance security, You too, Mr Kurz, have raised the 'Ja-Taferl' and you want every child in Austria to be of equal value and that we can guarantee a maintenance for all the children in Austria – because it is unfortunately not the case at present. Ladies and gentlemen, a maintenance guarantee for every child would be a milestone in poverty prevention in Austria. Not every child is financially insured, an incredible number of children live only with a parent, with the mother or father alone, and the second parent – 90 percent are the fathers – is not willing to pay or indebted; these families often lack money to live, money to heat. You may feel that now is an exaggeration, but the fact is that not every child lives in Austria in an apartment that can be heated that every child cannot go ice-cream in Austria if the school class goes ice-cream, has winter boots and so on. If every child in Austria is worth the same amount, then we have to make a repair of the Maintenance Insurance Act, because this too sees an end to the 18th. Year of life before. ==References====External links== Year of life, for example, as a student, depends on their parents. That's one. On the other hand, the rules, i.e. what is at least to be paid, have not really been adjusted since the 1960s. The last child cost analysis on which these rates are based dates back to 1964, so we do not know what a child costs and needs today, so this also belongs to repairs. So we from Social Democracy want to discuss this first in the Committee and hopefully bring a majority to bear in mind that every child in Austria needs a maintenance guarantee and does not have to wait until the willingness to pay or the state comes in. We create and legislate laws, if the private fails – in this case, if fathers cannot pay or pay – it therefore requires an additional benefit, a supplementary amount to the family allowance, which is of course linked to a common residence of the child with the parent and, of course, to a residence here in Austria. So don't ask any fairy tales from my interlocutors of ÖVP or FPÖ that this money would go somewhere. This is a supplementary amount to the family allowance, not the family allowance itself, and the subject is well repealed in the Family Tax Compensation Act. We want to reopen the debate just before Christmas, that every child in this country must be of equal value to us and that there should be no difference between children who get less support and children whose maintenance is secured. If I am allowed a last sentence on the family bonus, which is also floating in the room that the future black and blue Federal Government wants to introduce: I can tell you that there are really a lot of people in this country who don't deserve enough in a year to be taxed and who therefore have nothing of a family bonus. That is to say, once again the sheer is dispersing, and there is a very high risk that the carousel will continue to reverse the fact that the inequality of children is progressing in this country. That would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4153	The next item is Mrs Steinacker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4174	Madam President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, if I listen to you, I think that you are quite clear on the motto: What does the world cost?, acting. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Are the children worth something or not? That's cynical!]] In the last legislative period, you have already submitted your request, and it is aimed exclusively at single parents and not at families in which parents, legal guardians, take care of children together. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is absolutely cynical!]] – Excuse me, but if every child is worth the same thing to us, then probably those who are being cared for in partnership. But I really believe that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 180 000 single parents, have you forgotten that?]] In principle, I am opposed to this: The primary obligation is for parents and legal guardians to provide for children in a material way. I would like to thank all the Austrians, who do a lot of material things for their children on a day-out basis, sometimes even under personal remission. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's over!]] If that doesn't work, if that doesn't work, then there are possibilities for the state to help in a subsidiary way. [[Call the SPÖ: Heartless!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Heartless! I just stressed it! Did you listen?]] I would like to say to the SPÖ proposal why you are so wrong with this one. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said that, following the family allowance, the additional amount would be paid suddenly to children who are not living abroad if this claim arises in Austria. – This is smoothly wrong, this is illegal in Europe and will be beaten up by every European court now. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Completely wrong!]] This means that no one in Austria can stand up to the European rules. As early as 2016, we had to transfer 273 million euros to family aid abroad. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Imagine, dear taxpayers and taxpayers, what it means if this SPÖ’s maintenance guarantee claim would actually come true! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Cynical!]] This would be unconstitutional, because discrimination on the part of parents who carry out these tasks in partnership and raise children is planned. There really would be all the stupid ones who are trying to live partnership twice and to provide their children with a family life in the best possible way. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Unmistakable! Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: But this is not a Christmas speech!]] However, I would like to say: Yes, we need a reform of maintenance law. If there are family problems, there are two questions: How high is the right to maintenance? How quickly can it be determined? We need a maintenance right procedure that optimizes the processes between the authorities involved. It is about better cooperation between the courts and the child and youth support agencies in the countries. There are also problems in determining the level of maintenance. You know that the duration of the proceedings is often long, especially if the maintenance level is affected in the procedure. There must be easier methods. I believe that the identification and determination of comparative values and uniform rates could be very quick to remedy. I also believe that there should be procedural adjustments. We could make it possible for law enforcement officers to be able to issue maintenance orders. If this is contradicted, then at all events a proper procedure begins. At this time, our family compensation fund is at hand quickly and immediately with the advance of these amounts. A working group is working in the Ministry of Justice, in which experts from all couleurs are represented. They are not only talking about the civil maintenance issues, which are particularly relevant to the area of justice, but they are also very likely to discuss what instruments there should be and can be used to improve the situation materially if children are vulnerable to poverty. In my opinion, however, the proposal at the table cannot be financed and therefore rejected from our point of view. Our goal must be to help parents and children quickly in difficult family situations. We want to remove the weaknesses of the system, close gaps and help where necessary, as well as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4336	Mrs Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4361	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I think the question has been asked wrongly; the question must not mean: What does the world cost?, but the question must be asked in this way: What about equal opportunities for all children in this country? This is the right question to be asked in this debate, Mrs Steinacker. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I just want to give you a few numbers so we know what we're talking about. In Austria, there are currently 180 000 single parents, men and women. However, 90 percent of these are women, i.e. we are talking about a women's problem or a challenge for single women. Statistics Austria also says that 40 percent of these single parent households are vulnerable to poverty. 40 percent of these 180,000 people are at risk of poverty! The reasons for this are diverse. Of course, there's not just one reason. One reason, however, is that women's income in Austria is still below average, also compared to men's incomes. Another reason is the lack of employability of women, of single women in particular, because childcare facilities are not sufficiently advanced, so that all can earn their living themselves. And one reason is also the lack of maintenance. Mrs Steinacker, you know as well as I do: 54 percent of all single-parent households live on a maintenance under the rule requirement. Under the rule requirement! And this rule requirement is calculated after the children's cost analysis from 1964. There, too, you have to sit down. - That's the one point. The second point is that 18 percent of all these households do not receive maintenance or maintenance because the procedures are still pending or are not yet completed. Mrs Steinacker, it is a matter of particular concern to children in single-school households of poverty, which is simply a fact, because one cannot disappear over it. Each statistics state that children of single parents are affected by poverty twice as often as other children. The consequence of this – we all know – is exclusion, is not enough participation – Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has referred to it – it is also less likely that these children will receive in their childhood. I do not think we can afford this in Austria, we cannot afford it, and we as social democrats simply do not want to afford it, ladies and gentlemen. The aim of this proposal is simply to ensure that single parents who have a gross annual income of less than €55 000 receive a maintenance guarantee – and above all only if they live in a common household with the child. The flow of money to foreign countries is therefore actually out of control. This is a prerequisite for this, so the objections of the EIAs are simply not correct in this case; I would like to say that this is just a fear-making matter once again. Dear colleagues, we are convinced to make a very, very valuable contribution to poverty prevention with this request. This is also the difference to the ÖVP application, which aims at maintaining a need-oriented minimum guarantee. You're already in poverty, and you must have used the wealth. We also want a maintenance guarantee so that poverty can be prevented preventively. My appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore: Read You're going through our request! The application produces legal certainty and the application is linked to a very small red tape. The application is linked to the family aid which has already been referred to, and above all it is a request made by almost all the single parent organizations that have been discussed with many in advance. Mr Lueger and Mr Kucharovich have worked together on this request in many, many discussions. I'm really making an appeal to you: Read the application through! Let us take this request together at the next meeting of the Committee on Family Affairs. Let us take a first step towards a revision of the Maintenance Act! And let us make a significant contribution to the fact that children from single-parent households are no longer as vulnerable as they are now and that they are given the same opportunities above all as all other children.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4437	Next speaker: Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4461	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very funny that you came up with a request in October, before the election, and we have already made similar requests in 2010 regarding families and single parents that you have postponed every time. Since 2010! My colleague Schimanek made a request in that regard at the time – and what happened? You postponed him. Now you insist that there is a need for action. We have been saying this for the longest time that there is a need for action, because everything is always carried out on the back of the children and the single parents. But now that you're starting to spread re-election fights here, I think that's very interesting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] They have constantly rejected requests from us – and that cannot be so. The fact that gaps exist in the maintenance advance law is not a question; that we have to talk about it is not a question either; and that we also have these gaps. It is also not a question of closing, but this request, as you have put it here, I believe, needs further discussions as well as major revisions and improvements. And we also need to be sure that these services are not linked to family promotions and are not going abroad. This too must be noted and held very precisely, ladies and gentlemen. I think that in committee we will have enough time to talk about it and find a solution that really has a hand and foot that we can then all agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4507	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4531	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We NEOS find the idea of SPÖ in principle positive, because we also recognise that the risk of poverty of children is a very big problem in Austria. We still have a number of points that we will then be discussing in committee so that this proposal will be better, because it is not legal in many areas. In principle, however, we are in favour of this, especially because the issue is addressed once and because we also come to the debate on what the possibility of living a self-determined life means for many women at all, or the impossibility of a self-determined life. Decisions in the family policy field should also always focus on the well-being of children. Especially here in Austria, we can say that there is no equal opportunities, that we, politics, cannot guarantee, but we can very well ensure that there is equal opportunities in life, especially for children. However, our family benefits, the maintenance right, the few childcare facilities and the education system do not or does not sufficiently create this right of opportunity in Austria. And the EIA cannot entirely take responsibility on this issue either. Yes, it is true that there are also a few things to criticise on this request, but it is not to be criticised that this is a very important issue. This also applies, for example, to the area of how to make it easier for single parents by taking a lot of men – in this case – into responsibility, giving them the opportunity to assume responsibility. For example, the topic of double residence comes into play. This is also something that has been repeatedly prevented by black and red in the last legislative period or has never been specifically addressed. We want to open up this subject area more widely in order to really find a sustainable and meaningful solution. And a solution needs it, because the number of those children who are vulnerable to poverty in Austria has even increased a little over the last 12 years, from 19 to 20 percent. At the same time, family benefits in Austria have increased by a quarter in real terms over the last 15 years. What does that mean? – Clearly, the family benefits we now have in Austria are not at all accurate to prevent the risk of poverty in children. That's really tragic. We spend much more money on family benefits than other countries, but we are in Europe Compared to 21. As far as the risk of poverty of children is concerned. That's really tragic. Nor will the proposals that have now been made by the future government on tax bonus for families change the whole thing; and even if, as announced in the ÖVP programme, it goes towards family taxation, because family taxation – and we know that – is particularly negative in its ability to work. This, of course, also fits in with the history of Austrian women's policy. We know – and this also confirmed a Wifo study just in September – that very many family benefits in the tax area represent negative incentives for women to work. What does this mean – that is a technical term –: negative incentives to gain? – It makes it difficult for women to work at all, to work part-time, to work full-time at some point, and perhaps to have their children themselves, to be able to live themselves, to take care of a pension. This makes it extremely difficult for women in Austria to do so. With a family tax and this tax bonus, this would not be easier, but only more difficult. It has been mentioned very often at the previous item on the agenda, it is about a self-determined life and how to do so. In my opinion, this works primarily in the long term through a self-employed income of women and men and also through the fact that we can change the narrative in Austria: Child rearing is not a matter of women, child rearing is a matter of parents. Children and their equal opportunities are a concern for society as a whole, and this concerns all of us. That is why I am also looking forward to the debate in the Committee and to the fact that we are also addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4586	The next item is Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4608	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite surprising to be criticised in such a delicate debate that an application which has already been submitted towards the end of the last legislative period is now being re-established. Yes, I also submitted our request again, and the SPÖ has also reintroduced the request, along with our female spokesperson Maria Stern and with Peter Pilz, because it is important because we want to carry something forward. Mrs. Steinacker, if you say you want to help quickly, then I wonder why since 2008 the Government Convention says that the Maintenance Act should be improved and the gaps should be revised, but since then, for ten years, nothing has happened. At the moment, we have the situation that in the last National Council meeting before the election of the ÖVP, a committee meeting could be held to prevent the ÖVP from bringing different ideas to a common denominator in order to develop progress here for single teachers. So it is very questionable if you want to help speak of this quickly. We have the situation that 400 000 children in Austria – 400 000 children! – live at the poverty line. That's almost every fifth child, that's just over 18 percent, which is an awfully large number of children living at the poverty line; 10 percent of them live in poverty because there is too little entertainment or because there is no entertainment at all. Wanting to help speed up also means taking quick steps. That is why it is urgently necessary for the Family Committee to finally meet and be set up in this regard. The problem is not new, the question is: How to find a solution, how can it be developed faster? If I listen to the approaches and the question in the room is why new applications are now being submitted again, I will answer: because it is important. And then I would like to ask the opposite question: Why is the ÖVP and why is there no application on the table for the FPÖ? Why is there no request to do so in the relevant committees? That's the question. There is nothing illegal in Europe. I would like to read to you this sentence from the request: Only children living in the same household with their parents are entitled to the supplementary amount. - There isn't a cent going abroad! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Now to the FPÖ: Perhaps Mr Strache, who is not worthy of taking part in this debate and pursuing it, would like to make a Facebook posting in which he deals with the 400,000 children at risk of poverty, instead of supporting demands that go towards lengthening working hours up to twelve hours a day, that parents should work even more flexible and longer on the one hand, but that their children should be in external childcare for up to twelve hours a day. [[Abg. Hauser: That's what he's doing!]] [[Abg. Hauser: Look at the regulation... before you talk such a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not true at all! Such a fool!]] This is the social policy of the FPÖ and the social manuscript of the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4680	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign the request to the Financial Committee to be elected. [[12:17:55]] 3rd. Point First reading: Request by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Corporate Tax Act 1988 (KStG 1988), the Corporate Code and the Labour Contracts Adjustment Act (AVRAG) (Agricultural Shift Control Act) (8/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4719	This leads us to the 3rd place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Kai Jan Krainer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4749	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are so-called mega-themes in politics. These are topics that not only play a role in a country or in a region or for a few months, but are a global theme for many years because they affect all parts of the world and can only be solved globally. A simple example of this is climate protection, of course climate warming, climate change; this is not the case. only one region – some regions more, some less – but globally the earth and can only be solved globally. A similar theme exists in tax policy, in tax justice or at least in some of it; Where do the top ten thousand pay their taxes? And: How much taxes do they pay? – Of course, this is about very, very large corporations and very, very rich individuals, with anyone belonging to these groups, that is, they always have natural persons behind it. Unfortunately, you have to ask questions like: Where do they pay them?, answer with: In fact, nowhere! and: How much do they pay?, with: Something between nothing and a bit! This is a reality today that a very small part of the society, which is particularly good, which achieves particularly high incomes, pays particularly little taxes. We have now tabled a proposal which does not solve all the problems but deals with very, very important issues. We say first of all, we make moving profits more difficult. We say second, if someone is pushed and caught, then he must also pay punishment, then he must pay more than he who has made it from home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, we say something very important, it's about transparency: making transparent who pays their taxes. It is not about people, but above all about companies that announce according to country-by-country reporting how many taxes they pay in which country. This should also be made public. Fourthly, those who show that part of society is cheating that part of society does not pay its taxes honestly, that individuals or groups of persons or companies do not make their fair contribution, are to be protected. That is to say, it is about preventing the move, it is about punishment, it is about transparency and it is about protecting those who show up if someone does not make their contribution. To that end, I would ask that this proposal, which one can certainly add to and improve, because it does not solve all the problems that arise in the field of tax evasion and tax evasion and tax evasion, but it does address essential questions. One thing has to be clear to us: To come to a solution at the end of the day is above all a cultural question, a question such as how we, as a company with tax evasion, deal with tax avoidance. Just in these days, for two people who used to go in and out here – not here in this hall, but still in the old – namely Karl-Heinz – I am too beautiful, too successful and too rich – Grasser and Walter – what about my performance? – Meischberger, a court case in which, of course, it is also about tax issues, but essentially about corruption, and that is also the question of how we as a society deal with it. That is why, I believe, it is important first of all to clarify: Tax evasion, tax avoidance are not cavalier offences, but in fact a theft at the general public, a theft at society. Secondly, it is very important that we ask everyone to make their fair contribution. What we see today is: The less income benefits, the lower taxes, and: The more someone has to afford to earn income, the higher the taxes. This is a huge problem that we have in our tax system, and we will only be able to solve this together. In this respect, I am looking forward to the discussions with all the other political groups in the European Parliament. Financial Committee on how we can make the tax system more just. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4822	Next word reported: Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4846	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I fully agree with Mr Krainer when he notes that the issue underlying this request is a deep cultural issue and a fundamental question for us politicians as well as for us as for society, as we deal with the issue of tax justice, as we deal with the issue of tax relief, which some people are dealing with, because the whole is, of course, a matter of fairness in dealing with each other. I assume that we can reach agreement here in this House on the fact that we must avoid the need to escape from the tax obligation by means of a profit-shift, in this case in so-called tax havens, and that we must, of course, find ways and means together, how we can achieve this. This is deeply contrary to one of the essential principles of our tax legislation, namely: that each person should contribute to the financing of our community according to his/her performance, and that of course also where the value added actually takes place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] We will probably find less agreement in the view of how extensive a community is to be in a country, that is, how much the state should intervene and how much tax money is to be taken into consideration, and thus also how high the tax burden on citizens or businesses should be. It is not a secret that we in the ÖVP think it would be good to have a little less state or a lot less state, it would be good for us to abolish less taxes. Our clear message is that we want to be among the 40 percent mark at the tax and tax rate and, as a result, more freedom for individuals and, above all, more personal responsibility for individuals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the request of the SPÖ: In principle, we welcome the initiative, but there are already a few comments. I have discussed the request with experts both in the Ministry of Finance and in the European Commission and the OECD, and there are some concerns. On the one hand, there are no receipts for tax audits or even for objections due to an administrative court decision in Austria. That is to say, the additional ban on deductions from this application does not actually bring any additional benefits. Unfortunately, the practice of so-called dustlessness and the ban on deductions are also very easy to deal with, at least in the form set out in the application. There is a directive of the European Union, the anti-BEPS directive that we have to implement within a year, which provides for very different instruments to combat profit-shifts than those contained in this proposal. And I think it makes sense to include this directive in our discussions in the Financial Committee and not necessarily to make a single entry. There are also a few constitutional concerns that are expressed there, but I do not want to go so much into detail now. It is also strongly warned by the European Union of a single entry of Austria, especially with regard to the publication that could cause the problem, that third countries – whatever has already been announced – may withdraw from this publication, i.e. from this country-by-country reporting and no longer participate in it if the publication is actually carried out as it intends in accordance with this request. But I do not want to end my remarks negatively with these few objections I have mentioned. I am looking forward – and I would also like to participate – to a constructive discussion on this subject in the Financial Committee. I am looking forward to your approval of the Committee's constitution, of course, provided that I have the right to take over the chairmanship in this financial committee. I am looking forward, as I have said, to constructive discussions, because the issue is a very serious one for our society, for fairness in dealing with the financing of our community, and therefore additional solutions are needed in this regard. In so far as: I support – once again – this basic approach and I also thank you for it, but there is still a proper and in-depth discussion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4912	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4934	Madam President. High house! Values Advisors! According to the EU Commission, each year the EU escapes only through the circumvention of corporate tax through profit-shifting about 50 to 70 billion euros. However, tax avoidance and tax fraud exist not only in corporate taxation, but also in the case of turnover tax, where the volume is unevenly higher. According to the Minister of Finance, the loss of VAT fraud, as a result of the so-called carousel fraud, amounts to between 50 and 170 billion euros per year across the EU. The solution to avoid VAT carousel fraud is the introduction of a comprehensive reverse charge system between entrepreneurs, i.e. the reversal of VAT debt between entrepreneurs. This would mean that the turnover tax between entrepreneurs no longer needs to be paid and therefore a VAT fraud would no longer be possible. The FPÖ has been demanding this for many years. However, the EU Commission is very opposed to the Reverse Charge System and has recently presented a totally inadequate proposal for a directive to introduce the Reverse Charge System. A particular opponent of this reverse charge system is the French Commissioner Moscovici. France is alleged to grant hidden aid to the French automotive industry by means of the current VAT system. This would no longer be possible if sales tax debt were to be reversed. This EU Commissioner, by chance, comes from the socialist party PS, which belongs to a joint political group with SPÖ in the European Parliament. – Mr Nogkanzler Kern, ask your group colleagues in Brussels why he is against the fight against VAT fraud! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Hauser.]] This is in particular a tax downturn of up to 170 billion euros – money that we would urgently need in order to relieve workers and small and medium-sized enterprises! Effective taxation at the place of value added and transparency are two key elements in the fight against tax avoidance by multinational companies. In particular, tax transparency is of fundamental importance here in order to ensure fairer taxation. In this context, I should like to refer to the proposed amendment of the EU Balances Directive, which should contribute to increasing public transparency in the payment of income taxes by companies. It makes no sense, therefore, to adopt national transparency laws alone, which we would then have to change again in the context of the implementation of this EU directive. Finally, I would like to refer to the financial committee debate on 30 November. In June 2016, refer to the Compensation Price Documentation Act. The FPÖ has already called for appropriate public transparency, but was voted down by the SPÖ Members. At that time, the SPÖ would have had the opportunity to use more tax transparency, but the SPÖ did not. And today, the SPÖ is suddenly working for more tax transparency? – This is not very credible, Mr. Nochkanzler Kern!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4982	Next word reported: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5007	Madam President. Yes, it is in fact also a gain-shifting law in the request made by Mr Krainer, and I would now like to join my predecessors' heads and cranes who have spoken of freedom, self-responsibility, transparency, morality. That's what I'm questioning: If the information agreement with Switzerland has worked, why has this information agreement with Liechtenstein not worked? Why did the old government group SPÖ and the new government group ÖVP have the whole barrier? This is also a matter when it comes to morals when it comes to how tax optimization can be carried out. That's not something objectionable yet, you can say: If there is a regulation for this and if no restrictions are taken in – in the final effect, this was always the classic theme of the early old chancellor core that a coffee house chain pays less taxes than the sausage stand around the corner – if the laws allow it, then one must not defuse it either. I also believe that a quick shot, a quick shot in the single passage, is a major problem. I would just like to point out that I also represent small and medium-sized enterprises because I am a business owner myself and because Austria is an export country: Let us not forget what difficulties would come to us! We always consider it only one-dimensional, but a European tax legislation, even an Austrian tax legislation is not a one-way road. If the export is superior to us and if the profits are taxed where they are made, then this will not bring much to the Minister of Finance in the case of Austria. So that's why we should get away from populism once again, we should come to honesty. When it comes to transparency, I – you will hardly guess – may speak of the chambers, of what is avoided, what is done in the clubs, among the subordinate associations. There is also no tax paid, as we know, so that is already very difficult. We're going to have a discussion. I would also like to mention a few more figures. The OECD estimates the tax downturn to 4 to 10 percent of total corporate tax revenue, and 60 percent of world trade takes place within groups. These are figures that we must also consider in the discussion. It is difficult to estimate how Austria will deal with the export country on its own initiative. If we are going to consider simplifying the tax system, then we are back on the wood road with this law, then it is again the so-called one-way road that does not make it easier for entrepreneurs in this country. The most important federal tax laws have been updated 422 times over the past 16 years. This corresponds to 26 legislative amendments per year, i.e. practically one every second week. In view of this, do we want to talk about simplification for businesses, simplification for citizens? – We will complicate the system again! I think we need an in-depth analysis when we have this discussion when we discuss it under your chairmanship, Mr Head, in the financial committee. We need an in-depth analysis of costs and benefits, and we also need to simplify the tax system. In addition to what the ÖVP predicted at the time, this forecast amounted to 2 billion euros by the registration bank obligation, it did not come to weitem, and this also makes entrepreneurship more difficult. The picture of the businessman in Austria here is, to a large extent, that of the tax evaporator and culprit; and that should not be. The small and medium-sized enterprises which cannot make these changes in profits should be supported in such a way as to make their business activities easier in Austria. That's why it's all about nothing else! That is why I think the term profit-shifting law is fundamentally wrong. It should actually be a simplification. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5052	Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5076	Madam President. High house! Tax systems around the world have one thing in common: The little ones pay and the big ones judge it! That has always been the case, and this is still the case today, but I think it is urgently necessary to change that from the point of view of fiscal justice. I am pleased, Mr Kopf, to hear from you that you have voted in favour of the principle of performance in taxation. If we apply this principle and think of it at the end, I am already looking forward to the decision here in this House, which will finally bring about the reintroduction of the inheritance tax, because if you think of this principle to the end, then you and your group must agree to the reintroduction of an inheritance tax, otherwise you do not seriously mean it with the principle of efficiency of taxation! But now on the real topic: Tax evasion of large corporations, tax evasion are issues, important issues related to tax justice. The billions, which escape Austria and the EU, are missing in other areas, from education to public security and elsewhere. If the SPÖ is now going to make some very sensible proposals here, I naturally have to ask myself why all this has not already come in the course of the last legislative period. The SPÖ has always decided everything, together with the ÖVP, even though it has been a matter of strengthening transparency. I recall the so-called bill of settlement price documentation, i.e. the country-by-country reporting, which has already been mentioned several times. Here at this point I have repeatedly requested that this data be made public. Mr. Krainer, you come here now and say: Yes, this should be made public! – Yes, this is good and beautiful, but what was in the past legislative period? The best was always – and this is now addressed to the representatives of the ÖVP – Mr Finanzminister Schelling, who meant, with abstract arguments, that publication of this data is not possible. One of his arguments was that this data could be misinterpreted by the public. – Well, I find that absurd! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] At least equally absurd, however, has been the argument of tax secrecy. Why? – Because this publication of data has long since existed in other companies, for example in credit institutions, but also in the energy sector, in energy enterprises. So, what's the point? Mr Kopf, it was not the European Commission that slowed down. No, Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, has slowed down not only at Austrian level, but also at European level. He has just slowed down again when a strengthening of the money laundering directive was discussed in connection with the transparency register, which concerns the identification of the final beneficiaries of economic activity. Yes, he once again showed that he was the blockade champion and not the pioneer in the fight against tax fraud. It has never been; quite the contrary: Schelling has always cooperated with those who have spoken for tax swamps and for oasis for oasis; and I find this intolerable in all this debate I have had with Schelling in recent years. [[Abg. Little:... submission!]] At a meeting of the Ecofin Council about ten days ago – the Minister of Finance found it no longer necessary to go there – it was about setting down the so-called black list of tax havens. Yeah, and what happened? – A list on which European tax havens are not on top of it, with countries such as Malta, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, the UK and the United States missing more. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This can and must not be the case; we will never come to a law and regulations that put an end to the tax relief and move forward with fiscal justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5137	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Andreas Schiederzu word reported. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5161	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic is not a new one, it has only been fired by the latest revelations of Investigative Journalists under the title Paradise Papers; before that, the Panama Papers were already known in spring. Again and again, it has been discussed that the whole area, namely legal as well as illegal tax evasion, prevention, evasion, for Europe, amounts to a total of EUR 1 000 billion in loss or withdrawal of money that is actually at the hands of the States. Even the European Karas of the ÖVP confirmed once again in the European Parliament these days how important it is to act by means of black lists and to make clear where clean and where unclean systems are. The European Commission estimates, however, that even the sum of legal tax loophole use – a shift in profits, as it says in the tax field – is EUR 50 to 70 billion. That is, for Austria alone, the EUR 1 to 2 billion that pass the Fiscus through legal loopholes – as our tax system allows what we really don't want to do – to flow. Therefore, from my point of view, it is necessary to impose several principles; first of all, the principle that where an economic performance is achieved, where turnover and profits are achieved, taxes must also be paid and remunerated, that the tax system of the country in which turnover, profits and economic benefits are provided should be counted. This is a question of fiscal justice, which is a question of fair competition, and that is also a question of a functioning competition economy, whether there are fair rules for all. It cannot be said that the small SMEs, and also employees, are simply paying their taxes in Austria, and that the multis and the larger with the tax avoidance advisory industries in the background are simply taking advantage of all possibilities to postpone their profits, and that tax justice means that the little ones are looking through their fingers. We must therefore enforce fiscal justice in such a way that the small ones are strengthened towards the big ones. [[Abg. Hauser: Why did you not change this in the last...!]] The third point concerns more transparency, black lists and various international country-by-country reports. As early as spring, we strongly insisted on the Austrian Minister of Finance to join the European transparent bodies because transparency is the solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We have already presented a very concrete package of legislation in spring, but in the end it has failed here in the house and in the coalition. I would also like to say the following, because Karlheinz Kopf has made this a little misunderstanding with the letter boxes: The prohibition of letterbox companies refers to the fact that letterbox companies or domicile companies with non-transparent ownership structures, which are not subject to significant business activities in the State of residence, namely to the caribikinsels, unfold, but only to tax evasion, are prohibited or are not taken into account. That is to say, we have to make it clear that payments to companies, if they are not transparent or if they are not known who the economic owner of the company or what their economic activity is, are not then deductible. It is therefore not a question of making the letterbox company itself detractable, but of closing these circumvention possibilities once and for all. However, I would also like to say quite clearly: Unfortunately, all our proposals in the past have been repeatedly prevented and sometimes not even discussed. I am glad that the discussion on this has been held very objectively today, because I believe that all of us, including the colleagues of the Party who in the past have put the Finance Ministers, must understand that this is a problem of European society that is burning under the fingernails and that we must solve it – or, in order to take up a term: it is simply time to do so and not to prevent everything from happening again and again as in the past. I am excited whether the new Federal Government and the new Finance Ministers are at least addressing these issues in a way. In the past, the ears were always closed when it came to this topic – unfortunately to the disadvantage of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5243	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign the request to the Financial Committee to be elected. [[12:48:05]] 4. Point First reading: Request by Mr Wolfgang Katzian, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the Increase of Energy Efficiency in Enterprises and the Federal Energy Efficiency Act (EeffG-Novelle 2017) (12/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5282	This leads us to the 4th place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5309	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the course of a debate on energy policy, even if it is a first reading, we must keep a short mind once in the light of yesterday's events in Baumgarten and the disaster that happened there and think of those people who have been injured or have died there. An employee has been killed, and I would like to express our heartfelt participation in my name, but also, as I believe, on behalf of all of us in the family of this employee. More than 20 people were seriously injured; we wish them a quick recovery and an early improvement. But there are also many who have been in that thanks to God nothing has happened, in which shock is very, very great. This is a traumatic event. I am very glad that these colleagues have been promised appropriate professional assistance, as the Works Council has confirmed to me. Finally, I would also like to thank, in our name, all the forces who were and helped quickly on the ground, but also the local population, who quickly packed up and helped to ensure that the disaster did not grow even bigger – a warm thank you to all of them. [[General condolences.]] We are dealing with today's proposal for an important energy and environmental construction site, namely the Energy Efficiency Act. Together with two-thirds of the majority in 2014 we have passed this Energy Efficiency Act here in the National Council. Since I have formulated that it is an energy policy building site, I would like to briefly explain why we have made the Energy Efficiency Act at all and why it is now a construction site and we need to repair it. At that time we discussed it very intensively. I can recall nights in Parliament where we have discussed how we can contribute with energy efficiency to our climate objectives, our energy policy objectives and our energy objectives. to implement it in a spoken fashion. We said at that time that energy efficiency is the largest power plant we have in this country, and we must do everything we can to get the grip of increasing energy consumption not only by building as many power plants and sources as possible, but also by slowing down and reducing increasing energy consumption together. We have said that this is an important contribution to climate protection, because we want to leave our children a viable environment, and it will not be enough if we invest so much in a very intensive expansion of renewable energy. The measures will not be enough, we must also try to reduce consumption as a whole. We also wanted to reduce the dependence on imports, we wanted to make energy more durable, for consumers as well as for the economy; and we wanted to drive new business models, innovation – keyword digitization. Then the law has been implemented, but why do we have to fix it now? – Because it was a good law – I am still convinced that we have made a good law – but in the implementation of this law only the most absolutely necessary has been made and many things that have been thought of in the law and have also been formulated have not come to a break. It has been a kneeling before the interests of the economy, and the law has drawn teeth. It is therefore ineffective that there is hardly any progress in the field of climate protection in Austria. Emissions rise instead of sink. Energy consumption is growing more strongly than the economy. The absurdity, however, is, on paper, in other words, in the reports we have indicated, we even oversupply the objectives, although the facts speak a different language. It's annoyed! We face those who have actually trusted in the fact that there is a law that develops business ideas, have also invested and are now incomprehensib with the way in which this is implemented. We have therefore said that we need concreteisations in the law, we need to improve the governance of the law, and we need to ensure investment and legal certainty beyond 2020. For this reason, we have incorporated a number of proposals into this novel, from the obligation to save energy from 0.6 to 1.5 percent, to prohibiting the flat-rate accountability from 2020 – that was what the law had done to the tooth and nerve. We have stated in this draft that there must be no transfer of already credited measures beyond 2020, that the law must be evaluated annually, and that Parliament too should be informed accordingly about the development. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken on board the Paris climate agreement, and we have also made great commitments, as we want to do in the future in energy policy. Let us take to heart what we have already said in 2014: Energy efficiency is our biggest power plant, and we should also use this largest power plant together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5367	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5391	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Yes, I would like first of all to join with the participation and thanks of Mr Katzian, Also with the thoughts in Baumgarten and also thank those who quickly helped there. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The goal of the Federal Energy Efficiency Act is one to which we clearly confess ourselves. At that time, I really negotiated really intensively with colleagues Katzian and colleague Brunner for many nights in 2014; and Mr Katzian knows that it was a good compromise at the time, because we have jointly defined the objectives – on the one hand, the objectives of efficiency improvement, enforcement of energy saving measures and on the other hand common objectives of ecology and economy. It was very important that we have reached a compromise that makes it possible for efficient energy saving and, on the other hand, what is quite important is not forcing companies into a corset where they can no longer move. That is why I also spoke to some entrepreneurs who are also implementing these measures in the morning, and they say on the one hand, it has proved to be successful, but, of course, it is a relatively large red tape for many small businesses. So if we want to make improvements, we must avoid further burdening entrepreneurs, namely, with some new regulations and new burdens, because in this respect we must achieve that we take them back, that we also receive the competitiveness of our site accordingly. The law in force contains a number of good approaches to the economy and provides incentives in many places instead of pronouncing bans. That's very important, too. An example of this is the possibility to act in a way that saves energy. This has also been an essential advantage, which we agreed together at the time. I would remind you that at EU level, this whole project is currently being re-regulated in the energy efficiency objectives; and if we are already provoking and setting out a request for an extension of the legal requirements beyond 2020, I am afraid that we will make a gold plating in this respect. Actually, we are in the process of reducing gold plating a little, so we are not taking appropriate measures beyond EU standards. In principle, of course, we are always ready to talk – not a question – but I think we need to see that this mixture of strategic measures and the commitment system that we created at the time is such that it is feasible and also feasible, with the need for us not to lose sight of the need for the objectives. I would therefore like to say once again: Yes to energy efficiency, No to new burdens for companies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5442	Mr Dr. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5464	Madam President. High house! At yesterday's climate summit in Paris, France's President Emmanuel Macron urged the world to make more efforts in climate protection. [[Abg. Kassinger: Should shut down his nuclear power plants!]] “We are losing the battle,” he said in a somewhat martial way, because with the previous climate protection plans, the world is heading to a 3 or 3.5 degree global warming – and that has nothing to do with what we have done. [[Abg. Schimanek: Exactly! Don't build on nuclear energy! Environmental protection with nuclear energy?- Oh, my God!]] The Paris climate agreement agreed two years ago to limit climate change to a temperature increase of significantly below 2 degrees. The sadness is that the French President is right. If we now look at what ÖVP and FPÖ have presented in the government negotiations as a result of the environmental chapter, we find nothing really substantial, apart from purely announcements and mere headlines without any concrete design. It is already being sold as a success to accept the reality, namely climate change, or to confess to comply with valid contracts such as the Paris climate agreement. The creation of a common climate and energy strategy is already a permanent burner, which has so far proved to be a piper due to the heart and delay tactics of the ÖVP. Significantly, the Federal Minister is not present again today. I only remember the discussions in plenary this autumn, in which we did not receive a concrete answer from the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the question why the strategy promised for early summer 2017 is still not available. The issue of energy efficiency has so far been completely lacking on the agenda, although energy efficiency could make a significant contribution to environmental protection. It also contributes decisively to competitiveness. In Austria, there are excellent companies in the fields of energy and environmental technology. These need reliable conditions and clear guidelines and expect clear signals from policy. Austria's know-how and Austrian jobs depend not least on the fact that the ÖVP finally gets through to a clear positioning. As I see colleagues here sitting in front of me: Also his horror scenario in the debate on the Energy Efficiency Act, which a monster authority would develop, has not occurred or has not come true. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ proposals are on the table. Let us move on to implementation as soon as possible! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5519	Mr Mag. Dr. Axel Kassinger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5541	Madam President. High house! Mr Fichtinger, I am pleased that you have made my speech on 9. ==References====External links== It is true that I pointed out at the time that this monitoring body is developing into a potential monster. We have now come to this issue in the context of discussions on possible government participation and have found that, when such a government comes to do, we will at least evaluate and intensify the Energy Efficiency Act. That is why it is a good thing, but it is certainly a matter of looking at one area or another, especially as regards gold plating, i.e. the over-fulfilment of EU directives – an Austrian disease, so to speak. This too has been referred to as a common goal in the preliminary discussions of the Government negotiations, namely the Gold Plating in all areas where we have to deal with EU directives, look at them and avoid them as far as possible. Climate and energy policy: I do not think that the differences between the parties are great. We all agree that climate and energy objectives, in particular the European Union, must and must be guidelines for us. With regard to the nature of the procedure, there are probably different approaches. If Mr Katzian says that energy efficiency is, so to speak, the power plant of energy policy, then we have a slightly different access. Of course, energy efficiency is part of a reasonable energy policy, but we liberals believe that innovation, research and investment in these areas are the real force of an energy and climate policy, especially a small country as it is Austria. In this context, we will also lead our efforts and resources particularly in this area in any future government participation, i.e. towards research, energy research and innovation in the field of energy. There are already very, very good companies in Austria, but there is still air up there. We believe that it is much better to use the lever than to overstep energy efficiency measures. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the development and promotion of further renewable energies is also part of this programme that we have been discussing over the past few weeks, in addition to – and this has already been mentioned today – the development and adoption of a climate and energy strategy. We've done this, and I'm really good at doing that. It has already been mentioned that this has been open for many years, and if we should go to a government together, we will also do so. That is what we have done for this legislative period, and we will succeed in doing so, just as we have undertaken to increase renewable energies. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, we will of course also evaluate the way through the monitoring centre – which I think is a good one – to what extent this is necessary. We will also evaluate precisely the extent to which small and medium-sized enterprises are taxed by the bureaucracy caused by it. Of course, if this is done in the context of the evaluation, we will take appropriate countermeasures. An important point of a good climate and energy strategy is also the guarantee of security of supply – another point that we have made, in addition to clean mobility and, of course, the reduction of fossil energy sources compared to renewables. Finally, I should like to say a word to Mr Macron: If Mr Macron already spits large tones, I would recommend that he make a contribution to a path to a good future on the basis of renewable, ecological energy by simply removing or at least starting out his French nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5595	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5621	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A novel of the Energy Efficiency Act is the proposal of Mr Katzian. We support NEOS in principle. We were very skeptical at the time when the Energy Efficiency Act was passed, and it proved to be a great deal of our criticism, namely that it was a bureaucracy and paperworker. Nevertheless, it works in a very complex way for the economy, but the first step towards energy efficiency is done. The very basic goal is – and I believe that one can agree on this here in the House –: The best energy is the one you don't use at all. At the same time, many political and environmental problems are also solved. If we use less energy, then the exit from the fossil energy to which we have committed ourselves by 2050 is much easier. It also increases our political independence – as far as imports are concerned – of states such as Russia, Saudi Arabia and many more, in which one cannot truly speak of a hort of democracy. But efficiency has a further meaning, namely for our economy. If we achieve energy-efficient production in our country, this also means a massive competitive advantage in an increasingly technologically driven economy. In this sense, we want to have such a discussion in the Committee. We know that the objectives proposed by Mr Katzian are feasible. But we also want to know how the way is to be shaped. We look forward to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5659	Next speaker: Ms Dipl.-Ing. Martha Bißmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5680	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear fellow citizens! This is my first speech, the first of many. I am looking forward to working as a member of the Austrian National Council for the next five years for a future-oriented Austria. I will be involved in key future areas, namely environmental protection, energy transition, sustainable agriculture and development cooperation – in short: sustainable economies. [[Abg. Rädler: short is good!]] Since we want to listen particularly to the know-how of civil society from the Pilz list, we are focusing on civil participation – another area I represent. It was once: Austria was once a model student in climate protection. Today we are ranked 35 out of 56 in the international ranking. That's a bad enough thing right now. Question to the former government, the non-present Federal Minister Why have you, in the past, in the time of your government responsibility, failed to make Austria climate change fit? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] With regard to energy efficiency, everything is crucial: Does prosperity and energy savings come together? - Yeah, I'm fine. This proves in Austria countless pioneers, actors, companies and NGOs, who have been tireless for climate change and energy transition for decades and are doing good business. From 2013 to 2016, I coordinated an EU-funded project in which an international energy efficiency team supported music festivals and music clubs in 27 countries in energy saving. The Eurovision Song Contest in Vienna 2015 was a green event for the first time. Real 400,000 litres of diesel were saved. Did you know? – This corresponds to an average annual energy consumption of 1,500 Austrian households. [[In the direction of the Abg. Katzian, with Abg. Haubner has:]] Now to your request, Mr Katzian, if I may interrupt you: I see you want to go in the right direction in principle. More energy efficiency? Yes, of course! Adjust the Energy Efficiency Act for the period after 2020? – Yes, of course! Take more responsibility for energy suppliers? - Please, absolutely! But – and here comes the great But! – I do not see that the energy saving share should be reduced by strategic measures under this law! We will achieve the target value for strategic measures by 2020 anyway. So why lower him? We need more and no less strategic measures such as tax relief and financial incentives for building renovation and mobility. We need to strengthen Austria's technology leadership and set many innovation impulses in the field of energy efficiency. So why lower the target value? – In the end, this request remains inadequate. Mr. Katzian, learn energy efficiency! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the future Federal Government! I ask you to: Set ambitious goals! The EU plans to increase energy efficiency by 30 percent by 2030. I say: Let's get 40 percent in the visor, we'll do this! [[Call the ÖVP:50!]] - Why not 50! Thank you very much, let's talk about it! Let us, through the expansion of renewable energies, through the economical use of energy and energy efficiency, slow down climate change and lay the foundations for sustainable economies! My deepest conviction is: If the environment is good, the economy is fine. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5745	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign the request to the Constitutional Committee to be elected. [[13:12:31]] 5. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5784	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There is agreement to elect the following committees: the Financial Committee and the Constitutional Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign to this effect. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a number of 21 members and substitute members were proposed for the Committees mentioned, each with 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and FPÖ, and one member and one replacement member each to the NEOS and the Pilz list. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for a committee size of 21 members and replacement members to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes announced by the President's clubs and thus as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Members and replacement members as well as their functions are actively available on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament> Committees.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[13:14:20]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5862	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 5 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 5: Election of committees (Financial Committee and Constitutional Committee) The establishment of the Financial Committee and the Constitutional Committee shall be decided [...]. For the Financial Committee and the Constitutional Committee, a number of 21 members and 21 alternate members shall be fixed. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members, SPÖ per 6 members and replacement members, FPÖ per 6 members and replacement members, NEOS per 1 member and replacement member, list Pilz per 1 member and replacement member. ==References====External links== To appoint replacement members of the committees, which are thus valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[13:15:56]] Inflow I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests 16/A to 30/A. Before I close this meeting, I announce that, following this meeting in the National Council meeting room, the proposed constitution of committees will take place and an assignment meeting will take place immediately thereafter. I am now looking for visitors as well as media representatives to leave the hall for the non-public committee constitution. This meeting is closed.
