ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1211	Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 3 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the last legislative period is responsible for opening the sitting and holding the Presidency until the election of the new President or the new President. I open the first and constituent session of the newly elected National Council of XXVI. legislative period. [[10:04:58]] Commemoration on the November Pogrome of 1938
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1245	At the beginning of the constituent session, I would like to recall a historic event – an event that highlights the importance and value of our strong and proud democracy in which we live. Today 79 years ago, on the night of 9th to 10th. ==References====External links== There were violent measures organized by the Nazi regime that targeted Jewish fellow citizens. Synagogues, apartments, and shops were devastated. Thousands of people experienced untold suffering. They were murdered, driven into the suicide and dragged into concentration camps. Throughout Austria, in countless cities and communities, commemorative events take place these days. Parliament reminds of this significant event tonight with its own performance at the Vienna Volkstheater. Unfortunately, the main actor of the piece, who was suffering from 92-year-old Holocaust survivors, Éva Fahidi, yesterday evening. I think I speak in all our names if I wish Mrs. Fahidi any better soon. The program of the event had to be adapted, but it still takes place. I hope to welcome many of you to the Volkstheater tonight. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. I now ask you to stand up for the performance of the German anthem from the seats. [[A windscreen quartet of the Vienna Philharmonic introduces the Austrian Federal Anthem, which is performed by the gatherings.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I very much welcome you once again, especially those who are the first to be praised to the National Council, the newly elected Members who are therefore at the beginning of their parliamentary work. [[The representatives of the ÖVP wear turkise buttons]] [[On the one hand, with the impression of the Parliament building, on the other hand with the hashtag oevpklub – the representatives of the SPÖ red cloves and the representatives of the FPÖ edelweiß with red-white-red loop on the revers. On the seats of the representatives of NEOS there are cacti with pink flowering.]] With great respect, I welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in our midst, who is present at this meeting. Welcome, President! [[General condolences.]] [[Federal President Van der Bellen rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] The constituent session will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. I would also point out that during today's National Council meeting, photographers will photograph the homepage on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate. In addition, a 360-degree photo collection of the National Council meeting will be made for documentation purposes. The construction of the camera will take place after the election of the Third President/third President. [[10:09:21]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2017/2018
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1323	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 19. ==References====External links== 27 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on XXVI. legislative period and at the same time in accordance with Art. 28 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act at its ordinary meeting 2017/2018 for the 9th. ==References====External links== On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. [[10:09:55]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1347	I can also send the House the following letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. October 2017 Communication: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 17 November, has been the subject of a resolution. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 17 October 2017, the Council of Ministers met on 17 October 2017. On 1 October 2017, the Federal Government decided to take note of the Federal Government's demission and to dismiss the Federal Government and the State Secretary in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act of the Office. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the remaining members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1), the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, up to the formation of a new Federal Government, Mrs Mag. Muna Duzdar has been appointed State Secretary and has been given to me for support in the management and parliamentary representation. With the best greetings Christian Kern’ According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall, after consulting the President-in-Office, appoint the following four Members for the provisional provision of the business of the scribes: Hermann Gahr, Mag.a Michaela Steinacker, Angela Lueger, Wolfgang Zanger. As prevented, Mr Magistrate has been reported for today's sitting. Stefan. [[10:11:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1415	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:11:52]] 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1735	We're going into the agenda and we're on the 1st. Point: Fishing by Members. Writer Wolfgang Zanger will read the Angelobung formula; then the delegates will have to do the fishing with the words “I promise” through name call by the aforementioned writer – who will later be replaced by the writer Angela Lueger. I should now like to ask the author, Mr Wolfgang Zanger, to read the formula for fishing and then start calling for the name. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise from your seats.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1774	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the writers Mr. Zanger and Mr. Lueger, the following Members make the fishing observation with the words “I praise”: Amesbauer Hannes, BA; Amon Werner, MBA; Androsch Maurice, Ing.Use custom fonts; Anger Erwin; Antoni Konrad; Bacher Walter; The following shall be added to the Annex to the Annex Bayr Petra, MA MLS; Mulder Ruth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Belakovich Dagmar, Dr.; Berlakovich Nikolaus, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Bernhard Michael; Bißmann Martha, Dipl.-Ing. (FH); Bogner-Strauss Juliane, Mag. Dr.; Bösch Reinhard Eugen, Dr.; Brückl Hermann; Bures Doris; Cox Stephanie, BA; Deimek Gerhard Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Diesner-Wais Martina; Dönmez Efgani, PMM; Double farmer Karin, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Drozda Thomas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Duzar Muna, Mag.Use custom fonts; Ecker Cornelia; Einwallner Reinhold, Ing.Use custom fonts; Engelberg Martin, Mag.Use custom fonts; Erasim Mela-not, MSc; Eßl Franz Leonhard; Fichtinger Elisabeth, BED BED; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Mag. Dr.; Fichtinger Angela; Friedl Claudia; Fuchs Hubert, MMag. DDr.Use custom Fürlinger Klaus, Mag.Use custom fonts; Prince Susan-ne, Mag. Dr.; Gahr Hermann; Gamon Claudia, MSc (WU); Gerstl Wolfgang, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gerstner Peter; Gödl Ernst, Mag.Use custom fonts; Count Martin, Mag. Dr.; Count Tanja; Greiner Karin, Mag.Use custom fonts; Griss Irmgard, Dr.; Great farmer Maria; Grünberg Kira; Hafenecker Christian, MA; Haider Roman, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hammer Michael, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hammerschmid Sonja, Mag. Dr.; Hanger Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Haubner Peter; Hauser Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Heinisch-Hosek Gabriele; Herbert Werner; Sky builder Eva-Maria, BSc; Höbart Christian, Ing.Use custom fonts; High-stetter-lackner Irene; Hofer Norbert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Hofinger Manfred, Ing.Use custom fonts; Höfinger Johann; Holzinger-Vogtenhuber Daniela, BA; wood lignite Eva Maria, BSc; Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff Douglas; Jachs Johanna, Mag.Use custom fonts; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Jeitler-Cincelli Carmen, Mag., BA; Jenewein Hans-Jörg, MA; Kaniak Gerhard, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kassinger Axel, MMMag. Dr.; Katzian Wolfgang; Merchant Martina, MMSc, BA; Keck Dietmar; Kern Christian, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kickl Herbert; Kirchbaumer Rebecca; Kitzmüller Anneliese; Klinger Wolfgang, Ing.Use custom fonts; Knes Wolfgang; Kolba Pe- ter, Dr. Kollross Andreas; Königsberger-Ludwig Ulrike; Head Karlheinz; Köstinger Elisabeth; Kovacevic Christian; Krainer Kai Jan; Kraus Maximilian; Krenn Barbara; Krisper Stephanie, Dr.; Crist Hermann; Kucher Philip; Kugler Gudrun, Dr.; Kühberger Andreas; Kumpitsch Günther, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; In short, Sebastian; Laimer Robert; Lasar David; Laust Christian; Lightfried Jörg, Mag.Use custom fonts; Linder Maximilian; Lindinger Klaus, Ing., BSc; Lindner Mario; Lintl Jessi, Dr.; Loacker Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lopatka Reinhold, Dr.; Lueger Angela; Lugar Robert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Mahrer Karl, BA; Marchetti Nico; Margreiter Doris; Mölzer Wendelin; Moser Joseph, Dr.; Musical Joseph; Mühlberghuber Edith; Nehammer Karl, MSc; Neubauer Werner, BA; Niss Maria Theresia, Dr., MBA; Noll Alfred J., Dr. Nussbaum Verena, Mag.Use custom fonts; Upper Noster Gabriel; Avenauer Friedrich, Mag.Use custom fonts; Ottenschlager Andreas; Pewny Christian, Ing.Use custom fonts; Plasolm Claudia; Plessl Rudolf; Povysil Brigitte, Dr.; Preiner Erwin; Prince Nicholas; Rädler Johann; Ragger Christian, Mag.Use custom fonts; smoke Walter; Rendi-Wagner Pamela, Dr., MSc; Riemer Josef A.; Rosenberger Alois, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Rosary Walter, Dr.; Rossmann Bruno, Mag.Use custom fonts; Rupprechter Andra, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Sandler Birgit Silvia; Schandor Christian, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Honey Sabine; Schellhorn Joseph; Scherak Nikolaus, Dr., MA; Arbitrator Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schimanek Carmen; Forgeman Peter; Jewellery beater John; Schnöll Stefan, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schrangl Philipp, Mag.Use custom fonts; Rott Dominik; Black Gabriela; Sieber Norbert; Singer Johann; Sobotka Wolfgang, Mag.Use custom fonts; Strong Christoph; – Mag. Harald Stefan is apologised –; Steger Petra; Steinacker Michaela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Stäger Alois, Diplômé; Strache Heinz-Christian; Strasser Georg, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Strolz Matthias, Mag. Dr.; Swazek Marlene, BA; Tashner Rudolf, Mag. Dr.; By Harald, Dr.; Tschank Markus, Dr.; Underrunner Maximilian, Mag. (FH); Vogl Markus, Ing.Use custom fonts; Wagner Petra; Aquarian Sandra; Weidinger Peter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Wimmer Petra; tiny Angelika, Dr.; Wittmann Peter, Dr.; Woeinger August; Worm Peter; Yildirim Selma, Mag.Use custom fonts; Yılmaz Nurten; Zadić Alma, Dr., LL.M; vocalist Wolfgang; Zarits Christoph; Zinggl Wolfgang, Mag. Dr.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2597	That's the end of the fishing draw. Ladies and gentlemen! You have committed yourself with the vow to the lawful and conscientious exercise of your function, and I wish you every possible good in the interest of the Republic. [[General condolences.]] [[10:22:14]] 2. Point Election of the President/President, Second President/Second President and Third President/Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2633	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There are written constituencies, which I announce: The proposal for the President of the National Council is put to Member Elisabeth Köstinger. On the election of the Second President, there is a motion for a resolution by Mr Doris Bures. For the election of the Third President, a motion for a resolution is tabled by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer. In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2700	According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a block-time limit of 20 minutes per club will be proposed for this debate, with a maximum of three speakers per club. This is done according to the strength of the club. If you agree with this procedure, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This procedure is also unanimously approved. We are now going into the debate. Mr Sebastian Kurz is the first to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October, a direction decision was made in Austria: ==References== In October, people in our country have had the opportunity to decide which composition we should work in Parliament over the next five years of this legislative period. It is an honor for me to speak to you as the first speaker for the People's Party today, and I would like to start by taking the opportunity to thank all the supporters, but especially all voters, for their trust! This trust is a great award for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate all those who have made their way into Parliament. I would like to congratulate all the other parties, all those who have done so, all those who have done more. At this point I would also like to take this opportunity to express my respect for a party that has not moved into Parliament this time, but which has nevertheless done decades of work for Austria in this House: I admit that we did not always agree on many issues, but the Greens definitely have their merits for the Republic, also for Parliament and especially in areas such as the environment and climate protection. I believe that it is therefore appropriate to express our respect to the Greens on this day too. [[General condolences.]] As a younger politician, it is also my concern to thank all those who have worked for Austria in recent decades in this House. Throughout the party borders, there are some who have not been candidates this time, or who have not managed to enter Parliament. From Jakob Auer to Josef Cap there are many personalities who have worked for Austria for several legislative periods, and I think they also deserve our thanks. [[General condolences.]] I would particularly like to thank two people who have done great things for the People's Party in the past, on the one hand to the former clubman of the People's Party, Reinhold Lopatka, and on the other hand to the Second President Karlheinz Kopf. Thank you very much for your work! I am glad that you continue to be represented in our group. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] ==References== However, many people were also given the opportunity to join Parliament for the first time on October. Many Members have been elected to this Parliament for the first time. In our group, there are 32 people who move into this Parliament for the first time. I think that the mix of experienced forces, as well as new personalities who want to bring experience from different areas and bring their expertise to Parliament, is making our Parliament strong. That is why I should like to welcome not only the new Members from our group today, but also from all the political groups and congratulate them very warmly on their election. [[General condolences.]] A new legislative period always offers an opportunity for a new start. I think if we look back at the election campaign, but also on the last few years, then we can say: It is necessary that some changes are made, especially that the style should change in dealing with each other. I believe that people are satisfied with mutual adaptation and have an interest in the fact that politicians work together properly in dealing with each other. In recent months, we have always tried to shape a new style of dealing with each other, not to make others bad, but to convince them of their own ideas. I believe that it should be in all our interest to bring this style to Parliament as well, I believe that a dignified relationship is not only pleasant for all politicians, but is also in the interests of the people. I therefore very much hope that in this legislative period we will succeed in dealing with each other in a respectful way and in working in the interests of our Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] On the election of the President of the National Council, I can present to you today a personality that has always been excellent in the past because she is a skilled worker, but above all because she has always dealt respectfully with all other political competitors, even in the function of the Secretary-General. It is a politician who, in fact, Also – as far as the average age in the House is concerned – is one of the young people, who, at the same time, has gained many years of experience in the European Parliament and has always represented Austria well. It is a political woman who, in her years in the European Parliament, has developed a reputation for being one of the most zealous Members, and it has always been a pleasure for me to work with her. I am very pleased, and it is an honour to be able to propose to you today Elisabeth Köstingeral's President, and I may ask for your support now or for your support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to working with you over the next five years. There will be different tasks in Parliament, but also beyond. There will be government groups, there will be parties whose task is to critically control and monitor the government as an opposition. It will be necessary to make compromises and, in particular, if we want to make major changes, it will be necessary to find two-thirds of the majority. I am looking forward to working with you all and wish you all the work in Parliament, all the other political groups, but also ours, all the good for the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2848	The next word is reported by Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Christian Kern. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2872	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This day is actually a holiday. It is a holiday of parliamentary democracy, it is about the fishing of Members for a new legislative period. This day, as the President said, is actually under a special star, because today it is 79. Let's have the November pogroms who called the Nazis cynical Reich crystal night. This was the first step to mass destruction. There were lootings and outpourings, and there were 30 dead. The outcries in Vienna and Innsbruck were, as is told, committed with special brutality. That is why I think it is right for us on this day to remember and remember us here, because the way we deal with our history determines and defines what kind of future we want to live in. I think there is a consensus that we should all represent together that the escalation caused to other people that exclusion, that the search for scapegoats, that racism and the mobilization of low instincts should have no place in politics. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and list Pilz.]] We are starting today into a new legislative period, but it is definitely not a new era of parliamentarianism in Austria. Government changes are now part of the normality of democracy, and voters rightly expect all of us, whether government or opposition, to work together for the benefit of our country. Here in this House the heart of democracy beats, it is a place of conflict, confrontation and a place of passionate discussions. This is the opposite of a sound-bite policy based solely on staging. For us – and the distributions of roles seem to be becoming increasingly apparent – it will be clear that in the opposition we are here discussing government work, questioning the proposals and the political concepts, complementing them with better proposals and also deliberately representing a counter-policy against superficial staging. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] How necessary and how important this is has been demonstrated in the last few days. We all pursued the government negotiations, and in particular it was interesting to observe the opinions after the talks: I was there and there surprised, so to speak, about the depth and the intimacy of the reports on the results of the work that have been carried out in the meantime. Almost one has been tried to say: Friends, buy an apartment! [[Abg. Kickl: That's below your level!]] But they will certainly be able to carry on this in the sense of a consensual style. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You are still looking for your style!]] This will be an interesting story for the FPÖ. I'm convinced you've now decided to put yourself in bed with the turquoise bride. You know from the historical experience: Sometimes you have to be careful not to wake up with the black widow. You're going to do that somehow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is clear that the initial requirements in this legislative period are as good as they have been for a long time. We have an economic growth of 2.8 percent, which makes us much better than Germany. We see that unemployment is falling, and we have achieved employment records month after month. The advantage is – and this is important for the people of our country – that this will be directly reflected in the incomes of the Austrians. We are now witnessing the collective treaty negotiations of the metallurgicals, in which one sees what this economic template can actually mean for the people of our country very concretely in the form of income. It's important for me to emphasize: These successes, this development did not fall from heaven! They are, of course, the result of a positive economic environment, but they are to a great extent also the result of political decisions. I should like to remind you of the tax reform that has accelerated consumption; people have more money to spend. I should like to remind you of the job programmes that we have jointly decided here that people have received more work through action 20,000 and through the job bonus that we have decided together. I should also like to remind you that we have decided on a budget which is the basis for continuing to invest at record level in public and public infrastructure, and that also means work and income for people in our country. It is interesting to see that this success story, in which we are currently participating, is also reflected in a solid budget, in a household that is ultimately solid on the legs. Nevertheless, we have experienced a collapse in the last few days, in which after 17 years the question of the budget deficit has been discussed with EIAP finance ministers. I would like to point out the remarkable contrast between the figures reported otherwise by the Ministry of Finance to Brussels. We have a commitment to this report, and this is ultimately in an interesting contrast to what has been reported by the potential coalition negotiators. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to state once again why we have proposed Madam President Bures for a candidate for the National Council Presidency. I think it has represented Parliament and Austrian democracy in an extraordinary, very excellent way, and we would be pleased if you, like us, gave her the confidence in the future. We will also support President Hofer's candidate status. You have proved that confidence in your management has been absolutely justified. In accordance with Parliamentary practices, I have, or at least I personally, also decided to support the ÖVP's proposal regarding Mrs Köstinger. However, I also do not want to keep behind the mountain with my opinion that I have always appreciated the cooperation with President Head to a very high degree. I am glad that he will continue to belong to this House. All in all, I hope that the parliamentary forces represented here in the House will cooperate with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2954	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Heinz-Christian Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2979	Madam President Bures! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have today a day of democracy in the truest sense of the word, because there are 183 democratically newly elected Members who have been praised today and, above all, new political groups have formed. All these representatives will certainly take the opportunity today to start work together for the benefit of our Austrian Republic and our homeland to the best of our knowledge and conscience. Even though in recent years and in the last election campaign a lot, a lot of unpleasant things have occurred, it is now time to leave that behind us, to curl up the sleeves and start working together, and in this case Klubobmann Kern will certainly find his current and future role, no question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our Head of State, Mr Alexander Van der Bellen, once correctly noted – I quote – that it is about pouring tombs and building bridges. – This is precisely the expectation of the Austrian population, which we also have to comply with here, which is cross-group, with all the differences in content that make up us as well. That is why I am of course very pleased to welcome all the new Members very warmly. It is very, very young Members here. All political groups have young, just over 20-year-olds, and it is also good that there is a cross-section of all generations in this House. It's a pleasure when you experience how much you're moving: It is, I believe, more than 85 new mandates here in the House, which will also gain experience. Even if the opinions expressed in many areas differ naturally, it is important that we here in the House in all the harsh discussions that exist, that we still sit down and conduct them honestly. No question, the political debate is necessary, but the level must also be maintained. However, in order to be able to look successfully into the future, you must of course also look at the past critically. The still running red and black government has left a huge burden. In the past legislative period, we have also experienced massive tweezers and Haders, and this has not really brought our Austrian home country forward. One must also insist that this should be done on the 15th. In October, the Austrian population received a rejection. The expectation now is that with the future government a positive change and renewal is taking place, that we will hopefully be able to overcome the highest rate of unemployment that we have had to experience in the positive sense, that jobs are created, that the economy is being boosted, and that, above all, we will finally be able to control the excessive tax rate and, if we are going to do so, will hopefully drive under – 40 percent. This is precisely the responsibility we have, namely to take the election outcome seriously and, of course, to respect it. In this way, of course, I would also like to congratulate my colleague of the Free Parliament Club. 51 Members of the Liberal Parliament Club have been praised today, which is a strong number, the second best result for the FPÖ in history. This also means a great responsibility that the Free Parliament Club will naturally live. Our responsibility with our work will be to ensure that, especially when it comes to youth, the right framework conditions will be ensured in the future so that our young people can find a sustainable perspective, do not lose their homes and find prospects on the labour market. Above all, we need to ensure that they can do a good training, whether on academic ground or also in the context of teaching. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] However, we also want – and we also demand – that our children continue to grow up in security and that any negative development in the area of crime that is present or present will be reversed. You also need to get under control and stop the unbridled immigration that it has given you. We, of course, as a free parliamentary group, are also the constant neutrality that we want to fill with life, because it must also be our mission to convey and to establish peace. At this point I would like to quote Friedrich Schiller: “Threefold is the step of time: The future is slowing down, Now it's gone quickly, The past remains silent forever.” This quote shows how little time is actually available to us, for it has been played out a lot of time in recent years due to these disputes. We therefore have this scarce time to use effectively, with consistent work for our homeland, for the people in the country, with love for our beautiful country and for the people in our country. That's exactly what we're going to do. Just as the Austrian population has given all of us their confidence, so we want to restore confidence to the people, too, by further expanding direct democracy. We firmly believe that everyone who conducts honest policies should not fear the Austrian population either. On the contrary: The integration of the Austrian population is important and is also desired. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say that our democratic system is the highest political asset, and we liberals stand to do so and will continue to live this way: listen to our people, but also try everything to make them more determined and binding. We 183 MEPs are the result of our democracy, we stand here as representatives of the people, we are legitimate because of a democratic election and we are now The three Presidents will also be elected. The proposals are on the table and, of course, we will respect all the proposals made by the three strongest parties, not only the proposed candidates, but also the proposed candidates. However, I would also like to thank President Doris Bures, for she has held her presidency as President in a party-politically independent way in the last few years and has been excellent. You also have thanks and recognition for this. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the divorced Second President Karlheinz Kopf, for this was also very, very responsiblely lived by him. There was always a very, very good and correct cooperation in the Presidential. Parliament can be proud to have these two personalities as Presidents. [[General condolences.]] We will support the proposed President, the candidate, Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger. We will also support the proposed second President Doris Bures. We ask all Members represented in the House to support our proposal as the third strongest political force in the House and to elect Norbert Hofer as the third President. Norbert Hofer has been active in this function since 2013 and has certainly proved that he has held and lived the Presidency in an extravagant and intrusive manner. [[He welcomed FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ as well as NEOS representatives.]] Finally, I wish all of us good cooperation and hope that we can find ourselves in many necessary areas of content in all the differences. I think that is the expectation that the Austrian population too has. All right, all right, every single Member!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3131	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Matthias Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3152	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens who attend this celebration of democracy! It is a touching moment – for me personally the second time – this constitution of the National Council, the entry into force of the elected People's Office. We 183 people have the responsibility or the task of leading the well-being of a community of nearly nine million people now to make decisions on behalf of these nearly nine million people. I think we all feel that this is a big responsibility. This start, of course, also has a certain magic, in the way we gather here. I think that we are looking confidently at the next five years with the singing of the German anthem – “home of big daughters and sons”, hopefully also great opportunities. Politics is the place where we figure out how we live together, how we live well together. This is the definition, the understanding of politics that we have given ourselves as a citizen movement. The first sacred living room of the Republic, the res publica, the public thing, is the High House. This is where the politics, the ringing around the common, lives for the outrages, how we want to live together. Always carrying this self-understanding within us is important. We as Parliament are the first state power. We are in place to make laws binding on our community. This is a self-confidence that should pass us through to the last pore and should always lead us during these five years; only then can we assume this responsibility accordingly. I wish to see a strong working parliament – this is a dream since the beginning of our movement – which is, of course, not an extended workbench of the government, but the government as the first state power at an eye level, upright, self-confident, with a sincere course, in a co-operation, but also in the clear understanding that we have different tasks: We are the legislation and the government is the executive, it has to implement it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We all sit here with the claim to push forward solutions in the sense of the common good, and that is the essence of democracy. Each and every one of us has a slightly different idea, which is to be understood by common good, and that is the competition of the best ideas. That's why there's the election campaign. Well, he's over, but the competition of the best ideas continues. I would like to briefly outline what NEOS will lead us in the next few years: We will pay particular attention to freedom and sustainability – as the balance between economy, economy, ecology, environment and social affairs. We will also focus on the rule of law. In observing what is happening in some neighbouring countries, in Member States of the European Union, we think that the time has come to bring the rule of law forward in the considerations, in the discussions and in the elections of the next five years. We will be active as an opposition force in three-fold design, with you and sometimes against some of your proposals, I would also like to say that. On the one hand, we will be opposition forces as a control party. We will stand firm against structural corruption, we will stand firm against the waste of tax money, we will stand firm against any form of party accounting and the economy of friends. This is the opposition as a control party. Secondly, we will be the guardian of the Constitution, with the new opportunity given to us by the voters; we are the lever for the second-third majority. With every effort to undermine our fundamental values of freedom, with every attack on citizens' rights and rights of freedom, we will put a stop to NEOS. We'll say: Until here and no further, not with us! And without us, there will be no this two-thirds majority. This is the opposition force as a guardian of the Constitution. Thirdly, we will be the opposition force as a reform turbo. That is why we have already tabled three proposals today. This is our understanding: Work from the first hour to the last hour. With our two-thirds majority lever, we will also lift away some of the blockades. Today, we have put forward first proposals and proposals for solutions for the abolition of cold progression, we want the sly tax increase to finally be a thing of the past. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Hofer.]] The handling of the money pockets of the people in this country must cease without prior parliamentary consultation. We know that there is a majority in favour. We know that the majority did not come about for electoral reasons. The election campaign is over, the majority can now grant. Secondly, we have tabled a proposal to reduce party funding. We want this reduction; we know that you usually do not want it, as you sit here. We have the highest party funding in Europe. We have people who have falling or stagnating real wages, and the parties get themselves insatiably every year more. As a first step – and I believe this should be a majority – we should at least deny that the promotion of parties will not be increased next year. You see, this is a small step, it is educationally valuable, and I think we can do it together. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Thirdly, The secret of office must be gone. We have already submitted a request for an Information Freedom Act in 2013 at the first meeting. We will now start again with this initiative. We believe that it is a matter of monitoring, monitoring, monitoring, monitoring and, above all, having the crystal clear state that all the proposals are made to make citizens glass-clear. We need a glass state, not the glass citizens. This initiative is also on the table. One word on the election of the three presidents: Yes, we respect the right to nomination by the three strongest political groups. We would have liked to have a conversation with the candidate of the ÖVP. This conversation did not come about despite our invitation. We need, in the sense of the one I am carrying out, the assurance that this office will take place with great seriousness. This is the High House. This is the first state power. This isn't a doorway, it's not a ranger station. It takes the confession that this office is being performed with full passion, with material passion. We could not assure ourselves of this, and therefore we will have closed Karlheinz's head office for the President's position in appreciation of his so far impeccable management. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3247	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3271	Madam President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for the excellent work you have done. You see, I'm not Peter Pilz. An unprecedented media justice has led you to see me standing here today as a clubman on the Pilz list. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Pilz has no fault?]] I worked as a specialist for ten years and not in politics. I would say that for a few years I have managed the existence of a balcony muppet as far as politics is concerned. You know this, in the “Muppet Show” the two gentlemen shudder down from the balcony. It was for me, as it were, a departure from the balcony to the stage when I decided in the summer to go to politics with Peter Pilz and 150 other candidates who were candidates on our lists all over Austria. We have decided that we want to be a mischievous opposition, a perceptible opposition, in particular against the uplifting coalition of black and blue. We want to make control and transparency our top objectives in Parliament's work. In these turbulent times, a few days ago – more precisely, yesterday – I had the decision to make whether I would not only go to Parliament new, but also let myself be elected into a function in our club, namely that of the clubman, although I had no practical experience with parliamentary work so far. The report, I honestly said, was that the ÖVP is setting up someone with Mrs Köstinger – she is, as far as I know, already working in politics – who has not yet worked in this House, and if she dares to run for the President of the National Council, I have thought, then I have to trust to be a clubman for the Pilz list. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Who is this now - -? I don't know myself anymore!]] I would also like to ask you to grant our new group what every government and every minister is entitled to, namely, 100 days of entry into service. We have stamped something out of the ground, which, I believe, will be very noticeable here in Parliament, but we must consolidate ourselves. And I would like to use these 100 days for consolidation. We have promised in the election campaign that we will try, in particular, to build a citizens' participation project. Our aim is to enable a genuine participation of citizens and citizens in politics and thereby disappointed voters, non-electors and Protestants in turn to lead to democratic participation. Our mandates and mandates – which we have once again established yesterday in a club statute – have the free mandate. That is to say, in our statutes we maintain quite clearly, there is not a party opinion, but the Members will vote according to their conscience and according to their best knowledge – no requirement from the party as a line. We want to make a policy that goes up from the bottom. We want to meet the problems with the citizens, we want to talk to them about what solutions they can imagine and then we want to bring this into Parliament. So we are not, or do not necessarily want to be a typical party, but more a movement for control and transparency. Participation in the policy requires that you have appropriate information. In my opinion, information about our work here is a source of guilt. It is not that one has to pick this up, but we have to go out and make it clear to the people what is being done here in this House. Transparency also means avoiding bluffing. For example, I have experienced this in my work. I previously did not know what a motion for a resolution was and then I got to know it: A motion for a resolution is a request which, even if it is decided by all, must not necessarily lead to the provision of such a legal regime. I remember – from the point of view of my work – that in 2005, it was agreed in the Committee on Justice that effective measures should be taken to enforce claims for damages in the event of mass damage. This has also been done by the Ministry of Justice, and since 2007, that is, for more than ten years, the concepts for this have been in the drawer of the Ministry of Justice. A motion for a resolution also has its limits, and real legislative decisions are better. An example of control that we want to exercise has arisen in the election campaign, i.e. before the election. In the interests of the insurance industry, SPÖ and ÖVP have in common meant that before the election they must quickly go through a novel of the insurance contract law, with which one was supposed to make a reform, but in reality the right of withdrawal, which the policyholder wanted to have a lifetime with false instruction on the right of withdrawal in life insurance, granted by the European Court of Justice, was simply and simply wanted to turn away. We succeeded in making this public, and with the public announcement this project was at least ended. I am convinced that we need to keep in mind here that this project does not come on the tapet even during this legislative period, and that it does not go through. We focus our work on control and transparency. With eight Members in the back ranks of this Parliament, we are certainly not the ones who will negotiate and implement legislative decisions with you every time, but we can very much offer transparency and control in our minute. Unfortunately, with Peter Pilz, the discoverer of the nation, we have lost the one who stands for this discovery, but all those who are happy that he is now out of politics, be said, that will not be for a long time. [[Abg. Strache: Has it been exposed?]] This might be a longer vacation, and then he'll be in politics again. But he won't, I say, come back here right now. [[Abg. Kickl: No right of withdrawal for Peter Pilz!]] [[Abg. Strache: Has he been exposed or not?]] . I know there is no right of withdrawal, Mr Kickl, but we eight Members will carry on his idea of control and he will assist us as advisers. So I'm allowed to sum up: With our small group, we want to lay a foundation for bringing about a change of policy in this country in five years' time, namely, real social justice. We fear that, as an opposition, we will be called upon to defend all that black and blue has provided for the population in this country over the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3391	Next speaker: Mr. Managing Clubobmann August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3415	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear visitors to the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, sit in front of the TV screens at home! The constituent meeting of the National Council is always a special day, especially for those Members who are re-entering the National Council. I should like to congratulate all those who have managed to belong to the 183, especially those 85 who were first praised here today. It is 32 of our group alone, and we also ask the youngest Members of the House: It is Claudia Pakolm, who is the youngest MP at the age of 22 in this legislative period. Dear Claudia, vice-president of all those who have come and have also moved in here young, I can congratulate you very, very cordially. [[It is a pleasure with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] But I also congratulate all those who were re-elected after a previous great personal commitment. In our ranks, in the ranks of the People's Party, the most elderly Member – not the oldest one in years, but the one who is the longest in this House – and I would like to thank Karlheinz Kopf very much, especially for his work as the second president of the National Council in the last four years. [[I would like to say that I am pleased to see ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as to see representatives of SPÖ, NEOS and List Pilz.]] It is also a need and a concern to thank Reinhold Lopatka very much for his work as a clubman in recent years for the People's Party. The work of the clubman is not always easy, but, dear Reinhold, you have made this excellent, and on behalf of our group and of me personally a warm thank you for your work in recent years. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I myself have been praised for the fifth time today, I have been a member of the House since 2002. We have waged a very intense election campaign. The mood was good and the mood turned into voices. And since today a delegation from my district of Schärding is here, who has actively supported me, also in the election campaign of preference, which is not of course – I have been able to achieve a good result –: I would like to thank you very much, especially my family, and especially my wife, who is also here today, because it is not natural for you to get this back cover. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] ==References== However, the political landscape has also changed on October 2017, and in particular two political groups have been strengthened: ÖVP and FPÖ. It is a pleasure for us to be able to raise 7.5 percentage points and now, with 62 Members, to put the strongest political group here. But the Freedom Party too has been able to grow strongly and is now strongly represented with 51 MEPs. However, my congratulations also applies to social democracy, which, with 52 Members, was able to hold its mandate, but above all also the NEOS, which was able to lay down a bit and are now represented with ten Members. [[Abg. Blow: Loud winner!]] Of course, we also welcome the new group on the list – I do not know what you will really call you, but at least we also welcome you, Mr Klubobmann Kolba, and your group welcomes you to the High House and also congratulations you. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] In addition to the fishing observation today, we are also talking about the election of the President, the Second President and the Third President, and I would like to come to the election proposal from the People's Party, which is at Elisabeth Köstinger. And since the NEOS have, above all, been sounded by the NEOS, that it is not usual or that it is not, so to speak, the use of the fact that someone who has not heard this House is elected President, I would like to stress that: I've known Elisabeth Köstinger for many years. She's a top motivated, committed politician. She has been a member of the European Parliament since 2009, i.e. she is a parliamentarian. It cannot be that such a debate is being triggered here. Imagine that there would be a Member of Parliament here who has belonged to a country day for ten years and would be proposed here for the office of a President or a President. I don't think that would trigger any discussion here. You're always saying you're a European party. If a long-standing Member of the European Parliament is here and proposed for the President's role, she will have our full support, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In connection with direct democracy, I can say that Elisabeth Köstinger has also experienced great support from the electorate in this election, with nearly 8,000 preferred votes on the national list – almost 60,000 votes in the last election to the European Parliament. This is also a clear sign that the population of Elisabeth Köstinger – we call it Elli Köstinger – has actively supported. And we propose them for the President's role. I would ask all Members to support this. Of course we also support the other proposals, namely the election of Doris Bures and Norbert Hofer. And I ask you, including our candidate, Elisabeth Köstinger, to support the election of the President. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It's gonna be important that we have the new style, the one on the 15th. In October it was also chosen to have moved in here in the House. I was often addressed in the election campaign and asked: Why is there always a dispute? Why does politics always appear in the light that one speaks badly about the other? – Our goal must be to strengthen and strengthen the confidence of the population in politics and democracy. This, of course, also involves a critical debate, but an appropriate choice of words is a supreme command. The dignity of the house should not be violated in the future. Even if you are different in content, it is important to have a proper relationship here. We by the People's Party will make every effort in terms of what we have said in the election debate: We are primarily concerned with a discharge of people. It's about debureaucratisation. We are talking about new social justice in this country, which is most necessary, and we are talking about the need to stop illegal immigration within the framework of migration policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, we are currently in negotiations, and we will endeavour to achieve this. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again from my side and also on behalf of the Austrian People's Party: I congratulate all those who have been praised today and have moved into the National Council. I ask that we work together for our country and lead it into the best possible future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3529	Mr. Klubobmann Mag is next mentioned. Andreas Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3553	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Dear Honourable Guests! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember what a moment this is, when you move freshly into Parliament, you have a festive adornment – the Members of the majority of the parties are putting on a flower, as well as today. The ÖVP has decided to take a button today; after all, it does not have to be a short list, but ÖVP must stand on it – that is a great progress. But that is, and we should be aware of this, a day of living democracy that we live in Austria. This is often shaken because there is also a lot of minor discussion in election campaigns, but, of course, it is also a matter of living and developing democracy in our country. Democracy also means living the dialectics of the contradiction, namely that there are different opinions and at the end of the House a joint decision or consensus must be found and found here in the House. Therefore, I would also like to say one thing clearly, because newspaper commentators are very often spoken of the fact that ideologies no longer need: If one takes ideologies as one's own opinion, which one has considered, then that does not mean that one cannot be compatible on the other hand, but the The art of the House is to find compromises on the basis of one's own opinion anyway, in order to ultimately bring something forward for our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can also be quite proud of the fact that Austria has such a lively and growing democracy in recent months and last year. Many other countries in the world do not. Many people in the world are in prisons because they are fighting for what we are lucky to have achieved here. There will be plenty of time and plenty of opportunity to talk about content, the contradictions, the ideas. We ourselves have already made a sufficient number of requests today, with which we have made clear what we stand for, but it is the responsibility for this ring to live here after the joint. For us, three things are very central: the rule of law – it is of central importance, whether you are sitting on the government bank or on the opposition bank – whether you are a close-to-governmental MP or a member of the opposition – and democracy and for us social democrats, above all, social cohesion. That will be the rule, that will be the points on which we as social democrats, no matter where we sit, even if we are in the opposition, will always look, but the people in the country can rely on us to be the fighters who will not sacrifice social cohesion in our country, and we will not see when others try to sacrifice it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, also about the Bureau of the National Council, which is the item on the agenda. We Socialists nominate Doris Bures, the previous President, for the role of the Second President, because we are convinced that she has or will continue to perform a great service of dignity, prestige, over-participation and further development of the House in the past, but also in the future. I have also felt and received the feedback that many other Members have felt that way in recent years. As far as the Third President Norbert Hofer is concerned, we have in our group all those who have experienced him in recent years exactly the same opinion, namely that, although many things separate us from the FPÖ – I do not think I need to say that in addition – the management, the way in which the Third President's office was exercised by him corresponds exactly to what we expect. That is the question of the President. To say it quite honestly, Mr Klubobmann and party leader Kurz, you do not make it easy for us, because of course we recognize the right of the ÖVP as the strongest party to nominate a president or president, but it has always been the practice of the House – this shows the history – that it is also easy for the other political groups to make it easy to nominate people who are familiar with or familiar with. This has been discussed for a long time with us in the club. Not all are happy, and some will not go along the way, others will say, yes, that is the right of nomination. It's legal, it's clean and right, so a lot of Mrs. Köstinger will also vote, but maybe not because they find it, it's not okay if you haven't introduced yourself before. That is why, honestly, I do not want to break the staff over someone and be as sharp as Mr Strolz, but to say quite openly what it is about us in the future. and my request would be that, if you are elected, you will also be guided by these virtues; we cannot take this from the past, from a previous cooperation, but we can only live it together in the future – namely, to be balanced and extra-participative, to ensure continuity in the further development of parliamentaryism and to bring experience; that is, to fill precisely these virtues with life. We hope it will. I also say quite openly: I would like to thank Karlheinz, because he has all these characteristics and has done his job perfectly. I am also looking forward to further cooperation – it is just as it is in Parliament: sometimes you sit at the front, sometimes you sit back again – because that is what counts at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude: In all the battles that will come in the coming years, in all the intense discussions – sometimes they are outraged, sometimes not – we must be aware that we are working here for our beautiful country Austria. We will do so together in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3645	Next speaker: Mr Herbert Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3669	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to use the first day of a new legislative period today of the Constitutional Session to perhaps give some fundamental considerations here from this pult to the mandates, because it is often so that, especially in the confusion of day-to-day policy, there is no longer the possibility of doing so in the form that we would often wish. I would remind all of you, ladies and gentlemen, of the following: We all, every one of us, whether it is a re-elected representative or a newcomer in this house, sit here for a single reason, and this only reason is that the Sovereign has brought us the people – yes, the people, that is, the people to whom we have been praised in the Constitution – here. I believe it is very important for all of us never to crack this umbilical cord, but to maintain this connection in everything we do. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Stroll.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I like to be a member of the so-called House. I am very pleased, it fills me with pride, and I am aware of the responsibility associated with it. What I do not want is to interpret the House as so high that it comes as being lifted up. As a Freedom Party, we are aware that, in the positions we take, whether we sit here in plenary or later, some of us may be in another position on the government bank or elsewhere, we must not lose this ground liability and soil. I think that's very important. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] So we have been given our mandates, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the rules of democracy and the rules of the rule of law, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the equality that unites us all. This is the common foundation, which for me is more substantial than the difference in ideologies or some other issue. Now I say In addition: So much dialectic must be that this foundation is also the starting point for these differences to unfold and spread at all. For this very reason, ladies and gentlemen, I now add something that is very important to me: For me, for us liberals, only democrats are sitting here in this House. In this House, as elected ambassadors, only democrats are sitting here. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is up to my ladies and gentlemen not to allow anyone of us to agree this attitude or to question it. I take this into account in all clarity, because it is an important point that so-called intellectuals like to overlook in their intellectuality. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It should be those who perhaps think in this direction – also from outside into this House – but also a teaching that there is a party that has seen its program more and more in recent years, another party that is represented here and is one of the winners of the last election to agree on this democratic principle. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is only that party that has not held particularly high the moral index finger, which in truth has been an ideological one, in this House. This should make all those who believe that they can decide from the high Ross down on democratic attitudes and break the staff over others. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I add something because it is just as important: There are only entire democrats and no sub-democratics here in the National Council, and there are only parties that as a whole are government-enabled here, and not parties that are partly government-able. That belongs together, and this is very important to me on this day. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] . You, Mr President, in the last row, which you are now appearing in another group, may feel affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the voters spoke in October. Some of us have become stronger. I am pleased that our party is also one of those who have become much stronger. I think that can only be good for Austria. Some have stagnated in this election. I would perhaps like to interpret this in a summary way: There is a certain stagnation of growth, or perhaps the limits of staging have also been shown. This too is a possible interpretation of the result that stagnation expresses. The chancellor has already turned the meaning of the production into a different light in a 180 degree turn today than it was a few months ago. – Very well, that is, the reading of the voters has already worked, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Some have gone – I think it is also this form of intolerance that I spoke about earlier – some of them are new to the National Council, and some of the new ones are already gone. I think it is inappropriate to show resentment in connection with Peter Pilz and to speak of media justice. If there's an expert in media justice, ladies and gentlemen, then he's called Peter Pilz! [[It was in favour of FPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Neos representatives.]] Now the question is: What's a good democrat? . I believe that a good democrat is the one who is not only on the election evening, but also in the follow-up to it. It is not a bad loser, and a good democrat is the one who is not only a superior winner on the election night, but also a superior winner throughout the next legislative period. – This is a good thing for good democrats. The change of power, the change from opposition to the government bank, the change of political constellations is not a nuisance, it is not an operational accident, it is the substance of democracy. Only in this way is the democratic principle actually alive! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that the population has chosen change in October, and I want to throw a few headlines on what we understand by change. For me, change means straightening things out of lot – just think about the question of mass immigration, about the problem of integration, or about security abuse! It is clear to us that these things need to be brought to fruition again. For us, change means that if developments have long lost their measure, the house mind will finally be applied again. Just think about the overarching debt policy: We have heard each time again, the debt mountain must not grow bigger, and we have become more and more indebted and indebted. Change also means for me to mention a third point – this list is not complete in the case of Weitem – that one has to act forward-lookingly and in politics have to say goodbye to a mentality of rear-handling. When I talk about forward-looking policies, I think about the health system, about care, about the education system and also about the labour market. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this conviction, which for me is more than a new style – a new style for me has one, well, we call it something external, but this attitude comes from an inner conviction – with this attitude we have entered the coalition negotiations, with this attitude we are also leading these coalition negotiations and with this attitude we have also come as the opposition party to those 26 percent of the votes that have made us as strong as we are here today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that all the other parties have taken over liberal content – some more, some less, but all have served themselves – is the greatest recognition and the greatest compliment they can make for our policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is only one party that has believed not to have to write off from us. We miss them in this plenary today. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about one another, it has been much spoken of in common. I would now call on all of us to take up the evidence of this. We have the first opportunity to choose the new National Council Presidency. There have already been many praises and recognitions for the candidates and our candidates, and I can only join them. I believe that it is a crucial point that one lives in this function the spirit of the mutual and the spirit of the community, without therefore abandoning one's own position and without therefore trying to eliminate the differences. It's not going without that dialectic. The thing is not black or white, but it's a dialectic relationship we're dealing with here. I think that not only our candidate Norbert Hofer has proved in his office that he is best able and capable of doing so – he has conducted the office objectively, he has kept it in mind, he has done it prudently, he has conducted it extra-participally, and that is exactly what he will do in the future and what we expect from a national council president – ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that this praise should also be expressed by the current President of the National Council Doris Bures; she has deserved it as well. It has shown that balance and cohesion are among its great strengths, and that is why it is clear to us that we also support them for a further legislative period in this function. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Madam President, I am not at all angry with you, if you are a little more severe with me at times. I simply interpret it as a democratic form of affection that we feel for each other. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[President Bures weighs his head.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and of course I am also convinced that Elisabeth Köstinger, as a candidate for the ÖVP, will exercise this new role responsibly at the head of the National Council Presidency, with a large span and with an honest tolerance. I think we should all give her this advance of confidence and put a sign with the vote on the National Council Presidency that we have all learned from the lessons of this election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3883	Mrs Irmgard Griss is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3905	Mr President! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Émile Durkheim describes democracy as “that political form through which society reaches the purest consciousness of itself”. “A people is all the more democratic,” writes Drurkheim, “the greater the role that advice, reflection and critical thinking play in dealing with public affairs.” This makes it possible for a policy that is characterised by reason and understanding, which meets their responsibilities and creates trust. Trust in democracy has fallen continuously in recent years and decades – in the classical Western liberal democracies, but also in Austria. In the spring of this year, a sora survey was published, according to which 43 percent of respondents want a strong man at the head of the state. 23 percent agreed that one should “have a strong leader who does not have to take care of a parliament and elections. ” This is a worrying development, which is also reflected in the blossoming of populism. The question is therefore: What can we, the Members of this newly elected Parliament, do to increase confidence in democracy? I think a first step could be attention, care and propriety. This would increase Parliament's reputation and thus increase confidence in democracy. What do I mean by that? Attention means listening, not only being physically present, but also being spiritually open to what is said in speeches and debates. Attention is more than attention. He who is careful encounters what is said with understanding and respect. It rejects applications and suggestions. flexibly because they come from the wrong party. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Of course, we should encounter each other with propriety. This applies not only to dealing with men and women, but also to dealing with each other in general. – This may sound a bit governmental now – but as the oldest Member of Parliament, I am sure it is. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] The right way to deal with each other was always a topic, and it is more up-to-date than ever after this election campaign and the events of recent times. Attention, care and propriety will not only increase Parliament's reputation and strengthen confidence in democracy. This, it could be called Triple A of Parliament, will also make a decisive contribution to the success of parliamentary work in the sense of a policy characterised by understanding and reason, which fulfils its responsibility and creates confidence. I think we should consider whether we are not giving ourselves rules that we hold in a code of conduct, a good governance code. I believe that this would strengthen Parliament's reputation and also our work. In this sense I can wish all of us with a Styrian happiness all the good for the joint work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3968	The next item is Mrs Stephanie Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3989	Madam President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of the Republic! 29. June 2016, 17:00: I was standing at the Wiener Museumsquartier and was incredibly amazed and relieved, because after just four months of preparation we had stamped the first trade fair for refugees from the ground. More than 80 companies and more than 3,500 refugees came to the museum with a positive asylum notice, and we were able to create more than 100 jobs there. These are people who are now paying taxes. These are people who are thus even more confronted with our culture and who are thus independent. Only in this way can integration work! But what led me to start such an initiative that I found such a thing? – Political confusion: I was tired of just discussing integration and not really talking about solutions; so I had to tackle myself. Said, done, and I was amazed how many people took part. The strength of social engagement is amazing when you offer the right framework for it. As a social entrepreneur, as a founder, as a human being, I am now standing here as a young woman. And yes, it's also the political starkness that brings me here because I want to go along with it. That's why I was asked four months ago and that's why I'm standing here to get involved. Although I have always been interested in and committed to social issues, my access to them has always been a pragmatic: To identify problems, to find a solution and to implement them. I have already mentioned my own political audacity; and there was encouragement from many, many people who have said: Okay, go into politics! We need people who want to get dressed. – And opportunities: rich is just an example. Today we will elect a new President of the National Council or a new President of the National Council. As President of Parliament, the future National Council shall: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: But what do I expect from one or a new President of Parliament? – We are living in a time of rapid change and have been chosen by the population to find solutions to the questions of our time – solutions! I expect a National Council President or a President to create framework conditions and an environment in which we can work in the service of society in a content-oriented and pragmatic manner on these solutions. In times of growing uncertainty, there is no room for partyideological sensibilities. From climate change to the digitization of the world of work, these and many other topics are not solved by witches, not by populism, not by the playing out of the poorest of our society. I expect you to stand firm against all attempts to separate this House, which pursue the separation and not the end. It's about agreement. In my opinion, hetze did not deserve a place in the Austrian Parliament! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list, as well as on SPÖ and NEOS delegates.]] I myself have spent the last few years in a professional environment that has shown me how fast our world is changing. My work with young and emerging entrepreneurs has shown me both the opportunities for digitization and the challenges and questions we face. It starts with the children and young people. How do we prepare our children and young people to deal with digital technologies, especially since there are still over a third of the jobs they will practice. That is where we must face up to this fact! Meat from the test tube, self-driving electric cars, automatic diagnostics of X-ray images – I am not talking about a science fiction novel here, these are innovations that already exist in 2017. We have to face digital change here, we have to look at creating jobs in Austria, and we must not give these innovations to Silicon Valley and Co. Studies show that, based on today's state of the art, many jobs will be automated in the future. The question is: How do we support people who are driven out of the labour market by this digitization and secure their participation? Very, very important and one of the most important questions is: How do we make sure that all people in this digital age are taken along and benefit from it? Digitalization must be for the benefit of all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to invite you: Let us see problems, find solutions and implement them in the interests of all the citizens of our country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4057	Next speaker: Mrs Deputies Dr.in Angelika tiny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4078	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Dear visitors, seers and seers! First of all, I should like to join the congratulations of my previous speakers to you, honourable Members. Yes, 15th. October has been an exciting day for all of us, because the citizens have voted on what way they want to take for the future of Austria and whom they give this responsibility. Of course, this day was particularly exciting for the candidates of the new People's Party, because in the sense of more direct democracy, we have decided that the electorate mandates are awarded by the direct preferred votes of our electorate. On behalf of my colleagues, I should like to thank the electorate for their direct support, and I can assure them that we will deal with this trust very carefully. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Politics is not a self-interest. The big and small concerns of the citizens are at the heart of all of us. I am convinced that all Members here in the House will deal with their new tasks with heart blood and passion. Emotions belong to politics; one should, however, have them under control in the political discourse, because we all know that arguments, the louder and more aggressive they are presented, do not become more correct or wrong, that each survey confirms that the citizens expect us to cooperate constructively, and that one cannot win elections with intervening attacks. I would like to thank you very much, Madam President, for our President Karlheinz Kopf, but also for President Ing. Hofer for the constructive, excellent and extra-partial work in the last four years. [[It is a pleasure with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to support our candidate Elisabeth Köstinger. [[Abg. Sherak: We don't know her!]] In my capacity as Vice-President of SME Europe, I have come to know and appreciate her at European level. It has done a great job at European level over the past nine years, and this connection between national and European Parliament is a very special USP. Elisabeth Köstinger has proved in the past that she has potential for many functions. The other political groups have all recognized this, and that is why it will be an excellent President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scherak: She'll be a foreign minister or something.]] We are committed to cooperation and, of course, we will also support the candidates of the other political groups. I wish all of us a good constructive cooperation in the sense of our citizens and in the sense of the Austrian site.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4155	The next item is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4179	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is not only a historically significant day – the November pogromes have been mentioned – but today is also a very important day for women, I find personally. After all, today 63 women have moved into Parliament again or again, which is a smooth third of all Members. I am extremely pleased that 46.15 percent of the Members of our own group are women. I can especially welcome you 24, but also all 63 women in total. [[In the case of SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and Liste Pilz, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken on very high responsibility with the words 'I praise'. In fact, it is a moving and special moment to hear these vow formulas, to speak them and to follow them. I particularly welcome the fact that the ÖVP wants to nominate a woman to the President – but I would have liked to, I must admit, that you, Mrs Köstinger, have a few minutes to present yourself here, perhaps also against the use of the House, if not in the clubs. We would like to have a brief insight into whether and how you would like to continue what your officials Barbara Prammer and Doris Bures have done so vehemently, namely to open the house: an opening for the population, especially for the young people, to see this house as a place of meeting. – I don’t know how you’re going to do this, and I’m sorry you didn’t use these minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that every law we are going to adopt here as parliamentarians does not only have to look at the economic, the ecological, the budgetary and many other effects. No, we must also take particular account of the effects of the laws which we decide here! With this great responsibility, we also need to articulate that we are confident that we stand for continuity, for planning for citizens, even in the sense of comprehensive security that they need. There must be no change to the bad. There must be further development of the country – because even if you have not only left positive words for the past today, I tell you that in recent years the country has been enormously furthering in all the conflicts. We stand as a good country today, not only economic policy, but also with regard to the lives of citizens, which we are here in this XXVI. The legislative period with one or other legislative initiative, of course, still wants to improve. The question of how we are dealing with each other here in the house is also one thing. I have been a member of Parliament since 1999, with a break of eight years as a member of the government, and I have already experienced some sexist behaviour in the past. We have experienced a relationship that is not exemplary when men are standing with their hands in the pockets of the pants, when women have joined the speaker's mouth, and have behaved very unpleasantly here. [[Abg. Strache: Was that Michael Häupl?]] What is true here is that such a thing as the one experienced in the past can no longer happen in the future also applies to all Members of Parliament if they are outside the House. I must therefore say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Apparently Peter Pilz is not a victim! He drew the consequences, late, but still, and that was important and right. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want to further develop things in this context, namely a strong equal treatment attorneyship and a strong equal treatment commission. Even if some here want to give little of sexual harassment and sexual abuse – these things are not small! Every woman who encounters such a thing has the right to defend himself and to articulate himself, whether it is on the Internet or when women turn to the corresponding places. We must strengthen these positions here in the House and we must not weaken them. It's about the women's budget being increased. It is about the institutions being strengthened. It is about women who have jobs being paid well, that is, a wage transparency law is urgently in place! This should be one of the first projects we are implementing together. It is also important that you do not destroy what we have achieved for children, especially kindergarten children and school children. We must not go back on this subject, but move forward so that our children not only find all day schools, but also a good situation of school autonomy, so that other forms of pedagogy can be tried out without any attempt at school's own discretion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] It is also about the little ones in society who need a legal claim to a care place so that the parents can be calmed down that the children are in good care. Young people too must have every chance. We still need open university access without social selection. This and much more belong to a good life, which should also be a healthy life. That also means healthy food; Child health and adult health should not only be a concern for us in a curative, treating sense, but above all in the field of prevention. I would also like to ask you to: Do not destroy the plant that was set in 2013 with the health reform, when for the first time all the institutions together have made the vision to further develop the health of Austrians! We have a few years ahead of us who face great challenges. Please, let's do this together with a good deal, for the citizens of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4239	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4260	Madam President. Mr President! The most important task for this Parliament over the next five years will be to act as a parliament at a level with the Federal Government, to act as a self-confident parliament and to take parliamentarianism seriously. This means that we should not like to let the social partners or the federal government dictate any laws and the Parliament simply turn them off. This means that we should take the legislative process seriously, and should not accept that there are two-week review periods, then a 40-page amendment proposal will be tabled in the last minute, and we will finally adopt a bad or even faulty law. This means that it must be concluded with this unbearable delay practice that ideas and applications are simply postponed just because they come from the opposition and then land somewhere in drawers and are no longer discussed. This also means that, as a Parliament, we clearly reject proposals that are clearly unconstitutional, which clearly restrict fundamental and human rights and want to eliminate them. A self-confident Parliament takes itself seriously and a self-confident, independent Parliament also elects a self-confident and independent national council president. Unfortunately, in this context we have experienced a very unworthy spectacle from the ÖVP in the last few days. We have experienced that the head of the party of the ÖVP with Elisabeth Köstinger nominates a person for the office of the National Council President, who has never been here as a member of the High House, who wants to move directly as Secretary General of the ÖVP from the party headquarters of the ÖVP to the excess-party office of the National Council President. We do not know from this person how she wants to do this at all, since we have never been able to experience it here in the House; a person who is currently conducting the government negotiations and who, at the same time, obviously wants to be the President of the National Council, and of whom we do not even know whether she wants to exercise this office here at all longer or perhaps rather switch to a government office as soon as possible. All these circumstances, I think, raise serious doubts as to whether the ÖVP takes the office of the President of the National Council, the Office of the President of the National Council, which is at least the second most important office in the State seriously at all – or whether Sebastian Kurz uses this function of the National Council President only to install a placeholder because he does not yet know who will finally take over a ministerial office in the government. We therefore invited you, Mrs Köstinger, to our parliamentary club so that we could have discussed with you all these questions, which I think are very serious. You could have explained to us your motivation why you are candidates here as the National Council President. We have invited you to explain to us how, from your role as Secretary-General of the ÖVP, you want to switch to the over-party office of the National Council President, as you imagine; so that you can explain to us how you, as President of a self-confident Parliament, want to act with a view to the government in the future, and always if the Federal Government wants to protect certain rules that Parliament should protect parliamentarianism, even if they are violated; so that you can explain to us whether you want to exercise the office of the President of the National Council at all in the long term or in a few months, if perhaps the position of the Foreign Minister will be waived, switch there or seek another government office. You could have resolved all these doubts if you had responded to our invitation. You're just not that! You have not even given us the opportunity to discuss with you these questions, which, as I think, are very serious and very relevant. And now, and I really don't understand that, I expect you, as a Member of this House, to be my President, without you having discussed these questions with me without giving me the opportunity, as a Member, to discuss such questions with you. You expect me to give you my voice, although I do not know you de facto and do not know how you want to exercise this function here. You expect me to vote for you, although you obviously do not even feel it necessary to go out here in this debate and tell us how you want to take up the office of the President of the National Council. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] This is completely incomprehensible from my point of view, and I will certainly not do this as a self-confident parliamentarian. I believe that such a disdain, such disdain, such ignorance to the National Council must not be allowed to please this House and I am sure I will not like it as a Member of this House. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Straster: Who wrote this speech?]] – I normally write the speeches for me, Mr Strasser. I don't know who's writing your speeches, and I don't really care. I believe that what you did not understand is that you are damaging this office by this strange post-chaker, by this funny way of moving station and we do not even know whether Mrs. Köstinger wants to carry out this office permanently at all. I think that this is a point of view to Parliament, which shows how the new EIA is dealing with Parliament, which shows that Parliamentaryism does not matter to you because you have zero respect for this House. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] In line with the use of the House, of course, the office of the President of the National Council of the strongest of the political groups has been granted, and I will be following these uses today, of course, to elect a member of the ÖVP as the President of the National Council, a Member of which I know he will be self-confidence with the Federal Government, of which I know he will bring the important over-participation for this office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Please, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Strache: A young woman does not trust this office - -!]] Mr Strache, if you are just blaming me for disdain, then you really have a very basic problem with understanding what I have just said to you. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] It is not a question of Mrs Köstinger being a woman in any way. I'm sorry for your misgivings! Today I will vote for the office of President of the National Council Karlheinz, because I believe that he will bring along the over-participation referred to, and I hope that many other self-confident parliamentarians will do so today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4351	The next item is Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4373	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. President and dear guests at the gallery! Dear sisters in front of the screens at home! Yes, there we are, the free Members of the Pilz list, “and we are very pleased about this. [...] Not everyone is happy with us, but that can still be.” – At the beginning of the last legislative period, Mr Strolz similarly commented on the introduction of his list here into this House. Today, dear Matthias, I can see what you meant at the time! It is indeed an indescribable feeling that makes you catch and also proud if you can join the National Council together with dedicated and truly excellent colleagues, if you are commissioned by the population to work together for possibly five years in the service of the people of this wonderful country. All the more so, I am glad that this opportunity was given and given to us at all, because it has not been made easy for us in the past weeks and months. At the beginning of one of the hardest election struggles in the Second Republic, as I heard, started with Dirty Campaigning and shakes of the worst variety, a small circle of idealists has come together – a circle of idealists who said: We are starting a joint attempt, namely the attempt to: To make politics away from rigid party devices, away from party ideology, away from imposed constraints and bans of thought, thus a policy based solely on what is factually correct, which is fundamental to the well-being of the population, and on the progress of the country and social justice. Day after day, more and more people have joined our movement and encouraged us to continue this path. It was small steps, small steps in a relatively short time with very low budget, which, as you can see, led to a big leap that enabled free Members, free and independent Members here in Parliament to decide and discuss in terms of the population. I would like to thank all those who, with their candidate, with their support in the election movement and not least with their voice, have set a sign of a new, open policy in this country. We have now achieved this goal, but we are not yet done with it. The project, which has been launched here with us, with our candidacy and has been fixed with our entry into the High House today, is at the very beginning. Looking back on my experiences in recent years alone, I know how much work lies ahead of us. If it continues as in the past, then the government parties – with all due respect for black and blue – will join together in a gag agreement. There will be little room for creative solutions, for timely solutions involving the population. The space to be able to make free at all will become very, very tight. If it continues as in the past, then it is already clear that the leaders of the parties will take over the government offices and thus not only the government, but also the government parties will be under their control. The separation of power provided for in the Constitution is a rather theoretical one from these points of view, if I may express it quite openly. And if we continue to do so, then we will have committee meetings, which will take place in the event of postponement and will not take place in terms of transparency, creativity and parliamentary work. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I have rejected all of this in the past, and I would also like to continue to contribute to ensuring that the best solutions in content are put forward and that decisions are not taken according to party boundaries, political colors or ideology. I would like to remind all those who have already been represented here in the House during the last legislative period, of what the debate on a guarantee of maintenance has failed. It was not an independent access, it was not a solution-oriented access, it was only solution proposals in the interest of its own parties. Before I finish, I would like to fulfill my promise from the last session before the election. We do not abandon the 50,000 single parents and their 70,000 children. Today, we have tabled a self-employed proposal to be able to save just these people from the poverty trap. I expect a President/President to ensure and promote the independence of Parliament. That is why I would like to agree with my previous speaker and express Karlheinz's full confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4443	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. There is a desire to carry out the elections in election cells, so I will do the same. [[12:09:02]] Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4475	The first is the election of the President of the National Council. There is a proposal for an election on Elisabeth Köstinger. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be held secret to the election of the President, with votes in favour. I am now briefly interrupting the session in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. The session was suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4526	I'll start the interrupted session again. The preparations have now been completed. I also ask the writer – she has already taken her place – to stay ready. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Presidential Conference on 19 October. In September 2016, it was established that the “expenditure of the polls against Abhaken on a list of names” should be carried out in electoral cells. Therefore, this new procedure is being carried out for the first time today as follows: The names of the Members shall be called by written procedure, as in alphabetical order so far. In the event of a call for a name, please first go to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate – from me to the right next to the electoral cells – and announce your name. Afterwards, you will receive the poll that can be used, along with Kuvert. For the election, use only this official voting paper. On this is the name of the desired candidate or candidate to write. After completing the poll in the electoral cell, it must be thrown into the urn provided in the closed envelope. I now ask Members to stand ready for the election of the President of the National Council, and to start writing on the name call. – Please, Mrs Mag.a. Steinacker; You will be replaced later by Mr Gahr.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4575	I assume that all of them have used their right to vote. The vote will thus end. The officials of the House who are responsible for this will now make the polling of votes under the supervision of the scribes. To that end, I am briefly interrupting the sitting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4613	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and ask you to take your seats again. I now announce the election result: Members cast: 181; of which: 175. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 88. Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger was in favour of 117 votes. Mr Kopf had 56 votes in favour. Two votes were taken by other Members. Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger was thus elected President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4685	I ask the newly elected President whether she accepts this election.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4706	I'll take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4721	Mrs. National Council President! I congratulate you on your choice and wish you every possible good for this task. [[General condolences.]] [[12:54:11]] Farewell address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4755	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just as you, Madam President, are about to do so, I gave my opening speech three years ago. At that time, I said, “every man has an office in his very personal way, and the office inevitably characterizes the people who hold it. ” Today, in retrospect, I am a little surprised at how much these words have been found on me, how much this office has influenced and changed me. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell you that I am grateful that this office was entrusted to me for three years. In my political career, I was allowed to carry out very different functions with different tasks. As a member of the National Council and Minister, I represented interests, fought conflicts, met with majority voting and realized concrete projects. Yes, I have sometimes fought hard when it was about financially securing centres for the protection of violence or investing in the infrastructure. In a portrait one wrote about me at the time, I don't have two elbows, but four. As President of the National Council, on the other hand, it was one of my tasks to preserve the rights of the National Council and to ensure that the tasks entrusted to it were fulfilled. Many different interests and opinions are formulated here in this House. My goal was and is to achieve as good a result as possible in agreement and in broad consensus. The foundation for the joy of political shaping, in common, in taking responsibility was perhaps laid in my childhood. As a daughter of a single mother with five siblings, it was of course that I left school at the age of 15 and went to work to contribute to the family income. It was also natural for the big ones to stand up for the little ones and that we are there for each other, that we take responsibility for each other. And it was clear to me very early that it needed the common, because you're stronger together than alone. This idea can also be transferred to the whole, as the writer Heinrich Mann said: “Democracy is basically the recognition that we are all responsible for each other.” You, ladies and gentlemen, have taken on great responsibility for our country with today's Angelobung – for all people, including those who are often too little in the centre of political attention. It was always important to me to open the gates of the House for as many as possible. In this way, we have invited the Austrian poverty conference to the parliament of the excluded. There, people with disabilities, mental illness and homelessness have discussed with Members at a glance, because poverty is not too often a self-indebted fate, but a social problem. We have unanimously decided to grant a victim's pension to former home children who have experienced violence and abuse. At the State Act gesture of responsibility, official Austria and the Church apologized to those concerned after decades of ignoring and looking away. These people now know Parliament as the place where their suffering was finally officially recognized. [[General condolences.]] We have also heard in our midst those who, as the last witnesses, have reported on the atrocities of National Socialism. To give them hearing is our duty, because – the former German Federal President Richard von Weizsäcker expressed it this way –: “He who closes his eyes before the past becomes blind to the present.” And on this very day, the day the November pogroms of 1938 are growing, it is especially important for me to thank the survivors: for telling us and our children about it today. They urge us to be a strong, courageous democracy, to stand firm against racism, anti-Semitism and fascism. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one is born as a Democrat. Young people must be able to learn and experience democracy and parliamentarianism. That is why our education offer for students is so important, and I have opened it to apprentices. I am convinced that art is also a suitable means of creating more awareness of democratic processes. That is why on the last day of the open door we initiated an extraordinary art project in our old Parliament building: Austrian authors, musicians, actors were invited to think about the state of our democracy in all freedom. This sometimes happened critically and mercilessly, but in any case insurmountable. 15 000 visitors, as many as never before, have participated in this artistic discourse. We are living today at a time of rapid technological and scientific change, and it is often difficult to keep pace with these changes and to estimate their impact properly. Together with the Academy of Sciences and the Austrian Institute of Technology, we have therefore launched the project Technology Assessment. As a Member of Parliament, they will be given a systematic overview of scientific developments for the first time and can, if necessary, request very specific studies on individual topics. Science cannot take political decision-making from us, but it can provide us with guidance for our actions so that we can already respond properly to the challenges of tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have also carried out tasks that our Parliament has never faced. The Bureau of the National Council held the Presidency for the first time in two very labor-intensive examination committees, and for 202 days it took over and held the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. That is why I would like to look very cordially at the Second President of the National Council, Karlheinz Kopf and the Third President of the National Council, Ing. Norbert Hofer thank you for the good and trusting cooperation. Thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] Yes, and as you can see, for the first time in the history of the Republic, Parliament has left its historic place at the ring. We have successfully completed a challenging move to the alternate quarter – all in addition to the parliamentary daily business. In the last legislative period, we have passed 468 laws, which were associated with much preliminary work in the parliamentary committees, and 30 percent of all decisions were even unanimously adopted. All of this would not have been possible without the professional work and the daily use of so many people. I would like to thank you personally for all these great achievements, but also for the many small, often overlooked contributions. I would like to thank the club members of the political groups represented in Parliament very much. I thank all the Members of this House. I would like to thank the Director of Parliament and his two alternates. And I would like to thank Parliament's overall management and all its employees. Thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] I think we can really say together: Yes, we have a lot and we have put a lot in place together! Yes, Parliament can also be a house of commonness! That is why I am very optimistic about the future of this House. I have come to know it as a contentious and dialogueable discussion, capable of fighting and capable of resolving it. At the head of this House are now you, Madam President, and I am assuming that you too will set your accents and you too will shape this office. Ladies and gentlemen! The American writer Mark Twain had over 100 years ago at the end of the 19th century. ==References====External links== He also wrote reports from the Reichsrat in Vienna. That's what it says about the Parliament's operation at the time: “While other law-making bodies work with their heads in particular, it does so primarily with the heart of the Austrian people.” I think it definitely needs both: Strong parliamentaryism needs a sharp mind, but also a heart in the sense of passion and commitment to the people of our country. I wish you all and this House every possible good, good luck. Live the Republic of Austria! [[Further general, standing condolences.]] [[President Bures leaves the Bureau out of office and gives Members a hand to Kern, Schieder, Strache, Hofer, Strasser, Kurz, Wöginger and Head.]] [[13:07]] [[President Köstinger shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[General condolences.]] [[13:08:19]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4903	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor and joy to stand before you and before you today as President of the National Council. With great humility and, above all, gratitude, I take the choice and will do my best to be a President for everyone in this House. Over the past eight years, I have been very passionate about the concerns of the Austrians in the European Parliament. I am a glowing Austrian and, at the same time, a glowing European. I have always understood myself as a link between the interests of the political groups, but also within Europe, and this experience as a member of the European Parliament and, above all, as a link between different opinions, I would particularly like to contribute to the work in my new role. I have always been in favour of a political culture, which presents the common foreign and security policy, and a culture in which we have a common but above all positive relationship. It is a great honor for me to be able to follow strong women in my new office after Barbara Prammer and Doris Bureszwei, who have influenced this function over the past few years. Thank you very much. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public ……]] We are gathering here in Hofburg today, because we have just begun renewing our real Parliament building. I would like to invite all of you here to take the opportunity to give Parliament not only a new cover but also to renew it from the inside over the next few years. It is our common opportunity to do things differently and to live a new political culture. Just as in the old Parliament building walls, floors and facilities are renewed, we also need to renew how we deal with each other, how we do our political work and, above all, how we talk about our political work. If we want to do something new, we can build on a valuable foundation. In this legislative period we celebrate the 100th. Our Republic's birthday, the 100th anniversary. The birthday of the Austrian democracy. We must never forget: The generations before us have made many sacrifices so that we can sit here today. We must never forget that countless people leave their lives had to be in prison or have been in prison for dreaming of freedom and democracy. Especially today, on the anniversary of the Reichspogromnacht, we are obliged to all those who have spent their lives for our democracy and for our freedom. We must always be aware that it is not a matter of course to be allowed, as freely elected representatives of the people, to make direction decisions for our country. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public ……]] It is our duty to live a fair and, above all, living parliamentarianism, in which all voices are heard and above all all opinions count. If I look at the plenary in this way, I know that in the next few years we will hear many opinions and have many lively debates. I see many passionate politicians, Members who represent their honest convictions, no matter what party they come from. I see, above all, very many young faces that have come to us through this election, and what I personally care about is more women in the House than ever before. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public ……]] However, it is not only the Members of Parliament, but many employees who create great things every day. I have deep respect for the work done here every day. A warm thank you. [[In the case of ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with SPÖ Members.]] As a Member of Parliament, it is not only our task to make the major decisions in this country, but also, above all, to be in close contact with our citizens. Many of you here are deeply rooted in the regions and have a very intense relationship with the people you sit here in the National Council. It is a very important part of our work to listen carefully to our electorate, to represent their concerns and at the same time to give them a speech and an answer to our work in Parliament. Like all of you here in recent months, I have listened to a lot of people throughout Austria, which is important to them. Again and again I have heard – and I think there will have been some similar things: Stop fighting at last and prefer to work for us! This is also the task we have to fulfil here in this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] In the coming years, we have the opportunity not only to change our Parliament from outside but also to renew it from the inside. I would therefore like to make an appeal to They all address: an appeal for good cooperation, an appeal for respectful dealings with each other and an appeal for a passionate debate, but always on the matter. It is up to us to live a new political culture. We have it in our hands whether we continue to cover each other with negative comments and sometimes even insulting comments or whether we may sometimes be able to get through to say something positive about the other. Each individual has it in his hand, every day, in every conversation and in every single word message here in the House. In addition to being respectful with each other, the transparency of political work is a major concern to me. My role as President of the National Council will be to ensure that this transparency is also possible for everyone. I can assure you that I do my best to ensure that everyone and everyone can do the best possible work as a Member of Parliament. It will be our common mission to involve citizens as best as possible and to live a political culture that makes people believe in politics again. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as by Mr Strolz and Mr Bernhard.]] But everyone who has built a house once knows: You don't build a house in one day, and you don't build a house alone either. Just as our Parliament building will not go overnight, so our parliamentaryism will not be renewed from today to tomorrow. I can promise you, on my part, that I will work for it precisely across the party borders, and invite everyone to participate so that at the end of this legislative period we can not only sit in a renovated Parliament building but also live a new political culture. Let's build on this Austria together! [[It is a pleasure with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] [[13:17]] [[13:17:29]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5014	We shall come to the election of the Second President or the Second President. There is a motion for a resolution on Doris Bures. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes made against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I am interrupting the sitting briefly for the necessary preparations.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5062	I will resume the interrupted session and ask Mr. Wolfgang Zanger to start with the name call; Ms. Angela Lueger will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5099	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this will now vote, as before. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5142	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 181; of which: 174. The absolute majority of valid votes are 88. There were 115 votes in favour of DorisBures. Mr Kern had 23 votes in favour. 37 votes were taken by other Members. [[See correction by President Köstinger p. 51.]] Mrs Doris Bures is thus elected Second President of the National Council. [[More generally, by the SPÖ.]] [[Members go to the newly elected Second President and congratulate him.]] I'm asking the electorate if she's taking the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5219	I'd like to take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5234	I congratulate the honourable Members on their election and invite them to sit at the Bureau. [[13:57:05]] Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5255	We now come to the election of the Third President or the Third President. There is a proposal for an election on Ing. Norbert Hofer. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes made against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I ask the author, Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker, to begin with the name call; Mr Hermann Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5306	The vote will end. As in the previous elections, the officials of the House responsible for this will make the votes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5346	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 178; of which: 158 votes. The absolute majority of valid votes are 80. It was due to ing. Norbert Hofer132 votes. [[General applause as well as long-lasting, standing applause with the FPÖ.]] [[Members go to the newly elected Third President and congratulate him.]] 26 votes were taken by other Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5402	That's ing. Norbert Hofer was elected Third President of the National Council. I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5436	I thank myself and accept the choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5457	I congratulate Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I also announce a correction of the results of the Second President's election: 36 votes, not 37, were taken by other Members. [[The remaining 36 votes were for Members: Head: 4, Rendi-Wagner: 4, Stäger: 4, Drozda: 3, Heinisch-Hosek: 3, Lueger: 3, Hofer: 2, Muchitsch: 2, Androsch: 1, Bayr: 1, Duzdar: 1, Jarolim: 1, Kuntzl: 1, Lightenfried: 1, Lindner: 1, Lopatka: 1, Preiner: 1, Sandler: 1, Arbitrator: 1.]] As announced, I am now interrupting the session on the implementation of the 360-degree photography. The 360-degree recording will be used for the documentation of this meeting and will take a few minutes. To get a nice recording, I'm looking for you to stay in your places. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5511	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[14:36:56]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and the folders and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5547	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. Since there is only one election proposal, according to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I do not make this election by voting by standing up and sitting. Furthermore, the choice of the authors and the authors, as well as the folders and folders is made under one. Is there any objection to this procedure? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. We'll make our choice. It is my proposal, by Mr Hermann Gahr, Mr Mag.a Michaela Steinacker, Mr Angela Lueger, Mr Erwin Preiner, Mr Wolfgang Zanger on writers as well as Johann Singer, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, Mag. Gerald Loacker and Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl to select folders or folders. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this election proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I also ask in this case whether all the electorate will accept the election. – Everyone takes the choice. Thank you very much. This is also the purpose of this agenda. [[14:38:59]] 4. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5680	So we get to the 4th. Agenda item. According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the number of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election. For the main committee, 21 members are proposed by common accord. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the ÖVP Club 7 members, on the SPÖ Club 6 members, on the FPÖ Club 6 members, on the NEOS Club 1 member and on the Pilz Club list also 1 member. On the basis of the lists I have received, the following Members have been elected: from the ÖVP-Klub: Werner Amon, MBA, Martina Diesner-Wais, Peter Haubner, Elisabeth Köstinger, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mag.a Michaela Steinacker and August Wöinger ; from the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures, Mag. Christian Kern, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl, Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Mag. Andreas Schieder ; from the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Dr.in Dagmar Belakovich and Anneliese Kitzmüller ; from the NEOS Club: May. Dr. Matthias Strolz; from the Pillow Club List: May. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl. The election and appointment of the members of the main committee have also been carried out. [[14:41:24]] 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5888	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. I would like to begin with the following permanent committees: Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee and Budget Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the President, who shall be deemed to be elected. After consulting at the Presidential Conference, a number of 21 members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Inconsistency Committee, the Immunity Committee and the Budget Committee, each with 7 members and replacement members on the SPÖ and FPÖ, each with one member and one replacement member on the NEOS and the Pilz list. We shall proceed to the vote. I shall vote on the Committee size of the Inconsistency Committee, the Immunities Committee and the Budget Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for a committee size of 21 members and replacement members to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes announced by the President's clubs and thus as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Members and replacement members as well as their functions are actively available on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament> Committees.]] [[14:43:58]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5987	We are now coming to the 6th and the last item on the agenda. The Committee consists of a total of 26 members elected by the National Council and the Federal Council each half. The 13 members and substitute members of the National Council are divided into the clubs by d’Hondt as follows: 5 members of the ÖVP and 4 members of SPÖ and FPÖ each. I have the following constituencies for this committee: As members: from the ÖVP-Klub: Angela Fichtinger, Mag. Andreas Hanger, Christoph Stark, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Dr.in Angelika tiny; from the SPÖ Club: Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Kai Jan Krainer, Erwin Preiner, Mag. Andreas Schieder ; from the FPÖ Club: Walter Rauch, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Mag. Roman Haider. As replacement members: from the ÖVP-Klub: Angela Baumgartner, Peter Haubner, Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer, Johann Rädler and Johann Singer ; from the SPÖ Club: Mag.a. Ruth Becher, Mag.a. Karin Greiner, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Mag. (FH) Maximilian sub-rainer; from the FPÖ Club: Peter Schmiedlechner, Sandra Wassermann, Hermann Brückl and Petra Wagner. You heard the proposals. Is there any objection to voting on the proposals? This is not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members, as I have already announced, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This choice has also been made. The agenda is exhausted. [[14:46:28]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6227	There is a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol as regards the to read point 4 concerning the election of the main committee and item 5 concerning the election of permanent committees (inconsistency committee, immunity committee and budget committee) so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. ‘Day-and-day arrangements point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the main committee shall be fixed by 21. (After this, the ÖVP club has 7 members, the SPÖ club 6 members, the FPÖ club 6 members, the NEOS 1 member club and the Pilz 1 member club.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the ÖVP Club: Amon, Diesner Wais, Haubner, Köstinger, Lopatka, Steinacker, Wöinger. From the SPÖ Club: Bures, Kern, Krainer, Kuntzl, Leichtfried, Schieder. From the FPÖ Club: Strache, Hofer, Bösch, Rosary, Belakovich, Kitzmüller. From NEOS Club: Stroll. From Club List Pillow: Zinggl. Agenda item 5: Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee) The establishment of the Incompatibilities Committee, the Immunities Committee and the Budget Committee shall be decided. A number of 21 members and 21 alternate members shall be fixed for the Incompatibilities Committee, the Immunities Committee and the Budget Committee. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members SPÖ per 6 members and replacement members FPÖ per 6 members and replacement members NEOS per 1 member and replacement member List of mushrooms per 1 member and replacement member. ==References====External links== The members of the Committee shall be appointed; they shall apply in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[14:49:17]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-11-09-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6322	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed applications 1/A(E) to 15/A were tabled. The next meeting of the National Council will be convened in writing. Before I close this meeting, I announce that the proposed constitutions and elections of committees will take place here at the National Council meeting room. Since these are non-public meetings, I am looking for visitors and media representatives to leave the hall and the committee members or their representatives to stay in the meeting room. This meeting is closed.
