ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6593	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 183. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:06:35]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of Dr. Alois Mock
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6618	Ladies and gentlemen! Last Thursday a great person and politician, an enthusiastic Austrian and European has gone from us forever. In his long political career, Dr. Alois Mock was a representative of the Austrian National Council for a total of more than 20 years and almost ten years of Clubobmann. He was Minister of Education, Foreign Minister and Deputy Chancellor. His political activity was a sign of his successful commitment to European integration. Dr. Alois Mock pursued this goal with great determination and great passion. When he cut the border fence to Hungary in June 1989 and thus the Iron Curtain, the picture became a worldwide symbol of the end of the Cold War. When Austria became a member of the European Union in 1995, it was a summit of its political life-work. Austria as part of a strong and united Europe – in it Dr. Alois Mock always saw best the interests of our Republic. Our participation is valid during these difficult hours of his wife Edith Mock, his family and all his companions. Now I'm looking for you to rise from the squares and remember Dr. Alois Mock for a minute of commemoration. [[Those present rise from their seats and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take up their seats again.]] The official protocols of 179. Meeting and the 180th session. Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 On 1 May 2017, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the honourable Member is reported to be Mag. Gisela Worm. [[09:09:10]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6675	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek has waived her mandate. As Mrs Club President Glavischnig-Piesczek today does not have the opportunity to say goodbye here in the plenary session of the National Council and to give a farewell speech, I would like to take this opportunity to say goodbye to her – I have already done so at the Presidential Conference – and I would like to take this opportunity for her long time. to thank year-old political activity. Ms. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek was a member of this House for 18 years and nine years president of the Green Club. I think I can speak in all our names: We wish her all the best and good luck for her future! [[General condolences.]] Instead of Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mrs. Mag. Barbara Neuroth appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mrs Lueger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6732	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6754	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6769	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome you in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6793	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Mag. Jörg Leichtfried will be represented by the Federal Minister for Education Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid from lunch. I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be handed over live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:12:14]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6854	So we arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Work for Austria – employment and training in focus” Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6883	Good morning, Madam President. Minister Stöger! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has decided to move forward in the coming months, focusing mainly on employment and employment, economics and education. In our view, if one wants to make a fact-based policy, if one wants to make Austria-oriented policy, it is also very necessary. What's our country like? – Austria has managed to have a new economic growth, which for the first time has been above the values of the eurozone for years. Unemployment, our biggest child of concern, is beginning to decline, contrary to what economic researchers have predicted. But especially when unemployment is falling, the path is not yet over, because unemployment and its level are still too high, especially in individual labour market problem groups. This means that the political goal must be to create new jobs by investing in education, in education, but also in the economy. The 20 000 action proposed by our Social Minister, Mr Alois Stöger, is a measure to combat the unemployment of that generation, who is over 50 years old, for those long-term unemployed in the age segment 50 plus, which are very often alone because they are so old, because they have not had a job for a long time, are struggling to get back on the labour market. That is why this programme is also a milestone in reducing unemployment, because creating 20 000 jobs for long-term unemployed is a very important step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important for us that this measure is coming right now, as the upturn is slowly coming back to give this group a sign of hope. It is also important to us that this measure is coming. Since it has been discussed for a long time whether or not we should do this at all, I should like to quote, for example, the ÖVP Federal Confederation, who has been pressing for months for the implementation of this measure. The employment bonus is the second measure for the labour market, which is particularly important to us. In the last few weeks and months, it has been discussed intensively: Do you want to introduce it or not? – We Socialists have always said that the employment bonus is a very important element in supporting positive labour market policies. It is an instrument that benefits the company that employs additional employees half of the additional wage costs, i.e. companies subsidised for creating jobs and recruiting people. This is in itself an unusual measure, but in my opinion it is a very important and right one in this situation of the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If unemployment continues to be high, I believe that it is not only for economic growth but also for opportunities to be opened up with such targeted measures. 2 billion € will be invested in this area. It is now obvious that, after a longer period of time – which is also part of the policy – this support has succeeded from 1st century onwards. July 2017 is coming. That is why I believe that is important, because many companies have already relied on this measure and have already offered jobs to people and given employment promises. There you can see that it is sometimes also possible to combine the interests of entrepreneurs and employees in such a way that it is good for our Republic. In particular, the question of education is central to the future. Let me also say something about this. An educational package that creates more autonomy, more flexi- creating stability, creating more modernity in classrooms, is what we wish for. However, this measure requires a two-thirds majority. The discussions have been conducted very intensively – I think they have developed very further – and therefore my appeal is also to move away from getting something new as junkim again and again. Because if you want a measure, then you have to negotiate on the subject, then you have to see that you continue on the subject, but not always get something new. Otherwise, the impression remains very quickly that ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs and Science Mahrer is ready to risk that this package will not come – which would be a pity because he has spent many months on this issue. As the last point on the security of our social system: We have heard that the ÖVP's designated ÖVP chief has re-announced that he wants to make a tax reduction of €14 billion. If you look at the federal budget, see where these €14 billion would be saved – it always means that we save it – you wonder how it should go; €14 billion – apart from Sebastian Kurz has confused millions and billions, then it was easy, €14 million, that went. However, € 14 billion – one has to consider, that corresponds to the entire educational budget, i.e. if you want to save € 14 billion, then this is not only about reducing social benefits for foreigners. The minimum guarantee alone is only €1.5 billion in Austria. If you want to save €14 billion, as Sebastian has recently announced, you have to cut in the health system, the education system and the pensions. We know, ladies and gentlemen, we need more than less money in health. We know that the topic of care needs more than less money, and we know that education needs more than less money. If you want to cut down on pensions, you have to say that too, because that means that you buy old-age poverty in Austria. That, I think, does not want anyone, but I have learned that a Hartz IV study has been prepared in the Ministry of Finance, which leaves the impression that there is a large black and blue social agenda. That this is not a skim, we know when we think of the zeros in our country. We warn against that, we don't want to, that's bad for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6959	Mr Stöger spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e6981	Madam President. High house! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! At the beginning, allow me to take a look over the large pond! There, the President of the United States of America has made every effort to remove millions of Americans from health insurance, especially those with small, average incomes, and for whom this can mean an existential threat. Conservatives in the United States like to apply this policy under the term freedom. Yes, with deregulation of the health system you can reach the nominal freedom to insure wherever you want, only: You don't have the money for that! And by that one realizes what this freedom is really worth. Don't worry, I'm not saying there are people here in the house I want to put Trump's policy under. Instead, I say this because it also derives from the fact that real and tangible freedoms can only exist on the basis of social security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only when the collective, the collective, works, only when a society stands together, will the freedom of individuals effectively come to bear. Our common task is to ensure that the freedoms of the people who can be fixed in theory also arrive in reality. And for me, these include jobs, just income, training, social security, a solidary, financed care system and a community, represented by the state that gives people precisely these security. I know that some want to eliminate this discussion as a full-casuality, as an evil system that detonates people, to remove them from their own responsibility. But first of all, it is true that less security means more freedom, obviously not, and second, a society is not an academic experiment, but a variety of fates, a variety of talents and also a variety of different strengths, new ideas and potentials that we together are committed to highlight. However, we do not do this by leaving people to themselves, but we do so by creating common and basic conditions for it. We all – and when I say “we” I mean – have clear ideas about how this works. With a training requirement up to 18, we ensure that our young people do not stop their training early and are exposed to a high unemployment risk, but are well prepared, qualified to enter the labour market. This measure has been running since 2016 and is being developed step by step. We have also introduced a training guarantee up to 25. We have made it our goal not to leave anyone behind. For adults, we have introduced the expert scholarship. As part of this measure, 6 500 people receive training in professions that our economy urgently needs. Again: 6 500 people can also qualify in the so-called work-related qualification and another 2 000 people in professional intensive training. Together with the training requirement and the training guarantee, the 30 000 training places are more. In concrete terms, that means: We can thus offer 30,000 people more security, more opportunities and a perspective. With this we release potential, so that we secure the freedom of people, that we create prosperity – and that is good for everyone! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also recognise that there are some groups that cannot help them to have very special problems on the labour market, about unemployed people over 50 years of age. These are people who want to work, people with great wealth of experience, with high social intelligence and with high work morals. These people have already written to the 200 applications and only received cancellations, and they may wonder what they have done wrong. And I want – we want! – give these people their dignity back. With action 20,000, I want to halve almost half the rate of long-term unemployment in older people. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] So you can see it even more clearly: When I speak of older people, by the way, I mean people of my age – only so that we can understand ourselves clearly. I hope that we will be able to decide on this measure this month. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This month?]] I am glad and grateful for investing again in employment, whether with the employment bonus or with the community investment package, with which we provide € 175 million to our communities so that the infrastructure can be expanded in the communities. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] I am pleased that we have a nursing fund to help our federal states, for example, to finance care staff. Threats of simply letting the care fund run out, I think it's very helpful. I am glad that with the network, we enable people with disabilities to pursue a job, and that we also finally allow these groups to live or realize their freedom to develop. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] I say this quite consciously and therefore because I am far from happy with the way in which we implement the labour market integration of people with disabilities in Austria. I would like to thank this House for having been able to adopt the labour market integration law in May, with which we can lead people who have a positive asylum notice or are most likely to receive it from the beginning, from the first day on to the labour market and not allow unnecessary time to pass. We want the displaced people to be able to make a contribution to us and quickly stand on their own feet. This is what we can do to many of them. I stress all this because it is not natural because many of them are being renegotiated each year, sometimes even more often, and because the funding has to be reclaimed each time. At the end of the day, I am convinced that these investments will pay off – not only because they bring a benefit to the people, but also because it strengthens people's confidence in democracy, in a democratic system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The knowledge of not being left alone in an indifferent world in difficult times, but getting systematic support, is security and freedom in one. I'd like to work on this with you. I look forward to your ideas and your suggestions, but I assume there will also be criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7053	Thank you, Minister of State. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time must not exceed 5 minutes. This is what Mr Muchitsch has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7098	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Mr Stöger has concluded his remarks with a sentence to which I should like to follow: A Current An hour is used to deal with a topic, to discuss a topic. It also serves to bring facts closer and perhaps to put mutual positions on the table. But a current hour is not supposed to serve to dissuade a good system that we find in Austria in the field of social affairs from running camera. We from SPÖ have chosen the theme “Work for Austria – Employment and Training in Focus” for the current hour, knowing that many things have been done in this area in recent years, months and weeks to maintain Austria’s economic location through employment to finance the social system. However, we also know, ladies and gentlemen, that, with Austria's accession to the EU in 1995, with all its advantages and disadvantages, we have increased our competition in terms of jobs and also in terms of job creation. With the free movement of workers in 2011, which was decided here in this House, in Parliament, in 2004, the challenges were further reinforced. But we must never lose sight of one thing in this whole debate or discussion: that in Austria – if we take a look across the border, no matter what direction of heaven, whether to the south, the west, the east or even to the north, we can still see it – we can still find a system in which the social standards in relation to care, health and pensions are unique, even comparatively best. We must be aware of this, and we should be very clear about it. Our goal must be to maintain these social standards and not to weaken those people who are already weak by means of reductions in performance. Our goal must be to create more jobs in Austria, thus increasing income through social security taxes and taxes through more jobs in Austria. That is why the measures put forward by our Minister of Social Affairs in the last few weeks and months are so important: the 20 000 action for long-term unemployed 50 plus, the employment bonus with which we want to give very clear incentives for the economy, namely that they prefer job-seekers who are already integrated in our system, which has already contributed to Austria, but currently have no job, to workers from other European countries. This gives us a very clear sign, because we do not receive contributions from posted workers in Austria and therefore have no revenue, neither in our tax system nor in social security. That is why it is also important that we continue to force and develop the education and training programmes so that those people who are willing to reorient themselves by re- or up-qualification can also come to a job. Our goal is – and the focus is on bringing younger and older people, from school leavers to people 50 plus even more into jobs. This is now an opportunity to thank yourself – thank you for the measures we have put together so far, for those measures in which our Minister of Social Affairs has been actively active. These include the guarantee of training, compulsory training and municipal investment. The latter is a point which, Mr Social Minister, does not fall directly into the social sector, but where you have said, as a practitioner, in cooperation with the communities: It would be useful for the municipalities to get money simply and unconventionally and to secure another 20 000 jobs in the municipalities with this investment package. Finally, I can say: We have managed to create incentives for the economy. We want to create further incentives and thus bring even more people in Austria into jobs. The economic data are good, the upturn is there; that is not by itself. We all know – and you know that best, ladies and gentlemen – that policy creates the system or sets the necessary measures. Employment and training focus in the future – so we want to finance and secure our social system in the long term. The orientation is quite clear: Jobs, jobs, jobs! Training, training, training! Federal Minister! Thank you very much for your previous initiatives and actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7159	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7180	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the situation in the labour market is easy to relax. We currently have an unemployment rate of 5.5 percent according to Eurostat calculation, but in Austria we still have almost 400 000 unemployed people, and that is too much. However, we should also recognise positively that the number of unemployed fell by 11 000 compared to the previous year, which corresponds to a minus of 2.7 percent. In all federal states, the unemployment rate, in Styria around 10 percent, is falling by about 1.5 percent in Lower Austria. Unemployment continues to be a major challenge for young people, but for older people over 50, unemployment remains a major challenge. The main responsibility for the general decline in unemployment is the growing economy. We have recorded a growth in gross domestic product from 1.6 percent to 2.3 percent, and the quarterly growth is 0.7 percent. This positive development creates new and additional jobs. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, however, it is our entrepreneurs and the growing economy that are contributing to the creation of new and additional jobs, and this development is in principle a very positive one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there is also a need for policy action. Why? – Because we need to provide the framework conditions so that this growth can develop positively at the end of the day. In this context, I would just like to mention a few points. Firstly, the employment bonus. He's coming with 1. July. This will relieve any additional full-time job by reducing additional wage costs by reducing it by half over the next three years. This halving of additional wage costs means a great relief for entrepreneurs, and it will be – that is very important! – created new and additional jobs. Secondly, action 20 000 for older long-term unemployed. Yes, we too from the ÖVP support this measure. A package with a financing volume of around €800 million is planned for this action, and we are therefore concerned by the People's Party that there is also security of meeting in this area. There are many older people who write countless letters of application, and we meet many of them also our spokespersons, knowing about their personal fates, namely that they struggle for months to get a job again somewhere, and therefore our attention is particularly important to the elderly long-term unemployed. This package is intended for these people. It prepares pilot projects. However, we are already concerned about the guidelines for funding which are applied in the AMS, because of how all this will be made concrete at the end of the day. That is what we find ourselves in good discussions. However, it is also essential that this action should also be accessible to the rural communities, so that people can also be helped there. Thirdly, the community investment law 2017 – that was already mentioned. Yes, we consider this measure to be very positive. This means that there are 175 million euros for the municipalities. I am a municipal councillor in an 800-inhabitant community, in Sigharting in the Inn district, and we in our community will also benefit with about 15 000 €, because we make our municipal office accessible and make renovations. This is a great investment for rural areas and for the regional economy and, finally, also for the preservation of jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Don't! That's not a promotion!]] Why, since the liberals are opposed, I have to explain this to you once, because if this is an additional incentive to help the regional economy on the ground, then you really have to miss out on any explanation from the liberals, why you are voting against this project, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Kassinger:... Pocket!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] No one understands this throughout Austria – especially in the rural communities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is a beautiful shipping company!]] Last comment: Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you have said that Sebastian Kurzsei's proposals are not understandable to you. Maybe I can give you some support so you can understand why they're good. We want to reduce taxes, reduce the tax rate from 43 per cent to 40 per cent, and Sebastian has taken a short look at how this is done: by researching the funding and making social benefits more reliable, reducing bureaucracy and reducing tax relief. [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are four essential points on which we can achieve this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another comment on the successful social system: No one can explain why the red-green government in Vienna does not cover the minimum security and limited to immigrants. This has been done by Upper Austria, this has been done by Lower Austria, and the red and blue Burgenland is now implementing it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Why this is not done in Vienna, although the costs explode to over 1 billion €, you can't explain this to a minimum pensioner in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, it is important to restrict immigration and stop illegal migration. That's why Sebastian Kurzde goes the right way, and we support him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7336	The next item is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7359	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Schieder has begun his introduction with the fact that the social democrats will focus on training and work in the coming months. Now for me and, of course, for many Austrians, the question is: What have you done in the last ten years, if you now want to focus on the training requirement over the next few months? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Actually, I am very disappointed by both government parties, because the subject of this current hour is: “Work for Austria – employment and training in focus”. The Federal Minister has now used this debate to talk about government work at all, has brought examples of the American health system and, and, what is it? It was relatively little said about education and how you imagine it in the future. I'm going to get a few things you've been talking about. They are talking about action 20 000, about employment bonus. For the first time, it has not yet been decided – it will not be decided today either. And if he suffers the fate that the trade order has suffered here, he will be referred back to the committee anyway. So now talking about something that is not actually decided on is laborious. But what you're sure about when the government template is implemented as it is now available is a new bureaucracy sample, similar to the craftsman bonus and a number of things more. I now come to the training requirement which the Minister for Social Affairs has referred to. Mr. Social Minister, have you read the issue of your chief worker chamberer Kaske from mid-May? – In this he complains that 16 000 occupational apprenticeships are missing. In view of the lack of 16 000 occupational apprenticeships, it is an illusion to implement a training obligation up to 18 years and a training guarantee up to 25 years. Where do you want to accommodate them? Do you want to pick up the ÜLAs? Do you want to pick up the OCTs that are an eerie sort of bureaucracy monster that's gonna devour a lot of money? – The exit rate is at eight months under any criticism, even the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce have repeatedly criticized it. The only positive thing to note is that, due to the good economic situation and also because of the fact that the Austrian entrepreneurs and their workers have done really excellent work in recent months and years – thanks to them – the Austrian entrepreneurs have managed to reduce or stop the trend of unemployment, in spite of poor conditions set by the Federal Government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to a subject that you have not at all addressed, what surprises me, namely the training itself. Dual training is a success model, we know it for years, so we make advertising throughout Europe. And if you now say that last year the number of first-year apprentices has increased by 1 900 – that is 2.1 percent – and that is to sell as a success, then I can tell you that in the same period the number of 15-year-olds has increased by 2 200, i.e. by 2.7 percent. There are not even those migrants who may be subject to training at all. That means, despite an increase, you have actually taken a step backwards. And if you still bear in mind that in recent years the number of training establishments, which have fallen from 39 600 to 28 200, you will find that fewer and fewer firms are willing to train apprentices under these conditions. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... promotions!]] I'll tell you one thing: If you do not involve the economy in dual training and become active with certain incentives for the economy, you will suffer shipwreck. You know that a training site in an ÜLA costs € 17 000 a year. They know that businesses create much less money from substantially successful apprenticeships, offer apprenticeships. That would help everyone. Federal Minister! Not only in the last few months would You have been demanded that you have been required in recent years – and you have totally failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7408	Next word reported: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7429	Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about employment, we have to start at school. There personal opportunities are distributed, in the worst case there are sorted out or deficits are created. There decides where the place in society is later. Right of opportunity, that's the big school topic. It is not crucial who I am and where I come from, but it is crucial that the school makes the best of the opportunities and offers everyone a fair educational opportunity. This is also the reason why we have entered the reform of education policy very intensively and have conducted very serious negotiations with ÖVP and SPÖ. On Thursday, we agreed on a reform of education, which, on the one hand, is in charge of administration, but on the other hand, also allows for entry into the common school in Vorarlberg, which is a real reform. I am surprised that we gave our hands on Thursday to lunch and the ÖVP then approved of this joint negotiation outcome, I do not want to say, but at least removed. Suddenly, there are new junkimations, and there is a question of educational reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I am old-fashioned in this matter: If you give your hand, then that is true, and then you do not come up with something new, but count this negotiation result. I'm trying to keep your word! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wicker.]] If you do not keep your word, it is a breach of trust. What does that mean for future negotiations? – There can be no joint talks on this basis. If you don't bring this outcome to Parliament with us, then you will have the backpack for the whole election campaign that the educational reform has failed to you, that you have refused the education reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] Return to the negotiating table, and finalize what we have done! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Second point: Of course, school cannot eliminate all deficits, it needs an active labour market policy. From the Greens' point of view, two things are important if we spend a lot of money on the labour market. The first is to invest in future sectors – in Upper Austria the Rudi Anschhober has proposed 40 000 jobs in the eco-economic sector – but also in social services. There are many, many sectors and sectors in society where we need more employment. That is where we need to make targeted use of the funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The second point is: We need to start where people are depended on in the labour market due to economic developments, where people no longer live on the labour market, where there are risk groups, as it means something technical – there needs to be invested. With the employment bonus, there is a great risk that we will spend €2 billion, that we will invest this money in the upswing and that it will flow into jobs that might have arisen anyway. Here, it takes a precise focus on the goal to ensure that new jobs are created. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, how long we have the chance to invest €2 billion in the labour market in this Republic at all is the big question. If ÖVP-Obmann comes down briefly and announces a tax quota reduction costing €12 billion, then the crucial question will be: How many more scopes for political design possibilities are there? – I ask you not to misunderstand me! One can and must always discuss what taxes are levied on: What effect does that have? What do we spend the money for?, but stand down and promise a tax reduction that costs €12 billion, and nothing that holds to say to counter-financing, that's cool or that's tax populism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whoever says A has to say B. And B is about: Will teachers be saved? Is it saved by police? What social benefits are saved for? Which infrastructure projects will no longer be implemented? – These are the questions that need to be answered, and do not come with the form of bureaucrats! This is important, but it has been nothing but the code for not knowing how counter-financing looks – then it is the administrative reform! The last and crucial point: You also have to be able to live on work. We have to implement the minimum wage during this legislative period, which has been agreed between ÖVP and SPÖ, and now we hear nothing about it. There is a clear offer from our website: Society needs cohesion, it must not break up. We have to go to the bottom of our incomes. Dear Social Democracy! If the EIA adopts the compromise, we are talking together about the minimum wage! There can be a majority in this Parliament from SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ, which enforces this minimum wage. We owe this to the so-called low-income groups. This offer is available. We are fighting for the cohesion of this society and are ready for new majority groups, even if this is social democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7504	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7525	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger wants to search through the promotions and say this out here after he has praised the employment bonus. This has to be broken on the tongue and it has to be seen with which double morality is occurring here. If SPÖ and ÖVP talk about the labour market and we are discussing action 20 000 and employment bonus today, then the red and black division policy of the old school is. This is what the core SPÖ and the short-term ÖVP do in the same way that the Grand Coalitionaries have always done in recent decades: The SPÖ may fried 20 000 money with action, and the EIA may shatter money with the employment bonus. Everyone has his kingdom – one goes over the AMS, the other over the aws. You can't puke each other in that way, and everyone is allowed to blow out tax money according to their heart's desire. Action 20 000 by € 780 million: In the Austrian communities, the lawns are mowed, the trees are cut, the squares are turned, and yet we are now setting up another 20,000 to the 75 000 parish staff – 20,000 jobs without work! [[Call the SPÖ:... I don't know!]] That is humiliating for these people. It is humiliating to put someone somewhere where there is nothing to do, because everything has already been done. This is not an employment policy, it is pseudo-employment policy! No one comes into the first labour market through such jobs without work. No one who gets such a job without work will be transferred to a proper employment relationship. Whatever you don't do is qualify people. Maybe, so you've announced, maybe 1,000 people will be qualified for care. However, 19 000 are still left which are not qualified but are simply placed somewhere. However, we currently have a record number of open spaces in the labour market, which, among other things, cannot be occupied because the qualification is not correct because the companies do not find the people who can do what the company needs. We must invest in education and qualification! This is not what action 20 000 is doing, and it does not, by the way, do the employment bonus. A reason for the high level of long-term unemployment is also the design of unemployment and emergency aid. Unlike in other European countries, our performance is linear over time. Once you're unemployed, you get unemployment benefit and then you get emergency aid, which is 92 to 95 percent of unemployment benefit. Emergency aid can then be obtained indefinitely. In all other European countries, unemployment is falling over time, and this, of course, also increases the incentive to take up work, because one knows: Okay, at the beginning I get a little more unemployment benefit, but if I'm out of work longer, it'll be less, and then I'll have to see how I can agree the end of the month and the end of the money. There is no long-term unemployment because we are trying to get a job in good time, which is to try faster than the value on the labour market goes down. The longer someone is unemployed, the more his value on the labour market decreases. This model has also proposed Johannes Kopf of the AMS, who is praised by professionals for it. It is not rocket science, but it does not, of course, allow the logical fixation, especially of the Social Democrats, that one introduces a degressive, i.e. a reduced unemployment benefit. It takes incentives to start work before someone is long-term unemployed, and not if he has already become. We also have a problem with the very rigid constraint limit. If a person is in unemployment, he is allowed to earn €425 – a short-term limit – he earns more of a euro, the entire unemployment benefit is lost. There needs a model that brings in, a citizen's money, with which someone who finds work, of any additional euro he deserves, actually has something – away from this all-or-nothing solution. When we look at who the people are who deserve little, we note that it is very many who, in addition to unemployment benefit, deserve little in addition to emergency aid. Most of those who earn little deserve to be very close to the poverty limit, which is an obstacle to working more, doing more, doing more and thus returning to a full-time employment relationship. The low flexibility limit in the current form also leads to some black payment. You get a little emergency aid, you earn a little bit, and you take the rest black. Calculate 800 € unemployment benefit plus 400 € for minor employment, then you have 1 200 €! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] You have to earn this first with full employment. These are the wrong incentives of a wrong system.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7568	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7589	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! You'll have noticed, we're full of election. Mr Stöger himself has had to make an effort to show how bad governments are, if not democrats or social democrats. [[Abg. Heinzl: He is right, Minister!]] But let us look at Austria, where the SPÖ has held responsibility for decades and still bears: In our country there are 1.3 million people who are vulnerable to poverty. These are many single-schoolers who do not know how to finance their livelihood in addition to their family obligations. These are many pensioners who have worked hard for a lifetime and at the end of the day do not know whether to heat or to afford the food. Is that social, Mr. Minister? I say to you that social democracy has left great gaps in many areas. I would like to make another point that is very important to me personally: How can it be that in a system that is supposed to be socially balanced, so many privilege-kaisers are still walking around, that is, people who are getting privileges pensions and who have never paid for them? I would like you to take up this issue at last and ensure social justice there! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But now to the labour market: There is not much to rejoice in the labour market. We still have about 400,000 people looking for a job. If you take the old national quota calculation, that's still about 8 percent. Yes, I'm right, we've had a positive upswing in recent months, that is, a slight improvement. We were able to bring more people into employment by 2.7 percent, but this is not yet a guarantee that this upturn will continue. It will only stop if we take accompanying measures when, at last, what the government has been talking about is being implemented, namely to relieve entrepreneurs of red tape, to create business-friendly conditions, to reduce additional labour costs. Once all this is implemented, we have a chance to stabilise the labour market in the longer term. I understand that the ÖVP must re-name itself, because it has not done the homework, and it has been running from one entrepreneur to another for decades, which has promised, but has not complied with. I think this recoloration is a pure marketing gag, so that the entrepreneurs may not know that the content is still the same, namely standstill, prolonged to the next years. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Despite all the positive benefits of this slight acceleration of the last few weeks, we have huge areas of problem, such as the long-term unemployed – these are those people who are not in employment longer and harder to walk on the labour market. Their number has increased by 8 percent in recent years. Also, your 20 000 action is not the right approach from my point of view, because there is a job for people who do not actually exist, and I wonder how people feel when they first have to create a so-called job that they do not have, and perhaps they do not feel the need to be used or that their work is useful. We would like to see integration into the first labour market, that companies are supported, that they can take up long-term unemployed and that they will find a future perspective in these companies. The next point I would like to address is youth. We know today – and this is what future researchers tell us – that the children of today's young people in 20 years will be 80 percent of what we do not know today. What does that mean? – We need an education system that is forward-looking. We need an education system that can meet these new challenges, that is, young people must be flexible and creative. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has left many construction sites. Don't scatter people's sand into the eyes, take the tasks seriously and see that something is going on in this country at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7651	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7672	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! ‘The strength of economic recovery exceeds all current forecasts. For the first time in five years, [...] unemployment [...] goes back.’ – That’s not a quote from me, that’s not a quote from Federal Minister Stöger, that’s a quote from economic expert Markus Marterbauer. He writes: "This is also a success of an active social and economic policy. [...] Industrial production, investment and employment are growing so strongly that one can currently live on a self-sustaining economic upturn. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These are facts. You can't get rid of that, talk away, or talk bad. These are facts from an economic expert, and that means to me that we are actually on a good path. I am also convinced that we are not least on a good path because German Chancellor Core and his government team have presented a plan for Austria, a plan that has focused mainly on employment and growth, because it is simply known that growth and employment are important factors for the development of a country, but also for every individual person of great importance. I would like to roll this up a little bit, so that you also know how the last weeks and months have developed. As a result, a government programme with 49 projects, with a time and implementation plan, has been drawn up, and the balance sheet we can make can be seen from my point of view. As so much has already been said today that we have a standstill that nothing goes further in Austria, I would simply like to remind you that we have decided on an investment package, including in Parliament, which includes €5 billion, €5 billion, which can be invested in growth, employment, education and also in the fight against unemployment. We have a training guarantee for people up to 25. Year of life. We have compulsory training until the 18th century. Introduced years of life; and if one hears today that businesses withdraw from the responsibility to train people, then one knows that it is important that there are also OCTAs that there are production schools in which young people can still mature in which they are prepared. I really appeal to the companies that they accept these young people once or twice and give them the opportunity to complete an inclusive teaching or part of the teaching. There's still a lack of places. We have decided on an apprenticeship package, we have decided on the skilled staff package, which has increased the professional scholarship, and, dear Gerald Loacker, we have launched the offensive “workplace-related qualification”, which has created 6 500 places and exactly what you have addressed, namely that people can be qualified for jobs. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] So I think it is simply not quite all right to talk about standstill and that we are not doing anything for jobs. We have decided on the investment premium for SMEs and also for municipalities – this has already been mentioned by Mr Wöginger – and this will also ensure that up to 8 500 jobs can be created in the rural regions. I am convinced that all these are measures that revive the economy and, on the other hand, make sure that people get back to work. I cannot therefore fully understand – and I can't do that today – that precisely in this phase of the upswing, in this phase of good joint work, the outs for the coalition by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has come short. It is incomprehensible for me to take responsibility seriously. For me, it is incomprehensible if one takes the work seriously for Austria and if one puts the work in the foreground for Austria. For me, this is really incomprehensible because we have launched a number of measures and because we wanted to implement a number of measures together, such as the health reform, the so urgently needed educational reform or the projects prepared by the Federal Minister Stöger, such as the 20 000 action. This 20 000 action is by no means in such a way as to make senseless jobs. [[Abg. New builder: But she's not coming!]] Jobs in communities will be created, which will enable people to actually work meaningfully, which will help people to find work again. [[Abg. New builder: Would be nice!]] Mr Commissioner, if you know that people who have no work for a long time have not only less money at their disposal but also lose self-esteem, you also know that this is a really great measure to create jobs so that people can find jobs again. [[Abg. Neubauer: Where is the decision?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] - Well, we still have to go! € 735 million will be invested there. [[Abg. New builders: Where are the 30,000 apartments that are built?]] We would also like to implement the project “self-employed Life Home”. This too has brought Federal Minister Stöger on the way, and this is also a win-win situation, on the one hand for people who get work through these auxiliary activities in daily life support, and on the other hand for people who need help by being cared for by people at home and able to live longer at home. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for us, for social democracy, it is simply a very important measure that work is not a privilege. Work is a right, and everyone they need should also get full support. Ladies and gentlemen, my final sentence – I am convinced that the comparison will make you sure –: Federal Chancellor Core and Social Democracy have a plan for Austria; Federal Minister Kurz has a plan for the short list – the new People's Party. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7768	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Little. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7790	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it is logical that there is a causal link between training and employment. It doesn't matter whether school or teaching, the most important thing we have to give to our young people is a well-founded education, because if such a one is missing, then our young people simply have quite a hard time in life. We know that more than half of the unemployed reported persons cannot have further training and therefore are at risk of becoming social cases throughout life. We cannot and do not want to afford this, and that is why the training requirement was also compulsory until the 18th century. Year of life is a real step, but also the support of the potential analysis by the countries and the Chambers of Commerce, because through these, even weaker students experience that they have strengths that can then be used for the profession. Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner has started and implemented a number of topics in the field of dual training. Just think of the 71 new careers for the apprenticeships, the creation of eleven modular apprenticeships, the coaching for weaker young people and the development of quality-related funding. I had a very exciting discussion last week with 90 training leaders from the Upper Austrian economy. These have also given me what conditions our young people need – this is generally known – namely: Young people need to be able to read, write and count. [[Intervocation and detonative accompaniment of the Abg. New builder.]] There we can still make 100 school attempts, we can give notes in the form of smiles, we can learn to dance our name, it won't work because it hasn't worked so far. If the superpedagogy does not come, we will not learn it playfully, but we have to deal with the basics as conventionally with sitting down and learning, learning, learning. [[Abg. New builder: The word “basics” they do not understand!]] In addition, the training managers also complain that the spatial understanding of the recruitment tests is no longer available because the subject of geometric drawing is no longer offered as a compulsory subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] But today this is very important for a high-tech economic location, as Upper Austria is. Another wish was for all AHS and BHS to carry out similar examinations throughout Austria, so that the level of these schools does not decrease even further, as they observe this from year to year. At present, however, the schools are being filled up, not in the sense of the students, but thus our educators are busy. At last we need courage for elites, because only through the high potentials in science and research can we further develop our economic location. What is very important to me in the field of dual training is the modular teaching in accordance with the Swiss model with a basic teaching with degree and connection, so that the weaker students can continue when, after a few years of practice, they come up with the button. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I do not understand that the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB do not positively assess this model. We also had massive difficulties in Upper Austria with a model experiment, but this really gives us a chance that even weaker young people can not end up as auxiliary workers, but can enter the teaching. We have already heard that economic development is gaining momentum – thank God! – thanks to the tax reform, consumption is also higher and especially our exports are rising again. However, what I am lacking in all cases – Mr Federal Minister, I believe you have to jump over your shadows too – is a debureaucratisation with a sense of mind, because what we now see in the Employment Protection Deregulation Act is not clear that this will create only another job. Finally, I should like to thank all business colleagues for their training and job creation activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7858	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7879	Madam President. Minister! High house! If I listen to the SPÖ's speeches today, I wonder if that was yesterday afternoon in the SPÖ Centre of SPÖ Redeemers, who got a Wachn. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] In general, the common will and the common knowledge of the need for sound training, good schooling, to be able to remain in line with the labour market, and for us to have a major problem. That's, I think, all right. SPÖ and ÖVP – both sides – have been actively shaping education policy in this country for 70 years without interruption, the last ten years it has been red education policy, between black and red. I wonder why it's only now that you need such a well-founded education. As my colleague Themessl has already said, it is good to say that the SPÖ will take care of training and labour market policy for the next three months. [[Abg. New builder: Well, bravo!]] It is true that we also have to work very much to increase our appreciation of teaching professions in our society. This is also because the image of teaching professions is a bad thing and urgently needs to be polished up, a very essential factor, since in fact there should also be Common Sense. But if I hear, for example, that excellent apprentices are awarded in Upper Austria and, for example, the SPÖ does not find it worth going or sending a representative, I know how high this appreciation is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Scandal is that!]] For example, if you look at Carinthia, where in the last five or six years the number of apprentices has fallen by almost a quarter – if I have it right in my head – and if you know that there has been a red government or a red country captain working there for four years, then you conclude that it is quite possible that there is a causal connection. I would like to ask myself in a further row where the measures for the teaching profession will remain for the field of teaching. – I don’t see them; when I look at them, I see that the companies are not involved and so on. But let us come to education policy in general! Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators meant we need more money to invest in education. – Yes, we agree, we need good and a lot of resources to finance education policy and to finance school policy, but we do not need more money, but above all we need more efficient funding to finance this education. If you know what's going on in bureaucracy and what's going on in the same way – the Minister of Finance once gave the best that it's supposed to only happen every second euro in school classes – then we have to start there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are the core problems? – That’s just the inefficient use of resources – no question! – also in the field of school organisation – we have been discussing this educational reform for months – should be set up in order to make it better. We need to see that we improve teacher training, that we get better teachers in school classes – even better teachers, because not all teachers are bad; you have to say this clearly at this point. However, we also need to work towards the recruitment of our society towards education and to point out that it is not only a debt of the state, but also a debt of people to receive such education. We must create the conditions for this, that is no question at all. Unfortunately, a central point in this area is also the question of immigration, the question of the fact that, obviously, too few children can hear enough German to follow the teaching. We know that after nine years of compulsory school, about a quarter of the children cannot read meaningfully; then we do not need to think about a teaching profession or a qualified higher education at all. If we don't get that under control, then we really have a sustainable problem, then we have not only one but several lost generations. Ladies and gentlemen, you know this: For example, in the context of the educational reform it would have been possible to introduce this, we liberals demand a corresponding duty to prove German skills in order to be able to follow regular schooling. In this respect, support should be taken; the SPÖ does not get over it properly, nor does the ÖVP dare to say it quite openly. The other point is that we call for a clear no to the general school, which is also very important. The Minister of Social Affairs has said that we should not make academic experiments with our educational landscape and schools in Austria. But that is exactly what the SPÖ and the Greens want to make clear: an academic experiment on the back of the children. We clearly reject that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] The ÖVP is obviously unable to say openly and clearly that it says no to the general school; it does such a wiping-wagel course. I understand that, Mr Steinhauser. That you obviously break up with a handshake and that then the ÖVP will find any angle trains to get out, so to speak, that's not all right. I also understand the SPÖ in this context. However, the following is clear: There will only be something fundamental going on with the FPÖ. [[Abg. Brosz: (delighted) In the field of education?! You can say that without...!]] I hope that in autumn after the new elections we will have new conditions in this House to take the right measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e7979	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8000	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard with all parties today, I believe, the clear commitment that we urgently need a further development of our school and education system for a good labour market. The statement of the FPÖ with regard to the debt of the children in connection with education was not yet clear to me, that might have to be explained. [[Abg. Mölzer: Go, go, go! Whoever can read is clearly in advantage!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Good education is the most important labour market policy measure available. They all know that our school system is unable to teach each child reading, computing and writing in nine years of school. Even the EIA says that in this situation it is impossible to bring such young people to an apprenticeship, and if support measures succeed with expensive support from labour market policy, then they have to learn to do so in parallel. [[Abg. Neubauer: What's that supposed to be about?]] – 16-, 17-year-olds must learn to count. It can't be! If the youth has gone to school earlier, now as an auxiliary worker in the labour market, he has a huge risk of falling into poverty without these basic qualifications to become unemployed again and again. All of this is because our school system is unable to teach them to read, calculate and write. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Peter Worm:... Green response!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. With this “Mut to Elite, ” she takes the opportunity of young people to enjoy a successful working life. Ladies and gentlemen, with your blockade of education reform, you from the ÖVP not only take the opportunity for young people to enjoy a successful life, but also cause massive costs in the field of labour market policy and minimum security. It is really very interesting that Mr Foreign Minister says that he wants to save €14 billion, while at the same time causing millions of costs for labour market and minimum security policies. That's not all right! Stop this campaign and finally take care of the young people in this country! [[Congratulations on the Greens, as well as on Deputies Königsberger-Ludwig and Schellhorn.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You're talking about another party! This is the new People's Party! You don't know them so well yet!]] Mr. Federal Minister Mahrer always talks about how important he is to support digitization, Work 4.0. Many economists have just mentioned that all this – preparing for digitization – does not help us if people do not have the basic skills to learn these things at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Please try to overcome yourself, do not rely on the elites, but rely on the whole youth of this country and end the blockade policy in the educational reform! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] A second point is very, very important to me, which is about thousands, hundreds of thousands, especially about women. It is about serving women in pastries, about shopkeepers, about sellers in bakerys, about medical assistants, about hairdressers. All these women earn less than 1 500 € gross, that's not even 1 200 € net. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You just deserve so much that after deduction of the housing costs you will have around €16 per day, and that will not change next year and for some certainly not next year. Please, I'm appealing to the SPÖ: Federal Chancellor Kern has promised us to find a solution. [[Abg. Neubauer: He has already promised a lot!]] ==References== June, and I would like to make a legislative proposal on how we can finally give these women a fair wage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] SPÖ, FPÖ and we Greens, we are ready to do so. Please trust, let's finally do that! These women have more than deserved it. I would like to make Austria fairer, and that would be an important step in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8129	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8151	Madam President. Mr Minister, you have outlined in your remarks an elderly person who asks what he has done wrong. – But the question would rather ask you on the government bank: What have we done wrong that we now have to introduce a promotion to enable employment? [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. New builder.]] That is the question, and not the one that this person poses. I think it's very cynical if you think that man is wondering what he's done wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In reality, you can design, but in reality you have done one thing with the employment bonus: They make companies that create jobs into bitters. - That's the clear point. As in the last few days, there has also been massive red tape reduction, the reduction in the tax rate – as has now been said by Mr Wöginger: Entrepreneurs who create jobs in this country need a clear relief from the bureaucracy, a clear relief from tax and tax policy. The employees in this country need more net of less gross. That's the point! This would be employment policy, and this would lead to more prosperity. That's the point here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's not about making a dependency, it's not about getting entrepreneurs to be bitters, so they'll get a bonus sometime, with a clear list. In addition, the following comments were made: Some of them, especially tourism, are in any case excluded. With this in mind, the ÖVP, which always promises to be for the entrepreneurs, is a big segment. Small and medium-sized enterprises, especially tourism companies, in the bi-seasonal sector, have extreme disadvantages and an extreme red tape that will never and never pay off. – This is the only employment policy in the bureaucracy, in the civil service. I would like to say something because Mr Wöginger mentioned the foreign minister's announcement that the tax rate will be reduced: The announcement to push the tax and tax rate below 40 percent has already made once the great chancellor bowl. He said that it had been implemented by the year 2010. The announcement to push the tax rate below 40 percent and that this was done by 2020 has also made Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger once. Foreign Minister Kurz announces that the tax and tax rate will fall below 40 percent by 2022. Now I ask you – Mr Wöginger has been sitting in plenary since 2002 –: Who else believes that? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Faith You really think anyone's losing you that you're for a discharge from the companies? Do you think anyone is losing you that you are in favour of a proper education policy? Faith You really do? I commit my previous speakers to: Education policy is employment policy. Let us now ask ourselves – not only the 183 MEPs in this room have to ask: Who's blocking? Where's it going? Why don't we even deal with talking about lifelong learning? We all live 15 years longer; why should it not be possible for us to have education until the 20th century? Guarantee your life? We still have the Theresian system of education until the 18. Year of life. We do not deal with how it can work that young people get a much better education so that they have more opportunities in working life to guarantee employment. What it takes is a reduction in additional wage costs, more net of less gross. Of course, it also needs more flexible working hours. We need longer calculation periods of working hours and overtime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We also need another support in the digital working world. ==References====External links== In the 20th century, however, the social partners are still in their collective agreements of the 20th century. ==References====External links== My colleague, honey, we also need childcare places seven days a week so that young mothers can earn more and also work longer, so not only are slightly employed. Childcare facilities are necessary that do not close on Friday afternoon and that the mothers themselves can arrange on Saturday and Sunday. [[Abg. Wenninger: Do you want to reduce the gross wages?]] There is a need for a rethinking in education and training policy, and we will continue to deal with it. I am convinced that it is a liberal approach to give people more life opportunities, opportunities, with... [[Abg. Wenninger: That's the problem!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8225	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8241	... find their better training also work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8268	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8300	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk, on which a container ship can be seen.]] In advance, as a father of four married children and grandfathers of 14 Enkerln, I would like to express my gratitude that we can live in this country, that we can realize in this country that in this country everyone and anyone who or anyone wants to, can make a career. I am against the fact that we here only order that we either speak of elites or agree with others that they can make it. I think we need to see these opportunities that we can afford. We also need to convey these opportunities, because it makes no sense to blow tribulation. That doesn't bring us any further. One thing I would like to say in advance: We need to re-occupy the concept of work. I also invite the media to do so. It can't be that on Monday in the morning is the first report from a reporter: Only more than four working days until the weekend! – Well, that’s the right attitude as we start the day! I think we should re-occupy the concept of work: Work is joy of life, work is sense of life and work is life's content. Whoever contests this doesn't understand the term. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should like to begin with the point that I think is very important: In the forthcoming election campaign, we will discuss rural areas, the conservation of rural areas. We will hear from all the measures taken by the two government parties what is being done, what everything has to be done and what has just been achieved for huge success. 14 billion € savings, said by people who work 20 percent – I don't think so at all! I am now talking about the presence at the Foreign Ministers' meetings; they are the new stars in Austria that can be celebrated abroad. There's an old saying: It's easy to lie in the distance. One thing I can say clearly: I don't want these discussions – as at an event on 20 October. June in the Redout Halls in Linz –: If the rural area dies, the village dies. Then the head of Ennshafen sits there on the stage, and reports: new record, 240 000 container imports to Austria. - What's in there? Do we need all of this? Is that all speculation? It is quite clear that on a kilo of cereals traded 54 times on the stock exchange, the producer and the processor no longer deserve anything. This is what the companies are doing, which affects the labour force. I think we have to recognize this reality. Let's read the Group Atlas 2017! The cheapest workers are tea pickers in India with 23 US dollars a month, minus natural wages, sleeping cabins optional from bamboo or straw. Then why do Austrian companies like the Agrara have subsidiaries in China and India at once to operate fruit processing plants? What are the results? – This is indirect wage dumping, ladies and gentlemen! Especially from the greens, I expect a much clearer position. It can't be that we're talking about it. Mr Klubobmann Steinhauser, please explain to me the 40 000 jobs created by Rudi Anschhober in Upper Austria! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It is wonderful that the ÖVP will say that it has created 150 000, the SPÖ has created 200 000. – This is not a fairy tale hour! Then you have to think about how many he has prevented. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We cannot discuss debureaucratisation and, in reality, demand additional requirements, additional restrictions for each project and everywhere! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is not our...!]] This costs, and we really cannot afford it in international competition. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, that's why we're only on top of 109 in the international ranking. In the same ranking, Germany is tenth. Why? What are the main reasons? – Our high wage side costs, our high bureaucratic requirements, and that is the criticism of this federal government. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... tax reform!]] Where were the measures announced in each election campaign? I don't even think that's a little kid. And that is, I think, the very decisive thing: We need a new policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Yes, as a China expert, Mr Matznetter, I am speaking now, you are China’s specialist in globalisation, and regionalization – I would expect a consumer protectionist – serves people. [[Abg. Matznetter: No answer! They're telling us something...!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Matznetter and Mr Lugar.]] We need a policy of perceptibility. We don't need companies' tricks, we don't need double-digit consolidated profits. We need jobs for our citizens from whom they can live. This is the result of this socialist policy. [[Abg. Matznetter: He doesn't know what he's talking, the colleague!]] There is a purchasing power loss of 16 percent among employees, and this money is lacking in the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8432	Member, you must now come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8448	Madam President, I am already done: At the end of this speech, I should like to thank all the entrepreneurs, but also all the employees who: pay the tax money to that State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8480	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8543	Madam President. Federal Minister! The topic of employment and training: Training, housing and work are the main criteria for a regulated life course. The basis for this is to be provided by both workers and the economy as well as by the legislator. In terms of education, different educational paths are available, but the primary stock is always taught in the public schools. Although a primary school degree, now New Secondary School, is open to further education, the economy is rightly suing significant training shortcomings. The legislator has to intervene in a regular manner, with all day lessons being rejected. At present, the situation is marked by marked immigration, and integration is an essential element in our education system. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] Joint training leads to a manco for local trainees in terms of linguistic shortcomings. The economy is often balanced or regulated. Generation-related data suggest that the success of high-priced education systems is not to be desired. System changes have repeatedly proved to be non-target. A high level of development requires practice-based training guidelines, which must not be directed towards any political influence. In the long term, the domestic labour market is characterised by high unemployment. Many employment conditions with low wages or minimum wages face high costs to meet daily needs and to finance the living space. Numerous unobserved warnings regarding the EU's services directives lead to structural deterioration of the labour market situation. Changes need to be made. The employment bonuses now envisaged by the Federal Government represent a solution with a high cost factor. The conditions of Austrian citizenship, education, employment and long-term unemployment must therefore be agreed. Rethinking should be done both in the time-limit and in the cost framework. In this context, the outsourcing of services by local companies, groups, mainly insurance companies, in neighbouring countries such as Hungary or Slovakia is particularly critical. Finally, it should be noted that: A large number of additional tax burden on a medium-sized economy, in particular gastronomy, but also on agriculture, also in relation to various free trade agreements. This results in my demand: Austria first! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8597	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8619	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Current hour: “Work for Austria – employment and training in focus”. – Now I have to ask the government parties, the coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ: Why haven't you implemented this yet? Secondly, I must say that policy has never created jobs, only the framework for that. I do not think these conditions have been sufficiently created by this coalition either. Ladies and gentlemen! Employment is important for people, the programme for older people over 50 years is also a right approach. Mr Muchitsch, you last misunderstand me, I said that this incentive is important, and I said an accompanying sentence: Let's hope it works, too, that it also works accordingly. Also important: Youth unemployment is far too high in Europe, but also in Austria. Every unemployed person is too much, that is out of question. It has been said again and again since EU accession – I believe you too, Mr Muchitsch, if I am not mistaken – that we have created so many jobs. I'm gonna ask you: How many jobs have been destroyed since then? – Many small Greißlers in the municipalities and smaller companies have disappeared, they have been rationalized. I think you should consider that. Education and training are essential, and everything needs to be done, even in the future, to reduce unemployment. There must continue to be incentives for businesses and companies in the future so that companies can again afford more employees. Mr Wöginger, you have mentioned that the reduction in additional labour costs is a correct approach, but only a small step. There are still many actions to be taken here so that this economic engine does not die in Austria, because I believe that training and education are tomorrow's jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8659	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:40:41]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8680	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8960	I also say that the Thirteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:40:58]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e8981	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that Mr Klubobmann has requested Dr. Strolz to report to the Committee on Education on Amendment 1445 A/(E) by Dr Strolz, Dr. Walser, colleagues on a commitment to withdraw party policy from the school administration for a period of up to 20 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that Mr Steinbichler, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, has requested to report to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the proposal from Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, a deadline of 24 June 1960/A of Parliamentary Committees. ==References== There is also one out of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the deadline request of the clubman Dr. Strolz. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. In addition, before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that 59 requests for deadlines have been received without any debate by members of the Freedom Club, each with a deadline for reporting to 27. ==References== With regard to the wording of these requests, I would like to refer to the copies of the deadline applications distributed in the room. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, the said time-limits will be put to the vote in order of their application. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9037	It is proposed that the debate on points 9 to 11 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9062	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63, NEOS and STRONACH per 33 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 17 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:44:26]] 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1643, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the EU Quality Regulations implementing law (1653, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9105	This leads us to the 1st place. Agenda item. I welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Rendi-Wagner. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9135	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Agenda item 1, we are dealing here with the Government document: Federal Law to amend the EU Quality Regulations Enforcement Act. On the whole, it is a question of introducing a control body or a division of competence in the control area for bio-products from third countries and to regulate this somewhat more precisely. We liberals have rejected this request in the Health Committee, not because we are in favour of fewer controls in this area, but rather because we want to have a law – and I come to this law in detail – which, in our opinion, also regulates the designation of origin more clearly, [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] for this law generally also regulates the protected geographical indication and control of these measures in Sections 14 to 16. Protected geographical indication – to illustrate: [[keeping an image of quality protected geographical indication in height]] This quality mark is also regulated in this law, the protected geographical indication suggests to the consumer when he goes into business that the product comes from the respective region. I would like to draw attention to this point by means of a classic example; I have already brought the example more often, but today I must mention it again: This is Tyrolean bacon, which I think I know, everyone. [[Keeping a panel in height on which a pack of bacon is shown with the imprint “Tyroler bacon”]] This Tyrolean bacon has protected geographical indication – and, Mrs Minister, this is also regulated in this law at least in parts. Now, however, we do not have any relevant meat and bacon production in Tyrol. Nevertheless, the company Handl – and the company Handl does this by law – is permitted to do so by law, but it bothers us that one may do so – on it a label that communicates to the consumer: protected geographical indication. Anyone who goes into business and buys Tyrolean bacon, believes this meat comes from Tyrol. It does not come from Tyrol, however, because Tyrol has no pigmeat production; it comes from Upper Austria, it comes from Germany, it comes from Denmark and other countries, and yet it is allowed to insert the label protected geographical indication. On the other hand, we are opposed, and therefore we reject this law, for we want to have regulated that there is really only what is in it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there is something else, and this is basically about labelling. There's another sign on it, and that's the AMA seal, I want to mention it again today. [[keeping the previously shown table with Tyrolean bacon in height]] It is simply necessary to point this out, and I know that I am doing so relatively often, but it is important for consumers to know what it is all about, and thus the competent authorities, such as the AMA Marketing and also the Ministry, know that we are not satisfied with this labelling. It's about this sign. [[keeping an image of the AMA seal in height]] Many know this label, and this label suggests Austrian quality to the consumer, namely best Austrian quality. But this label does not mean genetic freedom. If you see on a product this label, it can be genetic-free, but it does not have to be genetic-free. This label does not mean that the product is palm oil-free either. We discussed this in the last plenary session. There are products that have the AMA seal, the highest Austrian quality seal, and are not palm oil free. We have the third regime – which we have been fighting for several years, I would like to say – which allows producers to use a third of ingredients of foreign origin even in a product under the AMA seal if products are not available in Austria. We reject this, and we also want to have a regulation that this seal of quality corresponds to what it suggests to the consumer. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler]] Both quality marks, protected geographical indication and AMA seal are currently clearly regulated by law, but we believe they are misleading consumers. I would like to mention today something about this quality mark, and I have the last one. [[keeping the previously shown image of the AMA seal in height]] the Minister of Agriculture has already asked: If the seal of quality is to be of the highest and best quality, I wonder why it is so, as an examination of the Association for Consumer Information on Extrawurst has shown 16 varieties of extra sausages were examined – among the nine best varieties the AMA seal was found three times, among the five worst rated varieties four times. [[Keeping a magazine high]] I have not received an answer from the Minister to this day. We also want the best seal of quality to match what it suggests to the consumer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I would ask you, in the interests of consumers, to design the protected geographical indication in such a way that it is understandable and comprehensible to the consumer. This is about consumer protection, but it is also about farmers. Farmers also have a right to market their products as they are, namely domestic, Austrian products, and not products of foreign origin with these signs. [[The speaker, in turn, holds up the images of the quality mark protected geographical indication and the AMA quality seal.]] - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9278	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9376	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9397	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! EU Quality Regulations Enforcement Act – a very bulky title, a very technical law: What's this about? – It has already been mentioned by Mr Jannach: Bioproducts enjoy an ever-increasing popularity, and unfortunately one also happens: Bioproducts are not only produced regionally, but now also come from third countries. It is also important, I believe, to strengthen control, to ensure that products entering the market in Austria are subject to proper control. To this end, it is important that those who are so to speak and are experts are represented in the Control Committee; that is, in the future, they will be a representative of the Agriculture Chamber and the Bio Austria Association without voting rights in the Control Committee. The rights of national leaders will be strengthened, also in the sense of control on the ground and the possibility of relinquishing penalties in the event of minor infringements, and there will be more to be done in the direction of admonition. We had a very broad discussion at the last Committee meeting on: Food labelling – what is needed for this? Are there any errors? I just want to show this once again, because the impression has arisen, because there is nothing more passionate about it. – Much has happened when it comes to labelling foodstuffs. I should like to remind you once again: We have introduced the allergen marking with regard to the 14 most important allergens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] There is a minimum font size on packaging so that consumers can really read the information comprehensiblely. A freezing date for meat must, and probably the least, be stated; that is, in the case of meat products frozen, the date of freezing must be stated. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Because of the food scandals, there is a labelling of food imitation and adhesive meat, i.e. products in which meat pieces are processed must be marked with: assembled from meat pieces – so that consumers can see that meat has been processed of lower quality. All of this is important for consumers. At the end of last year, we introduced a mandatory labelling of calorie and nutritional information. Seven information must be provided: Focus, fat, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugar, protein, salt, always based on 100 grams or 100 millilitres of the food. Even here, of course, practical implementation is important, i.e., direct marketers, direct marketers can benefit from exceptions. Which is also particularly important: In the case of meat, we have made a complete label; that is, it must be stated: Where was the animal raised, where was it slaughtered? There must also be an identification of the meat lot – for fresh meat – plus: [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Only with fresh meat!]] A designation of origin was introduced at the initiative of Austria; if it originates in Austria, the animal must have been born and slaughtered in Austria as well as in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] – All this has happened; you can see that a lot has happened in this area. Now I come to the hotly discussed subject of the protected geographical indication: Mr Jannach, there is nothing in this legislative amendment. Why you reject this is not understandable, absolutely not! But yes, you can of course discuss the subject. We have ten protected designations of origin in Austria. Ten products in Austria are produced regionally, processed in the region and then marketed. These products may bear the protected designation of origin, such as Wachauer Marille, Vorarlberger Bergkäse. We also have six protected geographical indications in Austria, such as the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Oil from China!]] In the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil, the cultivation region is indicated: Styria, Burgenland or Lower Austria. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The core may be processed and the production regions indicated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] It can only be produced in Styria and Burgenland in certain districts. The Styrian pumpkin kernel oil is not regionally alone from the Styrian market, but it is quite clear where it may come from. Further: Marchfeldspargel and Tyrolean bacon. Mr Jannach, yes, the Tyrolean bacon is unfortunately one of the products in which the quality marking or the criteria for production are relatively far-reaching. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is also the pumpkin kernel oil!]] We know that, and I would like you to see with others perhaps the need to catch up, for example with the Gailtal bacon: If we say now, we're going to make this g.g.A. What does that mean? – There would no longer be Gailtal bacon in the future. We know, especially the Carinthians, that the Gail Valley is not able to operate the piglets themselves. The Gailtal farmers buy the piglets, so there is no protected designation of origin, but a protected geographical indication, because the meat for the bacon is from piglets which are raised in the Gail valley but which do not come from the Gail valley. Furthermore, the Styrian Creen and the Mostviertler Birnmost. – All these products would not be there then! I believe that producers are very likely to see that they are quality products, but we have to say quite clearly: Not all the value added, but the main value added takes place in the region, but not all happens in the region. We have a guaranteed traditional specialty, the hay milk. As it has been addressed why it can occur that there is protected geographical indication and AMA on it: because the AMA seal says that the meat is from Austria. That is, at Tyrolean bacon with protected geographical indication and AMA seal we know at least that it was produced in Tyrol with Austrian meat. – That is, I think, the most important thing for the customer. At the Tyrolean bacon it is like this: Five types of meat may be processed into bacon, the method of making the bacon is regulated – the customer can rely on all of this. Where I am with you, it is of course problematic if there is the AMA seal for meat from Austria, but the feed contains palm oil or is not free of genetic engineering. There, I think, we really need action, but that we do something, we also noticed it at the last committee meeting. With regard to palm oil products, there is the call – and it is now also implemented – that in the future products with palm oil are no longer allowed to carry an AMA seal.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9506	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9527	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear High House! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, we have carried out the EU quality regulation implementing law a little over a year ago and we also recognise the need to make necessary corrections, especially when it comes to the proportionality of low indebtedness and high penalties. Of course, we are fully involved. Unfortunately, there are some points that we will not carry here. Some previous speakers have already mentioned, it is about – what should I call it? – to make consumers a powerful consumer. So I think there is still a need for labeling, precise information, to become more honest and to have less hidden corners and angles. I think we must give the power, the decision to the powerful consumers and must not leave them in the hands of industry. There is another point that we are very critical of, and it is the design of strengthening the competence of the head of state. In fact, it is intended to gain insight into confidential information itself, and in terms of infringements of food, animal protection, food, plant protection, fertiliser or seed legislation, it is intended to give the national captain an intervention right. On the one hand, we think that this has to do with additional costs and staff, but on the other hand also with things that we should finally counter, go towards administrative and federalism reform and clean up processes, skills. Unfortunately, this regulation will put energy back into the old system, and that is why we will not carry it as a whole, and we will see some points that we are quite positive about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9561	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9584	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU Quality Regulations Enforcement Act is being amended. It essentially regulates the control process in the bio sector, but also points concerning protected designations of origin. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] There have already been a number of contributions from the previous speakers in this direction, and I should like to express my full support for Mr Vogl: The statements have made quite exactly what the content is and what is important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr Jannach, I should like to say the following: Yes, you can really discuss certain things, but I refuse to be insecure. Especially when discussing the AMA seal, in particular from your side there is always a lot of uncertainty that you would like to scatter. It is clear that the addition of ingredients that are not present in Austria is possible to the extent of a third, but it is also clear that the main ingredients still have to come from Austria and always from Austria – say: in the case of a sausage, the meat must come from Austria, otherwise there is no AMA seal. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Let me come back to the contents: This law has been in force for some time, but it needs some changes; Remedial improvements are announced. The responsibility for checks on biological consignments on imports from third countries and the flow of information between the authorities and the companies shall be re-regulated. In addition, this law deals with simplifying, clarifying, and removing excessive regulations. This law makes it clear that the responsibility for official controls remains with the national leaders, but other bodies can also be entrusted with it, especially when it comes to controls on imports of organic products from third countries. Other bodies, however, are subject to supervision and also to the instructions of the official bodies. As a rule, there are frontier doctors who carry out these checks. In general, more practical work will also be undertaken in the control process. We know the instrument of the Control Committee. This monitoring committee shall make the catalogues of measures, and this control committee shall be further updated by a representative of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture and by a representative of Bio Austria, acting in an advisory capacity. That's supposed to bring more practice. It is also intended to reduce excessive requirements, for example in § 5 para. 2 Z 6 the word sequence ‘in case of suspicion of obvious or gross transgression’ is replaced by the word sequence ‘in the case of a manifest, gross violation’. This concerns laws that are only indirectly related to the control process, and it is important from my point of view. One essential point is also the proportionality of sanctions. Strict sanctions are to be imposed where there is a fraudulent intention, where there is an impact on consumers, but not where something is unlawful, but the consequences of the violation are insignificant. In this respect, it is good that the supervisory bodies may also sanction them with an organ penalty or a warning in the exercise of infringements of the provisions of this Federal Law. That's important, as I mean. So this is a change in the law that brings more practicality and simplification. Too bad the FPÖ and the Stronach team don't go here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9653	The next speech is by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9675	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the EU quality regulation implementing law. In principle, this law is intended to regulate the control of organic products imported from third countries. If necessary improvements and corrections are now included in this law, then that is perfectly correct and in order. For example, the position of national leaders should be strengthened or distanced from an ad if the debt is small. The involvement of representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Bio Austria in certain activities of the Control Committee is also important and necessary. This involvement is a very important point and approach, because one must be ensured, my dear friend Ladies and gentlemen: that the consumer gets what he buys, and above all that is also inside what is on it. The President listens very excitedly. There must be no such thing as this, Mr President: Tricks with seal of goodness and, above all, trickery, which reaches third countries, must be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9712	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber is the next speaker: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9747	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is really an opportunity to praise the coalition parties, because they have leaped over their shadows, namely, when SPÖ and ÖVP agreed on the participation and consultation of the Chamber of Agriculture and the NGO Bio Austria, i.e. the organic farmers in Austria. These are now involved as experts in the Control Committee. You see, if you are consistently oriented to civil society, to the people, to the citizens, to the farmers, to the consumers, then there will also be a solution in this House – this is also a plea in educational reform. Take an example of the many active people in this country who work in a solution-oriented way! Therefore, a thank you to Mrs. Minister, that she has still done this law, and also a thank you to the employees of her house, because it is a lot of work to really solve these many detail questions cleanly! – I would like to mention this in advance. Now to the two, three points that are very essential: In the event of minor infringements, no ads need to be made. – Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking always of debureaucratisation, of proportionality. This is included in this law – Mr Eßl, you rightly mentioned it – and this is important for organic farming. This is important because it is completely incomprehensible when minor deviations from really strict directives lead to advertisements by authorities. That would be completely measured and disproportionate. That's what we can do now, and that's a good point in this law. It is also clear that import arrangements are important. Third country imports are risky. In the bio sector, this comes from far away, we also have to do something, not a question. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an EU quality regulation implementing law, that is, something that is based on EU law; but what is missing, Mrs Federal Minister – that is the criticism that comes from colleagues Jannach, from others and also from me – is an Austrian seal law to stop the wild growth in order to confuse quality schemes and consumer deception in that country. For years we have been working here in the house on this subject. We already had a joint decision-making in 2009, and nothing has happened to this day! Mr Vogl, if you come out today and say, Yes, that genetic engineering feed may still be used in the AMA seal, that is worthy of discussion!, then this is really understatement. - That's not reasonable! That's real consumer deception! And then the colleagues from the ÖVP turn up and say: This is the Austrian seal of goodness per se! – It can't be! So we need urgent action in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a success model, and that is quite clearly Bio.logic now! [[A panel with the title “BIO.LOGISH NOW! JA, ES GET!’ on the speaker’s desk]] Bio-agriculture is a success story for farmers, for consumers and also for food trade; and, of course, it is very crucial – we are in days where international debate is taking place, where the development, economic, social development is going – if a US President Trump wants to get out of the climate agreement, we have to resist it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must oppose it clearly, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the global challenge we face, and organic is one of the solutions in the 21st century. ==References== Bio is climate protection, on the whole surface best food, best quality, also in terms of biodiversity, in terms of water protection, in terms of soil protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only see that consumers say yes to organic. What is the problem now, at last, of making organic farming a guiding principle in Austria, so that environmental policy, climate protection policy, and also the opportunities of rural areas can be taken seriously? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9814	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9835	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This law makes some adjustments in the European equation. It is also useful that we take European steps, particularly in the field of food quality and also in the field of labelling. To do national singles, because these national singles always carry the risk of damaging the national sectors because we impose additional barriers to competition on businesses which the European competitor does not have. However, I would also generally like to lose a few sentences on the meeting of the Committee on Health, which took place last week, because it was painfully different than we were used to by the Committee. In fact, as is usual in the Committee on Agriculture, everything that came from the opposition has been postponed; in part, four amendments were made in the context of a speech contribution. There was no interest in discussing, for example, whether a doctor should not be able to hire another doctor without being immediately covered by the Hospital Law. – We didn't have the time. It was also not time or interest to discuss more liberal opening hours for pharmacies, we did not discuss the compensation fund for health insurance, how to take officials' insurance into responsibility to ensure the co-financing of unemployed people in health insurance, and we did not discuss how to integrate school medical data in ELGA – and these are really ideology-free topics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] Whether we include the health data in ELGA, this is a matter of practicality, that is, that school doctors do important work in the field of children's and youth health and that we let what is done there rot useless in the drawers. A SPÖ and an ÖVP can not even heat up on such issues to approach the content. This is still going on until October, and then a government formation will take place – and de facto nothing happens until February: This is sad because it happens on the back of the public's health.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9881	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9902	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, full approval of this EU quality regulation enforcement law! The contents were very detailed and well explained and explained by my previous speakers, and I can only underline this. I would like to stress that it was also very important for us and that it is good for the future that the Committee on Control now also includes the Chamber of Agriculture and the Association of Bio Austria, because there are experts, there are those people and specialists at home who deal with this subject every day and will certainly make a very good and valuable contribution to this evaluation. Let me turn to a very important point of content, which is well known to me as the chairman of the agricultural direct marketer and which I think needs to be paid more attention in the future; it is about the controls or the effects that result from it. It is important that action can be taken with measure and objective, just as it is prescribed and laid down in this law. However, I would like to point out a few points from practice, because it has been possible so far, in accordance with the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, with regard to supervisory bodies, with a measure and objective and to a desirable extent. Unfortunately, this has not always been done so far, but people have often been punished with the full hardness of the law in the case of bagatelle cases and have been pushed more or less to the edge of the ruin or forced to do so with overburdened demands. I can give you a few examples in this context. It's about: On various products, labels must be affixed, whether in honey, must, various oils, noodles and so on, and there are often small producers who, with the chambers in their backs, really try to declare their products as best they can with the associations in their backs. If, however, there were violations that did not pose a threat to human life or health, or only threatened the well-being of people in the first place or damaged the environment, sanctions were imposed. – All this was not the case, it was about pure formal errors that were harshly punished and sanctioned. How does this work in practice, Mrs. Federal Minister? – You have not been in office for so long; we have discussed this with your predecessor several times. We from the association strive to provide pattern labels for our members, which we create according to best knowledge and conscience. We will then send these pattern labels to the AGES for review. You know what happens then? – Not only does this cost a lot of money per sample label, but the experts of the AGES need up to three months to have really checked, checked and evaluated a label. Now we think of the small producer outside, the day-to-day thing to know for ourselves! And then there is the disproportionateness that often thousands of euros will be demanded when the font size is half a millimeter too small, too far left, right or whatever. For this there are dozens of examples that I can document to you that have happened outside. It can't be! If this is only a small error of form, more advice will have to be given in the future than punishment; I would also ask you to bring it into the house of the AGES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9953	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Rendi-Wagner, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e9975	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Much – and much right – has already been said. I can only briefly summarize my view regarding the present government paper on the EU quality regulation implementing law. The aim of the amendment is to improve the technical implementation of the 2009 EU Bio Regulation, which is the background. The aim of the current innovation is to define, in particular, important and, from our point of view, really necessary additional measures for official control, such as, in particular, import controls on organic products from third countries – a very important measure, which is finally clarified and regulated. It is about regulating the powers, control procedures, sanctions mechanisms and sanctions which are in the room here, and putting them on new feet or clarifying things better. That is to say, the clarifications that are achieved with this innovation serve to improve practical ability – and that has already been mentioned – and I think we have really been guilty of these clarifications on this issue. Now We have presented them, and I am pleased to have a broad agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10017	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1643 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the deletion of the term ‘PGI’ because of the error of consumers. Who agrees? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[11:18:38]] 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1877/A(E) by Mr Dietmar Keck, Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl, colleagues on voluntary information on food as regards the suitability for vegetarians or vegetarians in accordance with the EU Food Information Regulation (1654 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10087	Now we come to the 2nd. Agenda item. First speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10112	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! The essential content of this item is quite exciting. It stands as the title above “vegetarian” and “vegan”. It is, of course, requested that the Federal Minister at EU level, in the relevant working groups, use the criteria for the terms “vegetarian” and “vegan” and then work to adopt the relevant implementing acts as soon as possible. – All of this sounds pretty and pleasant for yourself. On the one hand, I see a red tape sample coming to us, on the other hand I see – due to the expressions of vegan and vegetarian – that this is treated very superficially and is not fair at all, because we already had a very serious discussion here, starting from Mrs Weigerstorfer, who at the time called for vegetarian products to be included in the Codex Alimentarius, which would be very useful. That would have been a real measure. If you say that the vegetarians and vegans are a small target group, I would like to highlight this from two sides: On the one hand, we have a growing market, the industry knows, on the other hand, we see an increasing number of people who have dedicated themselves to animal welfare and the environment for ethical and moral reasons. According to an IFES study, in 2013 about 750 000 Austrians called themselves vegetarians or vegans, which is already a stately number. If you go back to 2005, you can see that it was only 230 000 at that time. That is, about 9 to 10 percent of Austrians are on this path. The motivation is, as has been said, different: Environment, animal welfare, but also health, and this is exactly what our criticism is about. What about health? . We know today that there is a lack of nutrition, in particular among Vegans – about 80 000 in Austria. That may be true, but there should also be a discussion about what a lack and what is not a lack. Secondly, we also need to deal with the whole subgroups. To feed itself vegetarianally, i.e. fleshless, that does not mean that this is the alone, because there are subspecies up to the semi-vegetarians, to the flexitarians. It is more critical of the frutarians among the vegans: How do you want to provide information for people who don't even eat the tube because they believe that the fruit is broken? In my opinion, there is quite a surface together, and there is a need to go deeper into it: Where's damage? Where are flaws reported? What about the finished products? – If you are going to a supermarket chain today, you will find a large number of finished products. That's true, because in these products quite a lot is processed. For example, because this was mentioned earlier, you have palm oil, palm fats or coconut oil inside. These are high-tech foods. Even as a confessing vegetarian, I must say: This is a matter of caution, so of course, a million business is being made by industry. The demand to include these products in the Codex Alimentarius and to intervene at national level would all be the right way to document this and show that a green Veggiepickerl is far from saying that the product is healthy. Think of the extra sausage test of the Consumer Information Association – Mr Jannach has already mentioned it in connection with the AMA seal today. It is similar with vegetarian and vegan products. As far as I can remember, from – I don't know exactly – 18 species of extra sausages were eroded as vegetarian or vegan and extremely alarming and even health-inhibiting. Finally, I would like to refer to the word of a former Minister of Health, which we have already welcomed here today, Dr. Stöger. [[Call the NEOS Doctor?]] He said something that is very beautiful in relation to allergens and cancer: "Not only should food professionals know what is in the food book, but consumers should also be able to see how their food must be marked and what they are allowed to contain. You have a right to information”. – I say: But on correct information, not only on voluntary information that may have to be created by businesses. A final sentence: Of course, the criticism is also in the same water. You can remember the mussels and chocolates, all contaminated with aromatic mineral oils. There you can also see: Diet is a central topic, not only today, but tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10147	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10169	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The motion for a resolution, 1877/A(E), deals with voluntary information on food as regards the suitability of vegetarians or vegetarians. This requires an EU-wide labelling of foods that are suitable for appropriate nutrition. According to Vegan society, in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, 9 percent of the population of Vegans or vegetarians are. The purpose of this scheme is to make it easier for the relevant population groups to consistently implement their lifestyle and their diet. There are already different quality seals in this area, but these do not have a uniform and above all no statutory and guaranteed standard on the basis. The current legislation states that any substance used in the manufacture of a product must be declared. What do these labels look like? – All substances present in the final product, whether unchanged or changed, must be declared in descending order of the respective weight content at the time of use in the list of ingredients. This Regulation has been applicable since the adoption of the LMIV, i.e. the EU Food Information Regulation in 2011. It calls for all essential information on the product to be made clear on the basis of the list of ingredients. This regulation is very important for consumers, but it makes it often difficult to recognize vegan and vegetarian food at first sight. Even clearer and more uniform rules for food standards suitable for vegetarians and vegans can greatly facilitate the choice of food for the population concerned. This will also prevent the use of various seal of quality in circulation and may even be misleading, ambiguous or misunderstanding. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this only makes sense if these standards apply across Europe, so they must be negotiated at EU level. National regulatory concepts are not targeted and can also be counterproductive with a view to a common market and a uniform information for consumers. In the case of free movement of goods, national labelling simply makes no sense and only causes confusion. We therefore call for the competent Minister of Health at EU level to work in the relevant working groups for a rapid definition of the criteria for the terms vegetarian and vegan in order to apply them throughout Europe. The European Commission should ensure that the notified implementing acts are adopted as soon as possible. As mentioned above, this Regulation was adopted in 2011, in which the Commission announced an implementing act for the voluntary provision of information on a particular food for vegetarians or vegetarians. This has not yet been done and should be picked up as quickly as possible. For this reason: Do you, Mrs Health Minister, agree with the relevant EU bodies that these rules will finally be enforced?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10214	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10235	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers have already mentioned that there is an EU regulation, namely number 1169/2011, which provides that voluntary information on food can also be provided. As regards the suitability of a food for vegetarians and vegans, it is noted that the Commission is to adopt an implementing act. This has not yet been done, and this is why we are calling on the Minister for Health to take action across the EU to ensure that this is done relatively quickly. As we are now dealing with this issue: I am not necessarily the one to be assigned to the group of vegans and vegetarians because I believe that meat, fish, milk and dairy products are healthy food for humans. But if someone chooses the way to live vegan or vegetarian, then he should also have the option of having a secure option to choose such products. It has already been mentioned: In 2013 – these are the most recent figures – about 9 percent of the population in Austria have allocated to this group. If you take those under 40, it was much more, there were 17 percent. So that's not an insignificant group, and that's why, I think, it's right to make clear the criteria to be met so that food can be called vegan or vegetarian. However, this motion for a resolution also gives us the opportunity, of course, to discuss food as a whole, and this raises the question of what consumers actually want. Of course, you want high quality products at a low price. There we are in a field of tension, especially with farmers who produce these foods, because farmers must live from the sale of these foods, from the proceeds of sales. Thank God it is so that prices in the food sector recover after an extreme low in recent years. The products are again in demand, both in the meat sector and in the milk sector there is a growing demand, and this gives confidence for the future. Consumers are also willing to pay more for a product in certain cases if they can recognise an added value, and consumers want to know about the type of production, about the freshness of food and also about its origin. Austria has a really wide range of products to offer, domestic products taste well and have a lot of added value. The Austrians also stand on the domestic products because they know that by buying domestic products, they get excellent quality that they not only help farmers but also secure their own workplace and provide a living space with quality of life. I would like to thank the consumers, but I also thank the farmers who make these food available.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10284	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10305	This was something like a round-positive welcome speech by Mr Eßl: How great it's not what's happening, which isn't all that's being done. – Yes, the practice looks different, Mr Eßl. For years my colleague Brunner has been seeking an Austrian legal regime for the names vegetarian and vegan. Why should we not be pioneers in Europe? [[Abg. Hammer: Because it's not important!]] If there is no European legislation, we have the opportunity under the EU Treaty to act politically. We can deal with this, it's not talking about it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Riemer.]] [[Abg. Hammer: Because we don't have any other worries!]] You see, and this is exactly the lack of courage in politics, which shows in this example what would actually be possible, but not happen. People are tired of it, consumers, especially young people do not understand it anymore, they rightly do not understand it. Equally in education policy: You don't understand! There are good arguments that experts sit at a table and say:Yes, we do something!, and then come back a few back-belts from this side and say: [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] We don't do that, we're still talking there, we're still doing it! The same is true here: a request addressed to the European Commission or to the Minister to take action at European level. – Yes, yes, that’s all beautiful and good, but take steps in your own house. Mrs Minister, you are only a short time in this function, I have to help you, but it would be an hour to set up an Austrian quality seal law, which also regulates the terms vegetarian and vegan, which also regulates, among other things, what can really be a quality seal and what leads to the name and what is only misguided and consumer deception. To keep this apart, Mr Eßl, we are definitely guilty to consumers – still guilty! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the Stronach team.]] On the subject of meat consumption, I must say: Globally, this is a big asset, we have something to do! We cannot globalize our diet. I am not against meat, Mr Eßl, I am for organic animal husbandry. Animals eat grass, and, as I said, we humans cannot exploit it, there are also other regions of this earth with steppes, with grassland that are not suitable for human nutrition, but can be used through animal finishing, yes, but please with soil-bound animal husbandry, species-right attitude, species-right feeding – do not make the cow the sow as it happens in part. For example, the industrial mast in Texas, which ransacked feedlots with 50,000, 100,000 animals in the narrowest space, with gullibles: This is an agricultural industrial development in the meat industry, which we do not want to prevent, and which we must also address, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the Stronach team.]] On this occasion, I would like to thank these initiatives and these young people in the vegans, in the vegetarian movement, who do just that, ethically motivated to change their way of life, who also wear it among the people who also live it. So real recognition to all those. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dietrich.]] Today, many young students are here, and I believe that public relations and consumer information are quite, very important, and we can still do a lot, Mrs Minister. Finally, Mr Keck, who said that there was nothing national to regulate: That's not true at all! We have a good example of where we did it: We celebrate 20 years of genetic engineering freedom and have regulated the label genetic engineering-free in the Austrian food codex. 1 600 foods are now marked like this – 1 600! – and other countries have now imitated it, Germany, France, Switzerland and Ireland have a marking system. We also wish ourselves a European harmonisation and dissemination, not a question, but there we were pioneers, there we are pioneers, and there you see how successful such a strategy could be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10383	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10404	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear High House! Information to consumers is a very, very important point. I believe that powerful consumers are what the future will bring, because if you have freedom of choice, you can also choose correctly and decide for yourself what is right and what is wrong and how, for example, you want to act preventively towards health. That is why we are very, very positive about this proposal, because it concerns information for consumers. But what bothers us a little bit is that we are hiding behind the EU Food Information Regulation once again, and that is a little bit more, because we have known it for many, many years: It is always about common European solutions. Yes, but what happens if nothing happens to the EU? – I can tell you what happens: There's nothing happening, there's a standstill! And that's exactly what we're doing in this case. It really raises this question, I hear it in the committees, I hear it in plenary, we hear again and again about the pioneering role of Austria, and I have to say: Unfortunately, we are very, very far away. I would like the Federal Government to take advantage of the national scope for action much more, especially when it comes to information for consumers, because there is still a great need for action, especially in the food sector, in food labelling. Since 2009 alone, we have been waiting for a quality seal law, for example for the labelling of eggs in processed products and in the gastronomy and above all for an improved designation of origin of processed meat. The current compulsory marking concerns fresh, chilled and frozen meat, but does not apply to processed meat. Only transparent labelling can give consumers real freedom of choice and freedom of choice, and in this sense I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10464	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10535	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10572	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I am really pleased that more and more of my topics are actually being addressed, and I repeat something again, because this may have happened too little before with colleagues Jannach: The g.g.A. sign is to be forgotten, that deceives consumers! If you are honest with the label, you can take this picture here in the middle, the sign of the G.U., which tells us where the raw materials come from. [[pointing to the table set before him]] I think everyone wants to prove honesty, can immediately from p.g.A. on p.U. to change. On this request: Yes, the voluntaryity is given, but I think it is a business field; unfortunately, the vegan way of life is also abused as a business field. If I may remind you: There is now no more artificial cheese, now there is vegan cheese. We know the ingredients – I don't want to spoil the appetite at lunch, but wish you a blessed meal: This is a mixture of palm oil, snails and shells and chemical ingredients, and that is artificial cheese. Because the word animal welfare, animal welfare has already fallen in connection with vegan, I am sure to point out what a disaster it means for the regional animal world on the ground and the regional population when a thousand hectares of rainforest per hour are rode. We then have the topic of asylum seekers, because people cannot live and are driven out there. In addition, on the palm oil plantations, 5 000 orangutans are laid with the rifle because they produce the fruits Stealing, so there the animals are brutally dealt with. It is written to all those in the parent book who believe that one can promote animal welfare and animal welfare with the vegan way of life. The same applies to health: Especially in palm oil there is a lot of glycosate inside, and we know that there are studies on cancer excitement; we also need to point out. A vegan product, currently from the sales shelf, is Becel Vegan – of course with palm oil. [[Keeping the said product in height]] However, because we are in the field of food labelling, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution. This can has already seen this house, that's liquid. [[keeping a canister in height]] There are eggs in liquid form, there are Egg in rod shape, there are Egg in dust form – that is, what the food industry produces there is limited, which belongs to the consumer to be comprehensible and transparent. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10648	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10718	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Rendi-Wagner, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Steinbichler talks with Federal Minister Rendi-Wagner.]] [[Call:Leo, let the woman minister...]] Mr deputies, you should not prevent Mrs. Minister from speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10759	Mr President. Tactically wise! Yes, we agree: Diet is a central issue, especially when it comes to consumer information – no doubt – but the way there is another. With regard to food labelling as regards suitability for vegetarians and vegans, this is from our To solve already at EU level and to clarify there, and not at national level, simply because otherwise it is not appropriate. If you look at the product range of those foods that are excellent for vegans and vegetarians, you can see that they are to a large extent from the international area. If we were to do this purely at national level, we would have pictured a very small product range that would carry this label almost alone and isolated. This is not useful – even useful, I believe, for targeted consumer information. I will therefore continue to work on this important issue at EU level, as in the past, with regard to the implementing acts concerning voluntary information on the suitability of food for vegans and vegetarians. My commitment is to continue to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10798	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the resolution on voluntary food information on the suitability of vegetarians and vegetarians in accordance with the EU Food Information Regulation, annexed to the Committee's report 1654. Who agrees to this request? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 203.) We shall also be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'the designation of origin of meat in processed foods'. I ask for your consent. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the label of eggs. Who agrees to this request? – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. [[11:47:33]] 3rd. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 2171/A by Dr Karlheinz Dägenle, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (1655 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10877	So we come to the 3rd. Agenda item. First speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10902	Mr President. Minister! High house! With this novel of the Studienförderungsgesetz, we put a closing stone behind a multi-year process. I am quoting the responsible officials present here at the Ministry, Dr. Alexander Marinovic, who spoke of a closing stone. During my ministerial term at the University Conference, we set up a working group to find out how to optimise the funding of studies. We have made several novels and now presented an extensive novel with a larger financial framework, which brings a significant improvement in the funding of studies: a larger relationship, a significant increase in rates – these are the most important steps – and it also brings a higher dosage for older students; thus a very beautiful and good thing, and the volume could also be significantly increased at the last moment. I do not hide that this was a major concern of our coalition partner, whom we then agreed to in intensive negotiations, which makes students much more encouraged. This is a good example of how it can be done to bring laws to a very good conclusion even in an urgent period, and leads me to the appeal to try the same in terms of study ground funding, especially as the work programme of the Federal Government by January states that the innovation of the study aid we now decide should be accompanied by the funding of study places. – We now decide to accompany them, but what should be in the center is still going on. It should be possible to make this possible, therefore my appeal to try a legislative decision in this respect too; it would be extremely important for the universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a typical Cairo that we find here, a convenient, good moment – Cairos is the God of the favorable moment that you have to pack in the kick so that you can catch him – which we still have to catch now, otherwise the window that is now open is closed until the next performance agreement negotiations again four years; we should definitely do that. [[Abg. Moser: “Kairos”!]] It would be a whole new, transparent, consistent funding of universities, in whose center the students and the teaching would finally stand; a real paradigm change that we urgently need, so that universities can finally provide adequate support for their students and that the universities can finally offer teachers an environment in which they can teach, work scientifically and care for the feeling that everyone has the feeling, there is quality. On the one hand, just as German Chancellor Kern did in his Welser speech, we cannot demand international top-class universities and leave them alone on the other side; we simply cannot do that. Federal Chancellor Kern also reached the right conclusion at the time by saying that the study ground funding had to come. He also spoke of maximum numbers, he spoke of a better control of student flows – all of which would be funded by the study place. We have been discussing this with the coalition partner since March, there have been the first talks; there was the presentation of the first legislative texts in early May. The whole novelle is a total of nine pages long, nine pages... – We treat it first internally in the coalition, and then it will also get the opposition. [[Abg. Maurer: Where is she? We don't have her!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser]] [[Abg. Maurer:... Parliamentarism!]] This novel is nine pages long, the text has been available for several weeks and would have to be firm; the opposition will get it if it is internally tuned. Unfortunately, he has not yet been voted on internally, that is not our fault. In any case, I appeal once again to the coalition partner and, of course, to the opposition to support us here so that universities can finally get a financing with which they can plan cleanly, with which they can also teach the quality that is constantly expected of them and which they supply in research. This benefits everyone and brings us much further in science. With this appeal I would like to close my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e10985	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11006	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we will probably be able to make a truly happy decision and increase the funding of studies to an extent that will be truly positive for the students in our country, will facilitate the situation of life and, hopefully, will also allow for a smoother continuation in our studies. Over the last few years, we have always managed to get on with each other in small steps, in real steps, in important steps, but for us, for the SPÖ, it has always been clear that we need a bigger step that students really feel and that also helps to relax their situation accordingly. We are pleased to have worked out this decision together with the ÖVP over the last few weeks. We will increase the funding of studies to an extent that is noticeable in the monthly income of students. It is about the support of students who have parents whose wallet is not sufficiently thick to support the children themselves, and with this we can reach out to them. That is what we are deeply concerned about: that we people who have talent have the interests that want to form, who want a good education, can reach out to the poor, even if the parents who would certainly like to do so cannot do so to the extent. We will thus achieve with this novel that we can increase support, which was urgently necessary, which we have not managed to achieve to the extent necessary for far too long, and we will also achieve that more students will have a right to study and receive this support in the future. We are using the measures at those points where, as we know from the student social survey, support is particularly necessary. So this is one thing that is very encouraging, and I would also like to say particularly positively that we have done this with each other, in a political climate, which is, of course, no longer the simplest, since the coalition has been announced. This is the second issue I have just raised, namely the funding of study places, a subject which – at least at the moment – is not so simple: We have always supported the development of a new model with a fair and transparent form of the distribution of university funding funds. We have also held discussions in the last few days, we have been there for two weeks, I think, in the draft law, which is not insanely thick on the sides, but nine pages, you know all, can also have it in itself from the effects of course. One has to imagine the funding of study places from the complexity as if one were to make a tax-structural reform – that is, something that is perhaps not far-reaching from the text, but for which many calculations have to be made, about how individual measures – wheels, on which one turns – affect, and to do so, one simply needs time. We have taken time for the negotiation of the educational reform for many months – two years – and we have been negotiating the legal text for two weeks on the place of study funding. – I think it is very bad, Minister Mahrer, that there has been a junkim here for a few days since the weekend; They have curtailed the educational reform and the study site funding. It is a shame to block an extensive package, to block the educational reform that is so important for our schools, a package that has been negotiated for two years, in which we have already had a two-thirds majority – and this is only to fail because we want to push another matter that is also a complex one through the house in the shortest time. This is a style – both the junk animation and the whipping through the house – that we do not want to carry. [[Abg. Scherak: You've been doing this for 30 years!]] We are, of course, prepared to negotiate here in a serious way; we need time to do so at other materials, if necessary, yes. The original plan would have been to have a common approach by June, possibly already a common legislative proposal to go into review and decide together in autumn. – Unfortunately, this is because the Federal Government, the coalition has been blown into the air, has been messed up. Whoever has blown the coalition into the air, that's, I think, also clear, keep the black Peter! We are willing to talk further when you disband the junkim and when you are ready to talk again in a normal political style.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11046	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11067	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the house and at home in front of the televisions! This law we carry with us, we will decide, that is a unanimous matter. This has been the first increase in study aid since 2006, I believe; it has long been due, and it is really the smallest common denominator here in the House with regard to science policy. We have made other demands in this regard, because we believe that it is a minimum consensus, but actually a shame for the House of Deputies to achieve only such a small deficit. We also wanted that, with regard to students who, we say, earn money in non-learning times, in times when they might interrupt their studies, have income, the Studienförderungsgesetz 1992 will be amended to ensure that income is not counted at the level of € 10,000 in pre-reading periods and in periods of non-aid. We continued to wish that funding and performance grants in the overall pot, which now account for 5 percent of the total amount of aid, would be significantly increased. It is strange to me that the Members of the People's Party, who are always for the volunteers, the middle class and those who are willing to do so, have not agreed on this point on which this group is concerned. In addition, it is to be said that we really have problems, real needs and real challenges: The university landscape, our universities face enormous challenges. You have to claim yourself internationally. It is of course also important for young people to find institutions that prepare young people for the requirements of the future. We all know the classic models in California, the Silicon Valley, but also Asia, where it is already shown, how the universities of the future, how the requirements of the future are to look forward to, and where they are lived. We here in Austria, on the other hand, experience a massive uncertainty at the universities. In reality, there is no proper budget for the service agreements over the next three years. We've done our homework: We have already held a clause in February and put a fixed science programme on the table, in which many topics that are now under discussion are explained, for example very concretely and as a central point the funding of study places. We know that today we still have – and this will not change in the foreseeable future – university funding. The entire budget, which is available there, goes directly to the universities and is divided there as needed, but it is more or less anonymized and diffused, while we assume that the funding of the universities in the future is only about the funding of the places of study. This is just a small point, but an essential point in our concept. Mrs Kuntzl, and also Mr Denke, you are now heard: It's all very complicated, we need time! – Well, you do not have the first period of the Great Coalition, not the second period of the Great Coalition, you have been together for some time. And we all know the problems that occur, and you can't say now, three months before this time of government expires: We must start negotiating, we must consider how things will continue in the future! - That's no more excuse. I would also like to make a brief comment on the style. This has not changed at all here in the House, although great announcements have been made from both sides to use this time until election as a coalition free time with free and freer forms of opinion. You, Minister, have invited a six-party meeting. This may be very plausible at first sight; I would just like to say: Getting invitations on Friday evening at 8 p.m. on a window day is not a good style either. You can't personally do anything about it, you didn't send it personally, but you can make a show and use us as an opposition to a headline policy – we're not available for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, the Scientific Committee has previously committed itself. You know, Minister, even with your predecessor, it was like this: You would only have had to report, call, write an e-mail, and we could have put this on the agenda in a six-party request and discussed these things there. In conclusion, I would like to say: The universities do not really need politics, they need it for funding, but we all need it as a society to meet the needs of the future, the universities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11135	Mrs Maurer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11156	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spectators! The item on the agenda concerns the promotion of studies, which we all now jointly improve. We significantly increase them by €60 million, and that is basically a very good and important step. We know that there has been no valorization of study funding for quite a long time, and it is good that we now decide on these €60 million. It is possible to These land directly with the students, and that's a good thing. They need this urgently, they need the money. It is necessary to take care – and I would remind you, Minister – of the fact that the scholarships expect 16 000 additional applications to be made under this reform. We must ensure that these applications can also be dealt with in a timely manner. They have assured the Committee that there will be corresponding staff increases. I would also like to remind you publicly that this is very important so that students do not have time delays when they submit their requests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, like my colleagues, I would like to address another major subject of science policy, namely university funding, which is always on undulating legs. Former Minister Mitterlehner has promised the universities to make €1.35 billion available for the next service agreement period. They all know that at the end of the year, at the end of 2017, there must be agreement on this amount, and universities also need this information in order to have planning security. But now we have the situation that we have neither a budget nor a federal financial framework this year, and there is neither this agreement nor this one. That's to say, the uniforms are hanging in the air. This is a condition that is not portable. We need this security for the universities, this is about legal and planning security, and I do not think that in this House there is anyone against the fact that universities are financially insured so that they can work well. What I cannot agree with, however, are these jubilation reports on the funding of the study site. I think it's quite surprising that Karlheinz Dägenle is talking about a model that we don't have at all. We still do not have a legislative text, and I find it quite unacceptable to Parliament that we are discussing something, even in plenary, although the text of the law has not been published. There's no review. It is a complex matter, as has already been said, with quite a lot of medium and long-term effects, and it would be necessary for a serious debate to come to the table. But I can say two things without knowing the paper. The first is: We Greens certainly do not agree with access restrictions. We know from the models still presented by Mr Mitterlehner that what the ministry is planning would lead, for example, to a halving of the number of places of study in Jus studies. I'm sure we're not. We are in favour of all those who want to study, and according to that, there is a need for a teaching. We are not in favour of the university excluding students. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the second point, Mr Mahrer: We took out the media yesterday, that You want to injunctify the decision of this university funding with the educational reform – the educational reform that has now been negotiated for many years, which includes extremely many important points for schools, for the teachers, for the students. And you're saying that's supposed to be junctimized. Today I take the APA again: This is a rumor, and there is no junkimation of study ground financing and educational reform. I now regard this as a rejection of this junk animation and see it as a positive sign. Mr Mahrer, we have an agreement. We are waiting for the legislative text, and we are always ready to decide and close this centenarian school package, this great educational reform with you. We have this agreement. Please let us know. We can do this before that text of law! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Grossmann.]] I think we are doing well to complete these areas. We now succeed in promoting these €60 million, we obviously do not succeed in the €1.35 billion that universities need as a guarantee for the next service agreement period, and there is a danger of further delay in the reform of education. We are, as I have said, ready to conclude this. We also have time to do this in peace, but now please stop this game of concealment and give us the text of the law so that we can finally close it – in the sense of the students, in the sense of teachers, in the sense of education in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11234	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11253	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to start by briefly referring to the contributions made by my colleagues. Mr Denzel has mentioned briefly, with regard to certain problems: The ÖVP is not to blame! I wonder why it is obvious here for a few weeks or since the coalition began to crumble, always on the question of who is now guilty of the blockade of the bill or the law idea of the other. It's always about who's to blame for preventing something, it's not about what the contents are, what we're talking about. Especially on the subject of university funding, it is obviously not a matter of talking about how different parties are in principle about system change. It's always about who's to blame. And yes, in that case I have to say: If Mrs Kuntzl says that the SPÖ is ready to talk about it, we will! We know what it is all about; then we really talk about it in terms of content! The chancellor said that was not an election topic. – I think some of the 300,000 students are eligible for election. It is already relevant to these, as the future of the universities looks. This is certainly an election topic! It may be that it doesn't concern your usual clients, be the pensioner or the ÖVP from time to time farmers or whoever's just available – that's for you then election topics. However, the issue of university funding is already an election topic, because it is a topic of the future. It is about how to allow universities at all to survive the next service agreement period financially. It is about how to put the higher education system in a long-term, sustainable and different way on new and really secure legs, so that one has a future-oriented system in which there are no more global budgets in which it is not comprehensible, how the budgets are distributed, but what is assumed by the student, how to focus on students, and how to find a transparent budgeting method. Let's talk about it! - But no, the SPÖ says: We're ready, and then she's not doing anything. But when we talk about debt allocations: They're both exactly the same. Can you honestly say here that both of you are simply not interested in anything at all happening that you are not interested in the reform of education on the part of the EIA? On the part of the SPÖ, are there no interest in the funding of the study site?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, the ÖVP is also sorry because, among other things, it does not want to allow the Vorarlberger children to try out the entire school in the model region, because – I try to put myself into the way of an ÖVPler – God keeps it, it could work. That's horrible! So we don't even try it and we don't even make it possible. The whole thing is then connected to be able to claim in retrospect: We've blocked each other, position war, we can't do anything now! Then nothing happens again until the election; but on the subject of university financing it is no longer possible. It's no longer possible because it has to go through before the election. The universities need security about whether they get the higher budget or not. It's not going to work out any more. It's really just ridiculous to make up here, to carry out this divorce war at the front of the speaker's desk, and then to be able to claim: The other one's to blame! – You really are always concerned about who is guilty in this matter, always only about who is guilty in Parliament, and certainly not about who is convinced who is on which subject, on which proposal is the way, and finally who is doing what. This has never been the subject here, and I believe that is the disappointment that voters no longer want. You can only hope that this will be different from the autumn, but you have the fear that if one of the two partners is going to be here again in the government, nothing will change either. The fact that we are increasing study aid now is an urgent issue, but it has also been shown that for years it has been accepted that it is an unsustainable state, and we are now only correcting in the final effect what has been missed in the past few years. That is not enough, it is certainly not a big throw in which to consider how to put the aid system on new feet in principle. This is a correction, an urgently needed correction, which is intended to enable students not to be prevented from studying just because they have a social background, because they do not get help from home, because of which they do not receive support. By the way, the SPÖ has simply taken years to ensure that this works in Austria. I hope that in the next few days there will be an agreement on university funding and also on education reform, because both are issues that have a lot to do with each other, but which one should certainly not play out against each other, because ultimately we all lose, and the next generation loses most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11320	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11341	Mr President. Minister! Dear High House! I hope you'll forgive me if I don't throw allegations around me right now. I hope you'll forgive me if I don't give any election speeches here, but I'm going to take care of the subject matter. An increase in study aid was made the last time ten years ago. Of course, we find it very, very good and very, very important that this is now also here. It will be concluded, and we will give our full support. However, I would like to point out some aspects. We find it very important that students can also gain professional experience, and this study grant is certainly a good support, but I think that you should reconsider your commitment limit. Although it was raised from €8 000 to €10 000 in 2014, we also know that about 80 percent of students are employed. There is a study or a list of the Vienna University of Economics, about what the students spend about: For living in about 300 to 450 €, health insurance, vital goods, public transport, mobile phones, internet, maintenance, leisure, books alone are a cost factor of about 75 to 150 € per month. Overall, it is calculated, students have about €995, i.e. almost €1 000, per month of living costs. That means, if a student is diligent, of course, he receives a promotion, but also exceeds this €10,000 earn limit and is then asked to repay the support. I think there should be some improvement in this area, but in principle the increase in study aid is a very important step, for which I would also like to thank myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11381	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11402	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can also warmly welcome some 90 students from Vorarlberg, more precisely from the Neue Mittelschule Wolfurt! Thank God to you from my colleague, Mr Sieber! Welcome to the High House! [[General condolences.]] With today's decision, of course, we are improving the financial situation of many students here in Austria. And with the coming winter semester, around 50,000 students will be able to benefit from the increased study allowance of €500, but also upward, depending on the condition. This thus creates better conditions for those who need it to be able to pursue a study. To complete a study should not be reserved for a small group. But it doesn't have to follow a classic path, that is, you don't have to switch to the university immediately after Matura, but can also use the opportunity to gain professional experience and then start studying. However, you can also take advantage of the possibility of studying after a completed teaching. Especially the latter is important to me, also with regard to the students who are here today: In Austrian higher education, in our training systems we allow a certain permeability. In particular, teaching is also an excellent training which creates the best conditions for the professional path and which is by no means contrary to the fact that after that it is still continuing to study and to learn a subject of study. However, the adjustment of the study aid is only an instrument to improve the framework conditions for students. Whatever it takes – and this has been mentioned more often today – is a change in university funding. A similar concept has already been presented and is also agreed with those who are really concerned, namely the universities themselves. The only question is whether we are going to have time up to 15. Use constructively in order to set the course for better study conditions for teachers, for researchers and for students, for a change of system to finance the study site, which was considered to be useful by all the representatives – at least so far. Just put more money into the system, as it has been proposed recently, does not solve the problems. It must be implemented in order to ensure greater planning for universities, in order to improve the care conditions at our universities, and thus to ensure the appropriate infrastructure for research, for teachers. We of the ÖVP definitely have an interest in it and we also want to work constructively on it and put the course here as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11453	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11475	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Austria's most important resource is its people with their talents, with their qualifications, and since it must not depend on the wallet of the parents whose gifts are promoted. We cannot afford to give up any gift. Therefore, education – ideally from elementary education to school education up to higher education – must be free from financial and other barriers. There is, of course, this increase, this valorization of the study aid, a very important contribution to the right of opportunity, and I am pleased that we have been able to reach such a broad agreement here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also – because it was addressed – by no means an example of debt allocations, but that is concrete solution orientation! May more such examples follow, for example in the reform of education, where I ask you, Minister, to put off lazy junkims. We have a ready-made package here, where it really only needs your approval, your final approval. We have made a lot of contributions. You and your team have made constructive, valuable contributions. The Greens have also made a very good compromise proposal. Now it is about advocating the package and simply opening the way for a modern education policy across Austria. That's why I'm looking for you at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, this is a very important project to support families with studyable children in order to compensate for the cost of living. The housing costs have increased. However, there are even more opportunities for students to get under the arms, for example by automatically disbursing family support to students or – another example – extending the maintenance advance to over 18-year-olds. We have very dramatic cases in Austria in which children have to complain to their dependent parents in order to secure their livelihood. In fact, this should not happen in Austria anymore. That is why I would like to ask you to reflect on these issues together. In any case, thank you for your broad support for increasing the study aid!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11523	Next, Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11544	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the previous speaker from my group has already said, we very much agree with this proposal. But unfortunately, the government has still forgotten that there are very diligent students who work in their leisure time in summer and are disadvantaged by the fact that the limit for reasonable self-performance for students is exceeded of € 10 000. They are punished by the legislator by shortening the amount of the study aid. And there I wonder where the sage “performance must be rewarded” actually remains. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would therefore be appropriate not to add income from the lecture-free period or from periods in which no aid is granted to self-service. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, I make a request to facilitate working students who make a request for approval of the study contribution. At present, only the income tax bill of the previous year is considered to be proof of whether the conditions are met. At the universities, however, the follow-up to the study for the respective summer semester is already possible every year at the end of January. But at the end of January, it is not feasible to present an income tax bill for the past year. So students have to pay the study fee first and then make a request for reimbursement. This is an unnecessary administrative burden. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11626	The two motions for resolutions, drawn up by Mrs Lintl, have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11773	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11794	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for the students in this country. Talking to students is one of the biggest concerns and one of the biggest problems always the question: How do I get out at the end of the month with the few money?, or even: How do I get money to spend the rest of the month with it? – That is why it is good that we have decided, for a long time, what students have been waiting for, that there is a valorization of student funding, now here, all the groups in common. The students will thank us. 50 000 students in Austria are dependent on and benefit from study funding and from this increase. We expect older students to have different framework conditions. We are looking at the corresponding inflation and other things that have not been optimally designed to ensure the success of the study funding so far. That's why it's good that we do this. For the students, however, it is not only crucial that they come rounds themselves at the end of the month, but what is essential for Austria, for our location, is Austria's scientific and research location, the framework conditions, the teachers who find the universities and the students as well. That is why it is important – and it has been addressed by colleague Gamon before – to: The uniforms need the money! The universities need planning security for the next performance agreement. And we should – that is now the appeal to this house – not let the time pass until October, just because elections are coming, but rather use them to find solutions to create the framework conditions for the universities to plan properly, and to ensure that there are proper framework conditions for students and teachers. It is essential that certain commitments are respected. Minister Mitterlehner has announced that he will make a science billion available. And now we have to talk about it: What does that mean? And the goal is to provide € 510 million for the study place financing. Minister of Finance Schelling has provided the money. The condition is, of course, that we also come here to a proper decision on the subject of student funding. This is the prerequisite for these improvements. That is why it is so important to us that we now also agree on the topic of funding for study places. If we do not do so if we do not allow time to pass, then three years will pass until there can be reasonable planning security and measures to be taken to improve students and teachers at the university. Let us therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Let us do the same thing here that we have done in increasing the funding of studies! Let's work together. Let us focus on common goals! That is why I call on you not to allow this time to pass now, but to act and to implement and decide as soon as possible the funding of the study places within the meaning of the students, but also of the universities and all their teachers and professors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11846	Next, Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11867	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Vorarlberger middle school students are among the listeners, because it is an important topic and it concerns, among other things, their future and that we are fighting for it – and this is also clearly shown here – that it has more opportunities. There is fairness in the education system. And what we decide today is an essential contribution to this. As a Vorarlberg Member, I would like to point out – I have always done so when it came to abolishing the tuition fees – that young people who want to study are simply forced from a federal country where there is no university to go to a neighbouring country, so that they must go not only to a neighboring country, but to a neighbouring country and have increased expenditure to contend there. It is important to provide appropriate support in this area, and I would like to mention, because the figures have not yet been mentioned, also the figures for increasing the study aid for students who cannot live at home. There is an increase of €606 per month to €715, i.e. €7272 per year to €8,580, i.e. an annual plus of €1 308, which – I would like to stress – is particularly important for those who come from countries that do not have the opportunity to study. Because we are already on the subject of Vorarlberg and Education and what has been discussed widely here, you allow me to note that it is good, I always say, to have a little more on Members like Mr Däderle on the side of the ÖVP, who feel that it is also a matter of finding a solution and, if one is in the aim of actually fixing and closing it and not junctimizing it. It is almost unbearable to experience what I have experienced, and I have provided my role as an educational speaker for good reason, because I have experienced exactly what my colleague Grossmann is now experiencing and what Mr Walser is constantly experiencing, namely that we can negotiate things, fix them to the point, and then it says: No, we can't, because we've got a loop somewhere with us that we still had to pull, it's not quite there yet! I'm disappointed, and that's what I'm talking about: I am disappointed that just one colleague, Sieber or a president, no longer has any influence, so that Vorarlberg's head of state, the responsible Vorarlberg councillor, the Vorarlberger professors, teachers, parents who insist that we can finally make an attempt to prove that it would be a blessing for this school system to have a common school, which will also be possible. That's just willful, what's being done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Even if you see it from the other side and say: No, I am convinced that this does not bring us what we expect of it!, but what if we prevent it in a whole federal state – a federal country in which all the structures are for all the political groups of the countryside in order to be all the people who have to deal with education policy, from the educational college to the friendly university in Innsbruck, all for this system: Teachers, parents, political parties! – And you don’t open the door and you can also prevent an important project that we want to complete, namely the school autonomy package, the school package. That's incomprehensible! This is just blockade policy, and you have to be responsible if this decisive step cannot be taken in education policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11921	Mr Buchmayr is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11945	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The long-term valorization of the study aid by 18 percent is a long-standing step towards improving the social situation of students in Austria. Poverty is more widespread among students than one believes. Thus, according to the 2016 report on the social situation of students, the so-called financial depriving affects about a quarter of the students. Education nationals, students with children under seven years of age, self-maintenance grant students as well as students who started their studies between 26 and 30 years of age. Financial depriving means, for example, that unexpected repairs of approximately €450 are simply not manageable, until about 6 percent of students in winter cannot heat the apartment enough. This leads to 61 percent of all students already working, with 54 percent of the students working according to their own data having problems with the compatibility of work and studies, which in turn significantly prolongs the study period. The present valorization is thus a long-standing, correct step that helps to better link studies and necessary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11975	Mrs Hakel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e11996	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, listened to the discussion now and also discussed a bit with my colleague. One thing is clear: Just as universities are financed, there is no interest in students; nor does it have to, because we, politics, are responsible for ensuring that students, students can study undisturbed, because education is the most important thing we have. What is important for a student, for a student? – The fact that there are top universities is that you can study everything you want, and of course you can also afford to study. That is why good study grants are needed, and therefore I am very pleased that we are deciding today to decide unanimously that we will raise and improve the study grants and thus reach a larger number of students in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12024	Now, Minister of State Dr. Mahrer has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12045	Mr President. High house! I am trying to get a bit of a matter policy from the government bank into the debate. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As far as the various comments that have gone in our direction are concerned, one can easily depress them, and that is what you have to admit to me. Allow me a first word: They all know the National Strategy on the Social Dimension in Higher Education. Fortunately, the decision, which is likely to be taken in the House, is a contribution to a measure to improve the social situation of students. It is very gratifying that there is probably an all-party agreement here – I do not want to preface it. After all, we speak of about 25 percent more of the students who will receive support here. That's very pleasing. We have always said that this is a follow-up to the system changeover in the area of the financing of higher education. The work programme between the Social Democratic Party and the Austrian People's Party also ended in this way. I am very pleased that this will be decided here in the House. Of course, the second component in the debate must not be forgotten: This is a system in which more transparency, more quality orientation is involved and where, as a result, there is a much better relationship of support among students and a clearer financing structure for universities in the field of teaching, research and the entire strategic dimension, where infrastructure investment, as well as future issues such as digitization and other projects in the field of social dimension are concerned. Studienplatzfinanz is a model that has actually been intensively debated since 2008 and has been further developed across several ministerial responsibilities with the universities concerned. The existing model is very detailed with the universities discussed. As has rightly been said, a legislative proposal has only been in place for a short time, but the model in detail all know, it has also been discussed in detail with my mirror minister. [[Abg. Maurer: No, we don't know that! That's not true!]] We would of course be pleased and also believe that it is necessary to implement this component of financing structure New in conjunction with clear access restrictions in the mass subjects now in order to achieve a significant improvement at universities in the area of the framework conditions for students, but also for teachers. If one is already aware of the complexity of the debate by saying that the draft regulation is not yet ready, then of course one could draw analogies to the educational debate. As Mrs Maurer has said that there would be an agreement with the Greens, I have to deny that. It's a model proposal in the room, we didn't agree on anything at all – quite the contrary! [[Abg. Maurer: We have an agreement!]] The devil is there in detail, Mrs Maurer, you know very well, I have explicitly repeated this in the negotiating situation. By the way, this is a federal history. [[Abg. Maurer: This is handbeat quality!]] This is a federal state situation where every area we would agree on needs to be made a reference to the nine federal states, because they are all affected. In the school administration, then, in the sense of a new model, it should come to be a common authority on federal and country matters. The countries must always be involved in each of these questions. There are a number of points that are completely unknown to us, of which we do not yet know what is inside. For example, according to the existing legal situation, if this new model of autonomy and authority were to come, the Federal School Supervisory Act would be 31st. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No one here in the High House – even though we have been negotiating for two years – knows in any way how school supervision should work in detail! We trust that we will debate this together in the post-mortem. The Education Control Regulation does not exist: We don't know her, and she doesn't know anyone else. Nor does the Resource Control Regulation exist, nor does it know anyone else, and it must be developed. We also do not know the detailed design of how the education management is to work internally – it is not available and is only to be worked out. If you already say that you refer to a lack of regulation when it comes to the funding of study places – which can, of course, be formulated in detail without any problems afterwards! – then, if you put it on a scale, you would see: One is a little feather up there, and the other a huge weight down there! We are leaving... – Yes, Mrs Maurer, we have been negotiating this package with the countries for two years now, because we do not want an open-minded operation. [[Abg. Maurer: For two years we have been negotiating!]] We do not want to do anything we want to do about the students concerned, teachers, parents and staff in the school administration. This, Mr Mayer, was also said in the direction of Vorarlberg: We don't want to try exactly what you called it. We just don't want to get over with an attempt – a model is an attempt! It is now possible to make every attempt under the existing regulations. For us as a People's Party, it is important – and we have said this again and again in the negotiation – not to go over the people concerned, but to reach a common solution, otherwise they cannot contribute to this in the school system. [[Abg. Schieder: New People's Party!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mayer: What's this excuse?]] So let's do it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer]] If you want to do this... – Mr Mayer, you know the scientific report, Mr Walser has presented it again during the negotiations. [[Abg. Mayer: You're going across the countries!]] There are polls with large majority in them, we believe everything – but if these majority are so, why don't you co-operate with them after the existing regulation? Why do you want to decide this over the minds of those concerned? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because we need the teacher service right!]] Why do you want to decide this over the affected? We can only do this in a common sense, we have always said that we are happy to negotiate it. Now we come to the issue that we had set up some junkim... – No, with better knowledge it has been said this morning that we would junctimize something! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Resist better knowledge!]] In the APA I read today – I don't know who published it there – I wouldn't talk to Mrs. Hammerschmid. – That’s not true at all! I said two hours ago that I would report to her when I was finished on the government bank, but I can hardly sit on the government bank at the same time and talk to the Federal Minister. I'm going to do this immediately after that, so I don't see it at all, I'm going to sit down with her immediately afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] – This is what is said in the APA message, which has been so claimed. I'm just trying to clarify this claim. I am going to speak directly to the Federal Minister, but at the same time I have been informed that the SPÖ appears to support the funding of the study place with the educational reform. About an hour ago, it was said by the SPÖ: We will not talk to the ÖVP again about the funding of the study ground until we have completed the education process. – This is a strange vicious circle that is carried out on the back of the students, students and teachers. I think you have to reject that. We have now gone so many kilometres together for over two years, we are very close to the goal. My appeal to everyone is to go down the emotions again and together to go the last meters to the finish and walk over the finish line. This, of course, concerns the field of education, but also the area of funding and access restrictions. It is also easy to conclude what the Federal Chancellor himself has stated in Plan A, which we want to decide with him. He just has to say he wants this – we are at our disposal for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12216	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12237	Mr President. Mr Mahrer! To the Studienförderungsgesetz: Application 2171/A is intended to adapt the Studienförderungsgesetz to increased cost of living. Taking into account that an adjustment was made last year in 2008, an adjustment of approximately 18 percent is now justified, as both income from self-employed activity and the cost of daily needs showed increases in a similar scale. It is therefore necessary to distinguish according to the origin of the students, with benefits exclusively for Austrians, at least for EU citizens. With amendment of § 4 para. 1a Z 1 is to replace the word ‘children’ with ‘family members’. This amendment is to be rejected on the basis of the broad concept of family membership, with this term of the Contracting Parties the right to study funding would be almost limitless. It should also be taken into account that, after completing their studies, foreign students usually leave the country, so that both student funding and the cost of the study are borne by the taxpayer. In the run-up to this legislative change, it seems appropriate to provide students of foreign origin with a work obligation in Austria of several years or to provide aid in the form of partial or fully repayable loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12261	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12285	Mr President. Minister Mahrer! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz is to be amended and about 50 000 students are affected. Mrs Hakel, you said that funding would not be so important – I think the funding is of course important, but the students will be less interested, because you are right. In general, however, funding is an important point, Mrs Colleague. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The study aid is to be increased by 18 percent, with the maximum study allowance for students amounting to € 6 000 per year or € 500 per month, Mrs Colleague. For students who meet special social requirements, the funding is to be increased to € 715 per month and € 8 580 per year. The maximum study aid applies, for example, to orphans, married persons and so on, which is a very important point. The circle of stakeholders is being expanded, the innovation of this law has a positive impact on the social situation of many students, which is true. However, there are many things that need to be clarified, such as the limit of merit, as we have already heard today. This would be a very important measure for the students from the federal states – Mr Mayer von der SPÖ has already mentioned this – as far as the limit of merit is concerned. Unfortunately, this has not been taken into account in this innovation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12321	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12342	Mr President. Minister! High house! Let me take a brief look at education reform and the current state of affairs. Mr Mahrer, we agreed! [[Federal Minister Mahrer shakes his head in no way.]] Last Thursday at noon, it was clear to all of us that a proposal that came from your side, the Greens' consent, had been found by the SPÖ, and I assume that the present Members Jank also gave the consent of the ÖVP. This agreement stands, and the agreement was clear: We will be given a written legislative text on the same afternoon, which will bring this agreement into paper. Now I do not want to describe in detail the following hours, but it is clear that I did not come to this legislative text. Mr Mahrer, this text did not come because so many questions were open, nor did this text come because a federal agreement had yet to be reached – all these things have to be done either in the wake of those federal states, for example, who want to set up model regions, or they are, that is customary to regulate a decision following a law in the way of regulation. This is always the case, there are new regulations every year based on existing laws – but what the law has to say was clear to all three parties at the table, and there has been an agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's it!]] I am now very glad that you have made it clear here today that on the part of the ÖVP, on the part of your ministry, there is no junkimation with any other question, we are pleased. There have been misunderstandings in the last few hours and days, you have clarified this by APA today, you have just clarified it here in the House. This is a very, very good base to continue. Mr Minister, we ask you: If you sit with Mrs Hammerschmid, formulate this law as promised, present this law to us! The Greens will be involved as constructive force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] We have never performed total opposition, and a model region is not an open heart operation. This is well prepared in Vorarlberg, there are two thick volumes to prepare. If you are talking about an open heart operation, please drive to South Tyrol, where there is a common school: There is no experiment, there is no experiment on the back of children, any attempt is started – no! It is a model that gives all children in our society a chance and not just a few, and that is what we are about. We need such a school system and we are willing to extend this model to all of Austria. This is possible because of the preparations, but that is currently – you are right – the resistance of some countries. However, let us take those countries that are pioneers and in which all parties are in favour of us starting this attempt as an example! Let's do this together! All of us in the pre-election campaign would benefit from seeing everyone, because it is about bringing something forward, and then we would have the time up to 15. It's really useful on October. My appeal to you: Let's stay constructive! - We're ready for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12394	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12415	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Harald Walser, the positive at the beginning: I mean, there were good conversations between the government parties and the opposition. But it often happens – and this seems to be the case too – that you exchange well, but it only comes to details when you have to pour something into a law text. At least that's my perception. I was not present at every date, but I cannot confirm from my perception that we had reached an agreement and that the whole thing would only be a formal act. [[Abg. Steinhauser: There has been political agreement!]] As I said, this is my perception, and you have to admit that to me. [[Abg. Walser:... three hours!]] From my perception we were not at the point where we said: Thanks, everything done, wonderful, we can go home and don't have to put ourselves together anymore. [[Abg. Walser: Didn't we say we meet with the law text in the evening?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This is the situation, and I would also like to leave it because I believe that we have a great responsibility: the responsibility to implement this started project as well. [[Abg. Moser:... selective perception!]] We have a lot to do, too. Today, a junk animation was also mentioned: At the moment, however, it is the case that the ÖVP was set up as a junkim, namely by the SPÖ: In the area of student funding, no further discussion is made if the bag is not closed in the educational reform. I am always very pragmatic and try to keep things up and talk to each other in such a way that you can continue to negotiate. Now we can say that the match may be one to one at the moment, but we, and I mean both government groups, are well advised to continue negotiating – but with mutual consideration of the movements of the individual political groups. [[Abg. Arbitrators: junctimize!]] I mean, that's what we're doing, and there's a need to continue negotiating. You're not done yet, so that's our job. I also see my duty to say: Talks must continue; there is no end of the talks for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12514	The second time Mrs Magnette has spoken, Mr President. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12536	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I would like to thank all those who have spoken on the reform of education, first of all you, Minister of Education, Mahrer, for having clearly explained how complex such a reform is. So complex that even after two years of trial you still think you need more weeks of negotiation to clarify things, because the devil lies in detail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Just as you know, this is also the case with other materials, which are also complex, such as the study place financing. I would therefore like to thank you very much for the clearly expressed understanding that we do not want to bring this to Parliament in just a few days, but rather treat this matter just as serious – I do not say, two years, but a few weeks. - That's the first point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] The second point is: I don't think it's a very good style to say that once you say something different from the public behind the scenes. If you, Minister of State Mahrer, say to the public that there is no junkim, I hope that this will be the same behind the scenes! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] The step we have taken today, Mrs Jank, was to say: We're not being blackmailed. We want to talk, we want to negotiate serially, we want to move on – but we don't let ourselves say: You have to do something to allow us to negotiate for a two-thirds majority and implement important educational reform that we urgently need in schools. Let's not let ourselves be extorted. The junkim's gone from you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So please continue, but in a serious form. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not a junkim from your side?- Oh, my God!]] – It’s not a junkim, it’s the defense against your extortion attempt. That's a bad political style. Tell the public the same as behind the scenes!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12598	For a second time, Mr Mahrer, Minister of State, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12620	Mr President. High house! There is still a brief factual opinion from me so that I will not be misunderstood, Mrs Kuntzl. I did not say that I agree with you that the matter of funding for study places needs a particularly long debate, but exactly the opposite! It is a nine-page text that is known in the core content of the calculation model to all universities to which it is present as the law text. It is negotiated with the mirror minister, that is the Federal Minister for Education. Their employees have been negotiating in detail since March. She knows the text, has been holding technical voting talks with me in the middle of last week, not at the cabinet level, but with me personally – that is fact, you can't ignore it – so that, if you want to, you can make a decision in very good winds by the end of June. All universities know the law text. These are the facts. Of course you can negotiate about this, about the model, no question at all, but the point is: It's up there. If you want to, you can give the universities these possibilities, or you can stand down and say: I don't want it out of principle, but then you have to have the courage and say that. That's not a problem. In any case, the model is available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly point, which I would also like to highlight very objectively: It is about, once again, a federal agreement, Mr Walser. It is not true that the countries would not be affected by this, because even on questions of the model region or other issues, of course, in a common school – this is about compulsory schooling and the federal schooling – the countries affected by it, all nine federal states. So far we have needed so long, because we have, of course, voted with all the countries, and very constructively. Once again a praise to all the federal states at the administrative level, to the members of the National School Councils and to the Constitutional Service! It's an extremely complex matter. I would like to thank all of you once again for the fact that it has been very constructive, no matter what the Federal Republic of Germany. That's why it makes no sense to make a Hush-Push action on the last meters. It doesn't make any sense! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: Exactly!]] The third point I would like to address here is that I see the Members of the Freedom Party: We talked to both parties and we would also have liked to talk in detail to the Freedom Party, because certain points that the Freedom Party mentioned were very constructive in this debate. One takes only the point German before entering school, which is even made out in the Government Convention 2013 to 2018: On page 28, in the chapter Integration, it is clear that we should do more. That's what we need to do. The Freedom Party has demanded that we had no problem with this, and of course we would have - respectfully, as it did in a democracy, because we have two parties that could be partners for a two-thirds majority - would like to continue speaking. You can't always hide this either: In a democracy you have to talk to everyone. It is the commandment of the hour to speak to all at the last meters that one wants to deal with. That would have been said here again. I would like to thank the Freedom Party for the talks that have been held so far, because this has so far been lost in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12677	Mrs Kuntzl! They know that the accusation of a criminal act – and extortion is such, including the attempt of extortion – is incompatible with the dignity of this House and calls for order. Unfortunately, I have to give this to you for your statement. [[Abg. Moser: This is a fate!]] [[Abg. Krainer: So a political extortion is not a criminal act!]] Next, Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12727	Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to take note of these roses that you have spread to us. In fact, it is also true that we have had very constructive negotiations and have come very far with you, the ÖVP, but also together with the SPÖ over the last two months. But there are still two or three core demands or strong demands from us that would have been still to be overcome. One thing is, you have already mentioned the question of German requirements for regular education, and today I cordially invite you, the ÖVP, to accept our deadline proposal so that we can still decide on it this year, regardless of what happens to the educational reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The other is, of course, even worsened by the SPÖ, our clear no to the overall school model region. I have already said this this morning in the current hour: We liberals are opposed to carrying out any field trials on the students in Austria. That is why this is a point that we reject, while – and this is the essential point, I have to get into this kindergarten, which obviously exists between the government parties – you do not agree in the still-government SPÖ-ÖVP in which direction you want to go. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I already said it this morning: I understand the Greens, who obviously had a handshake of SPÖ and ÖVP on Thursday last week, and are then suddenly pushed to the long bank, although I am with you, Mr Minister. Of course, we do not have a white God like great hurry, but we actually have two or three months to negotiate in detail. I ask the still-government partners SPÖ and ÖVP to finally come to a green branch to know if you want to do it with the Greens, speak of the overall school model region, or whether you with us liberals there to a degree want to come. We are available for negotiations. Our conditions are known: German compulsory, No to the overall school model region, full transparency in the education directorates. Finally, a small tip to the ÖVP: You don't need to do any junk animation. Be honest, you really don't want the entire school model region, except for the Vorarlberger ÖVP. Be honest and stand by what you always say under your hand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12781	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12803	Mr President. Minister! Mr Mölzer, I must let you down: The position of the Freedom Party is not so crystal clear. I should like to remind you that despite a change of obscurity controlled by Vienna in the Vorarlberg Freedom Party and despite a clear statement by the new country party chairman Mr. Dr. Bösch, the Education Spokesman of the Freedom Party in the Vorarlberger Landtag, said in retrospect: We stand for this agreement model region common school. – Freedom Party, thank you very much. There are constructive forces with which one can also work. Mr Minister, I would also like to comment once again on your comments. You have said that this is a federal agreement. – No, it is about a federal law, namely a federal law that has the effect of allowing countries to conclude agreements, Article-15a agreements. It is about now, and this should be clear to everyone that no one will be forced on anything. No federal state is forced to do anything towards common school that it does not want. On the other hand, however, it is about the fact that federal states that do this can do the same. What we want and what we agreed on on Thursday for lunch is a law of permission. Everything else is prevention tactics. If we decide this law, if we get that text, then we'll be on 28 May. ==References== The Vorarlberger, who has been working on this project for two years, can finally take useful further steps. It's not possible now. We need this law, and I ask you to cooperate constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12839	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12860	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Harald Walser has correctly explained that there are two faces in a party, namely in the federal state of Vorarlberg another one than here. But there is a second party, which has two faces, namely the ÖVP, which appears in Vorarlberg as the great reform party and there at least pretends as if it would like the model region. Here I hear nothing from the two Vorarlberg members of the ÖVP National Council, who probably would have to carry the domestic line. Whatever you don't see is the supposedly new ÖVP, which now makes everything completely different and modern. It's the whole, very old ÖVP we've known for many years. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] If the new ÖVP were as modern and as open as the Minister and like that of the never present and unexplained leader of the party would like to signal, then it would have to make a model region possible! It's only once that it's about trying to see if it's going and how it works. But that's all conjunctiv, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12903	No one is reporting on this. The debate, in which only pro-redners took part, is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1655 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lintl, ladies and gentlemen, on the freedom of study aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lintl, colleagues, on proof of professional activity in respect of the adoption of the study contribution. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the request for a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:10:13]] 4. Point Report of the Tourism Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2016 (III-390/1652 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e12986	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13013	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Whoever has now followed the debate has seen that this government really does nothing more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] There is complete standstill and mutual blockade. It is really amazing – and thus to the positive – that the tourism industry has positive figures to say. It is all the more surprising in this chaos, which is in the hands of the government, and in this massive load package that has been passed on to the tourism industry in recent years. That is why, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate all companies and all employees in the tourism sector on their great success. Tourism is a bastion, the tourism industry is a backbone for Austria, for rural areas, for all of us, and for this, a great compliment is due to all entrepreneurs and all employees. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, every fifth job depends directly or indirectly on tourism, and we are honest: Without tourism, rural areas could not really exist. That is why we as a party are fully behind the tourism industry. I would also like to say positively that I am in principle satisfied with the terms of use and management in the Tourism Committee, as well as with you, Mr Minister, you have a very positive approach; however, we cannot all be satisfied with the outcome in the Tourism Committee at all. What has been happening in this legislative period is also not possible by means of a tourism report, an estimated colleague, Obernosterer. Yesterday we received the current annual report 2016 from Austria advertising. Mrs. Dr. Stolba is certainly a very careful formula, which I understand very well, but I can only quote one sentence from this tourism report, namely on her assessment of the framework conditions of the tourism industry – I quote: “Even if tourism is one of the growth sectors worldwide – the environment is becoming increasingly challenging: The international competition is growing and the operating level framework has not been easier in recent years.” – This is what Dr. Stolba writes, and you really have to give her. If I now hear that Foreign Minister Kurz, the new ÖVP Partyman, intends to make a discharge offensive of €14 billion over the next few years, I wonder: Why now? Why do you have to burden the tourism industry massively before? – There is a principle of unanimity in the government. The long-term member of the ÖVP in the government, Minister Kurz, has also fully agreed to the tax package in the past. Furthermore, a question in the direction of SPÖ: Have you decided to increase VAT from 10 per cent to 13 per cent alone? How was that? Did it not need a partner who is sitting on the right side here, namely the ÖVP, who has decided to do so? After all, this tax burden from 10 percent to 13 percent on the federal side has led to an additional income of € 250 million per year, with these € 250 million mainly not paying the guests, but the businesses themselves, because of course they cannot overwhelm this increase one to one on the guests. So that seems to me to be about like a fireman – and I appreciate the fire brigade – who says: First, I need to light a house so it burns lightly to prove how well I can erase. [[Abg. Wenninger: Punishment!]] Must the tourism industry be heavily burdened by a sales tax increase of 10 percent to 13 percent, by an extension of the depreciation period to incredible 40 years – that is limitable, beyond good and evil – and by a constantly increasing bureaucracy? There is nothing left to do with the trade regulations. Also to be mentioned are the Allergensverordnung, the Smoking Prohibition, as from 1. January 2018 will come, et cetera. It's really amazing! That's why our compliment on the tourism industry and its employees is all the bigger, because they have managed to balance so well and well, and that we have managed to remain the world's champions of tourism, and have again achieved a new record high this winter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to make a motion for a resolution for my party to give you today the opportunity to prove how seriously you really think it is with tax relief and with a reduction in fees and contributions. That's something we've been demanding for decades. We also want a maximum tax rate of 40 percent; yes, that is reasonable, that is right. Prove it here today by agreeing to our initiative! I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13088	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13224	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13246	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Mr Hauser, we now have the 2016 tourism report ahead of us. As an entrepreneur, I'm used to looking down first at a report or balance sheet and finding out: Is that positive or negative now? The question of the holding is always the same: Has money been left at the end of the year or not? This is how I look at the 2016 tourism report. We all know about the difficult conditions, we can address them in detail later on, what needs to be improved – no question, we always need to improve, especially tourism, which is in international competition. What do the countries in the tax field, in the regulations, in the conditions, do they do in the liberalisation of working time? – In all these points, we very much need action to remain competitive. Nevertheless, Austrian tourism has succeeded in having a successful year even in 2016. It is not the responsibility of politics to attribute whether it is a plus or a minus. Whatever is made economically, the companies are always responsible for whether a profit or loss is written. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian tourism industry can be seen internationally. Mr Hauser, we were last week with all the leaders of the political groups in Germany, where we looked at what is available for the German advertising and for the Austrian advertising and what the VAT rate looks like. The small guesthouses in the country pay thank God for 10 percent VAT for the food, in Germany they pay 20 percent VAT. VAT on accommodation rose from 10 per cent to 13 per cent. This has not been my agreement, we all know that the industry has not done well; in Germany this has been halved. And now individual cities are going here and by the way, they are still levying a tourist tax so that they can make up for it. When we count the accommodation area and the food area together, we know that the average rate of VAT is even lower and not higher than our German partner; nevertheless, we have to do something. When we write down, we have to do something, we know. It's very important: Tourism is not to be compared with industry, it is a service industry. We need to be more liberal. Each of you is a guest, and none of us always go to dinner at 12 o'clock or 7 o'clock in the evening. Everyone makes a holiday, and when we go to an inn or a hotel, we would like to have our amenities if we just have our leisure time. This is clear with the employees; I know what I'm talking about, we have a tourism company and a restaurant ourselves. The employees are determined otherwise they would not work in tourism. We need to be more liberal. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's what you decided!]] One point is that we have had a successful year. We have written a plus of over 4 percent, and for the first time exceeded the brand of 140 million nights. We have 2.6% more employees in tourism; we have increasing numbers of employees every year. We have an increase in sales in tourism across Austria. And especially for businesses it is quite, very important that the term of debt has been reduced. That's important. We know that we are currently in a low interest rate phase. We must shape the framework conditions for the future of tourism in such a way that, if interest increases once again, this will not be a major burden for these companies. We know that we need a debureaucratisation that is sometimes even more important to tourism than to pay a little less taxes there and there. We know this challenge, and that the EIA is for tax reduction and not for tax increase, I don't think I need to say to the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Congratulations!]] [[Abg. Loacker: 30 years you have had time to do so!]] I know what the Freedom Party did at the tourist tax in Carinthia. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Under a financial officer of the Freedom Party, tourism taxes in Carinthia have been increased by 100 percent and have not been reduced. Have a little time with the story! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13324	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13351	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Obernosterer, you probably don't believe that with the tax reduction, or have you not been in the government now? [[Abg. Hauser: I guess the SPÖ did it all by itself!]] I've already mentioned today that we're in the international ranking on 109. The office has the bureaucratic requirements and the tax burden. And you stand here and say, We stand for tax reduction! So I have to tell you one thing... – No, the Taferl is coming; you don't need to be afraid, Gabriel, that's coming. [[Abg. Obernoster: You've set up a false Taferl!]] I can give thanks and recognition to all tourism companies, but also to their employees, who are at the forefront, because I believe that this interaction is absolutely necessary for this successful tourism report that we have available. There are, however, many improvements to be made, but Mr Hauser has already mentioned some of them. The crucial thing is that in the committees – and then we still have a meeting of an application – we get away from this policy of postponement. It would be important for citizens to know what good ideas the opposition parties have in the committees. That's what it always says: Yes, this is an important issue and an important issue, and we are at all events discussing, but I am making a request for a postponement! - That's the problem. I do not want to present all the eleven points that we have postponed. If I just think that it is not even possible to allow for increased cooperation between agricultural and tourism schools: This would be very important for mutual appreciation. It is about the knowledge that the local products on the one hand maintain the cultural landscape and, on the other hand, the local cuisine is guaranteed what is known in the tourism schools. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Or the quality partnership for the gastronomy – postponed. It's not going to work, it's hurting practice. Dear Gabriel Obernosterer, you know the difference! You know the conversations in the committees, you know the conversations, the discussions here in the plenary, and you know the conversations when we sit with the people of the ÖHV when the practitioners are there. I compare this with the agricultural discussions. The practitioners don't understand us anymore. The practitioners ask: Yeah, what are you talking about in there? What's going on in Parliament? – And that is exactly the problem of politics! People are not politicists, they are politicists, and I think that's exactly the main problem. I now come to an essential point which I have presented in detail in the Committee, dear Gabriel – and that is exactly the subject! –: Where is the partnership of tourism and agriculture? Everyone is talking about rural areas; we have just had Mother Earth's action. - Wonderful! I am grateful to the ORF and the “Kronen Zeitung” for that. But here we also need to look at the facts, the reality: If today the tourism sector buys, when the hotel industry buys, there are at least twelve wholesale suppliers, twelve international wholesale suppliers; one of them has now advertised in the newspaper that it comes to the smallest valley of Austria with its 130 heavy trucks. Only: What he has on the trucks has nothing to do with Austria, and that, dear friends, is reality. It is not only about international delivery, the delivery of Argentine and Brazilian meat, Danish, Dutch and Polish pigs, but also about the slaughter in Austria. I'm not gonna leave it because it's not possible. Now is election campaign – I have already said this in committee – now we are talking about the facts, not about how it should be, not about how it is praised, because everyone has domestic quality and buys everything only in the vicinity of 30 kilometres – but just at the international wholesaler. [[On the table standing before him on the speaker's desk:]] This is a slaughterhouse very close to President Auer, leased by a Styrian group. In this slaughterhouse more than half of Slovak cows are slaughtered; they are delivered. The workers' cars in this house have Polish, Hungarian and Czech marks. And now the highlight is: Then the slaughterhouse in the slaughterhouse is stamped by the classic of the Chamber of Agriculture Upper Austria, which is paid by the forced members' contributions of the farmers, and it stamps on this Slovak beef AT. And because everything is so difficult anyway and because the label fits anyway and then is the right picker on every meat, I have allowed myself to take a picture of the meat boxes. [[The speaker turned the table.]] As a musician I would say: ad libitum. You can choose what's inside, because so many pickerl are on it that's always the right thing inside. And then the Austrian sausage always comes out, always with the right AT sign and with the red and white-red sign. This cannot be in line with Austrian quality tourism, ladies and gentlemen! We want to offer our local guests, we want to offer our international guests what we advertise in the brochure: juicy meadows, happy cattle, the healing world, good air, super water quality – and that's what we want on the plate. That must be the goal! Austria can be a pioneer – Europe-wide and worldwide. This is a huge chance for Austrian tourism, which is a huge chance for local agriculture, which is a huge chance for local processing companies. This is about thousands of domestic jobs, and it is about thousands of citizens who do not need a car to get out, because they can work locally, which are not separated from the families, because they do not have to spend their time on the way to work. - A huge chance, let's take it! I shall therefore put forward the following four motions for resolutions, in the near future; the first is a very great initiative by Fritz Jeitler, introduced here in the Committee on Petitions: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second resolution – and this is a crucial issue: taxation with taxes – concerns palm oil and palm fat tax. That's very crucial. We substitute healthy domestic fats. Unfortunately, Mr Vogl is not in the house, but he believes that there is only palm and coconut fat. - No, we're here in the Alpine region! We have permanent pastures; a cow has an acre of permanent pasture, and it produces the most valuable milk, the most valuable butter and the most valuable hit-up, and there is no need for substitutes from the rainforest. I therefore propose that: Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues on palm oil and palm fat tax The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to present a proposal for a law which provides for the introduction of a palm oil and palm fat tax, with revenue intended for domestic agriculture and for the protection of domestic and foreign guests." Third point: Labelling by AT stamp – because that's where it happens! If someone says it's about the ability to enjoy, I have to say, No, no, no, I can demand from an Austrian classification that it stamp the correct national identification on meat from Slovak cows, from Hungarian cows or from Czech or Dutch pigs and not AT. This is very important in order to prevent fraud from happening in the first place. Therefore, the third request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues on ‘Marketing of meat by AT stamp’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary measures to ensure that only quality meat of Austrian origin – speaking (fresh) meat of farmed animals born in Austria, grown up in Austria and slaughtered/certified/packed in Austria – is provided with the AT stamp. In the case of animals born and raised abroad but slaughtered in Austria, the health status should be certified with a stamp of the country of origin.” The last point – a slightly longer request – is: The introduction of a quality seal law would actually solve many of the problems we are constantly discussing here. Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, Members of Parliament, on the quality seal law The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited, in agreement with the bodies relevant in the present case, to submit to the National Council a draft law which is appropriate to enable the introduction of a legally binding, uniform Austrian quality seal for all foods produced in Austria.’ I would ask for our citizens' consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13454	The motions for resolutions quoted are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The four applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Application for compensation by Mr Steinbichler, Members of Parliament, on the quality seal law introduced in the course of the discussion on TOP 4: Report of the Tourism Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2016 (III-390/1652 d.b.) at the National Council meeting of 07. June 2017 In the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2016, you can read on page 40: “Holidays in Austria are inseparably linked to the typical Austrian hospitality and regional cuisine. While pure culinary travellers are still rare, only around 3% of all summer guests expressly claim to make a wine or culinary holiday in Austria, as an additional offer, culinary influences the choice of destinations.’ The valuable Austrian agricultural sector produces high-quality food. The tourists want high quality on the plate. In order to ensure the required quality and make it comprehensible, it takes uniform, high standards. This could ensure a quality seal. For years, the implementation and legal liability of a uniform seal of quality for food labelling has been discussed in Austria. In Austria, food production and trade are characterised by a variety of markings, prints, seal of quality, bio-seals and other non-conformly regulated labels. Consumers see themselves delivered to a labelling inflation that creates confusion and uncertainty instead of guidance on the safe purchase of food. Processors and end-users cannot be 100% sure from where they actually came from, how and where they were processed and under what conditions the growing or. the cultivation has been carried out. The Austria-cursing labels are not comparable and therefore do not have a say for consumers about the actual quality and fair price of the products offered. In addition to the AMA seal, more than 100 additional "marks" and trademarks are on the market, which degradate the AMA seal to a non-binding seal. From a consumer point of view, however, the AMA seal does not allow for a real quality comparison, since only a smaller part of the foods offered in Austria follow the AMA guidelines. The Minister of Agriculture is also aware of this: "In Austria, there is currently only the AMA seal and the AMA biomark in the field of food labelling, as well as the signs BOS, SUS and OVUM, which are legally relevant. All other engagements on food are pure word-pictures that do not make a legally binding statement of goodness. There is no instrument by which AMA could prevent the use of other word-images. The award of false information must be assessed in accordance with patent or criminal law." (108/AB XXV. GP [Steinbichler to Berlakovich, BA by Rupprechter]) Furthermore, the current handling of the AMA seal cannot guarantee security for the 100% Austrian origin of the food supplied with it. A uniform, binding label for all foodstuffs offered in Austria must therefore finally be implemented. According to the Green Report, the number of holdings participating in the AMA seal is declining. By 2011 the AMA guidelines were adopted by 48,599 companies, and in 2013, the number of participating companies fell by 2,299 to 46,300. (Green Report 2014 [Table section]) According to the website www.amainfo.at, the number has dropped further. "Approximately 43,000 agricultural producers participate in the individual programmes, including some 33,000 dairy farmers, 5,000 cattle farmers, 1,800 pig farmers, 700 laying hens, 400 mastendl and Puten holders, 1,500 fruit, vegetable and cartofs. Good producers. Approximately 700 licensees distinguish their products with the AMA seal.’ (http://amainfo.at/ama-seal/ama-guete-seal/) The recording of AMA seal operations usually results in multiple acquisitions, which means that the absolute number of participating establishments is actually lower. In total, according to Statistics Austria, there were 166,317 agricultural and forestry holdings in 2013 as measured by this figure, the proportion of holdings participating in the AMA seal is then only once at 25.9%. In the past, there have already been several attempts to move the Federal Government towards a uniform, legally binding labelling of food. In November 2009, there was a five-party application for a reform of the quality mark regulation. At the time, the representatives of all the parties represented in Parliament called for the implementation of the reform of the quality mark regulation agreed in the 2010 government programme between SPÖ and ÖVP. The current government programme states in the Health Chapter that "the implementation of a clear designation of origin of products and raw materials at EU level Consumers should provide reliable and secure information as well as protection against deception" (Work Programme of the Austrian Federal Government 2013 – 2018, p. 59). Unfortunately, despite all efforts and attempts, the real designation of origin for food cannot still be mentioned. Globalisation and industrialisation of food production lead to a "traveling" of food for consumers no longer comprehensible. For, to a large extent, food already has several thousand kilometers behind it before being offered for sale in the Austrian supermarkets. With fruit and vegetables it is still easy to see that for example bananas from Colombia, grapes from Turkey, pineapples from Costa Rica, Clementines from Spain, Kiwis from New Zealand, Mangos from Brazil or Papayas from Thailand have seen more of the world than those who buy and eat them. With meat products it becomes more difficult because the least consumers know that lamb from New Zealand, beef from Brazil and Argentina, shrimps and poultry from China or fish (Pangasius) from the Mekong Delta after thousands of kilometres of travel. as freezers in Austria's supermarkets. Even the ready-made baking mixes for the supposed fresh goods from the supermarket oven include, for the most part, raw materials that do not come from Austria. And there are also negative examples in everyday life as potatoes. In spring a renowned Austrian supermarket chain offered local potatoes from Egypt, although at that time with the variety "Eferdinger Landl" there were sufficient domestic potatoes of the highest quality. Such procedures lead to the fact that domestic goods cannot be offered competitively and will be destroyed. Foreign goods are despite thousands of climate-damaging transport kilometres and lack of environmental standards as well as questionable production methods (child labour, etc.) to have cheaper in Austria than domestic quality production on site. The Austrian consumers are well aware of the extent to which climate damage and social suffering are caused by the supply of such products. Such examples could continue for all areas of food production. We therefore need a legally binding regulation which guarantees that Austria is also in there on all the food offered, where Austria is on it. It must end with products that may be considered "Austrian", although only slaughter or slaughter. packaging is carried out in Austria. Austria needs a transparent quality seal law for all foods offered in Austria, the origin, type of production, processing, transport and storage to ensure fair comparison of quality and price for consumers. Only in this way can Austrian consumers be guaranteed food truth. The honourable Members therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: Application for compensation The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited, in agreement with the bodies relevant in the present case, to submit to the National Council a draft law which is appropriate to enable the introduction of a legally binding, uniform Austrian quality seal for all foods produced in Austria.’
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13825	Mr Mag. Unterrainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13843	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! The mountains, the good air, the sound of music, the kindness of people – Austria has a lot to offer, and tourism is the best ambassador of Austria around the world. Our tourism is the living brand Austria. Our image, our nation Branding is influenced and dependent on the leisure and cultural economy. Nature conservation and tourism are not a contradiction, but a symbiosis. Our nature is the motivation number one for people coming to us, but it also belongs to the white mountain summit. And that's actually one of our biggest problems: What do we do if the snow just melts down? Donald Trump has his very own approaches: Like a defiant child, he closes his eyes to reality. Of course, one can leave the climate agreement, but not from climate warming. Even the millionth snow cannon does not make any winter. So let's ask ourselves, What does winter tourism look like with little or no snow? – Today we are obliged to deal with the morning: What is tourism like in 10, 20 or 30 years? The good numbers of tourism, as we have heard from my previous speakers today, are really very good, but they can't hide that we have problems above all in rural areas, and I therefore have been pleading for a long, long time for a combination of rural tourism and local agriculture. What we need is not an island solution, but we need a comprehensive tourism package, and I believe that this includes a completely new organisation of the marketing of Austria. The Austrian advertising works great, we have excellent people there and also many regional players, but we will only be able to play in the Champions League if we want to call it so, if we have the best players in the field also in a team. It makes no sense for the Austrian regions to try to overcome each other and to recruit guests, but they should simply complement each other. The know-how of tourism product development is also coordinated to strengthen the regions and their specialties and to be able to develop the Austrian tourist brand together even more closely. It makes no sense for us, for example, to have nine different regulations regarding camping, nine different provisions on youth protection and so on and so on. We need to see that we bring these overregulations away as best we can and have uniform, clear and simple structures, not only for us, but above all for our guests. We need, and that's really my concern, my own tourism ministry. The industry, its importance and its needs are so unique and enormously important for Austria. The workers, the workers, the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the Austrian leisure industry are indeed creating great things, but they are also rightly calling for an independent and therefore strong political representation. In my opinion, this should also have a so-called nation branding agency place. Above all, we also need a stronger scientific discussion of tourism, as we will deal with Share Economy, with Airbnb, how we can further anchor sustainability, how we have to deal with climate warming and increased international competition, how we should be set up in the future. And we need a quality offensive regarding work in tourism. It is clear to us that we need to make the work in tourism more attractive, the framework conditions must be more friendly. I want every woman, every man, every family to have a babysitting home. What we need is a working time model in which workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs can be profiters. In particular, the social partners are also called for. There are already some initial approaches, some of which have already been brought to paper. In conclusion: Family businesses in Austria are the strong support and hanging-out sign of our hospitality; they have to be promoted much more, especially in the case of acquisitions within the family. That's where it's going to be, or we'll lose a huge potential. As good as we are today, we need these reforms very urgently. We also need to change things, with one goal: that tourism remains what it is, one of the strongest economic factors in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13880	Mr Brückl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13901	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen of this House! The present tourism report is very detailed in some areas. The main key figures can be found in this report, even topics such as private rental or holidays at the farm are dedicated to space. Other areas, in turn, are particularly those that might have a negative impact on the assessment of the government's work, which is not presented in this way and is still excluded. For example, the 2017 tourism year is in the sign of Austria-Russia tourism, and in the whole report there is a short paragraph on this subject. In this context, and this is confirmed by the naked figures also in the It is true that the number of persons employed in this field has been massively broken down. It is also this federal government's task to counter it accordingly, especially by re-establishing Austria's advertising. The budget of Austria's advertising, and this is one thing that we have been criticizing over and over again for years, has not been valorized for 15 years. There is sometimes a special budget, but there is just too little happening there, and the government is investing far too little in this area. Dear People's Party, you so gladly copy our requests, please accept our demands. – It would be desirable if this request were also accepted by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For years Red-Black has burdened our tourism companies in this country. It has already been mentioned today: Registrations, Allergensverordnung, Smoking Prohibition, Renewal of Depreciation. In the future, the extension of the depreciation period will ensure that building investment in the hotel industry, in the tourism sector, in the gastronomy sector does not appear realistic, and this also has a dramatic impact. For example, you can read in the 2013 report on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry: ‘As a result, missing investments could lead to a loss of competitiveness and market share losses.’ It is therefore also important that we support tourism companies so that they do not fall behind in this sector. That was also mentioned. It is tourism that plays such an important and powerful role in Austria, because it is simply one of the very big economic factors. And the withdrawal of the extension of the period of use of tax law, which is now 40 years old, would be an important, indispensable step in the right direction. In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, I would like to ask for the support of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e13977	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14060	Mr Willi. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14081	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about this report, and in fact tourism is a very important sector for Austria, especially for rural areas. Austria is a holiday country. This is gratifying because 41.5 million guests come to us in Austria. There are 141 million nights in 1.3 million guest beds. We're a little world power on vacation. The crucial point for me, however, is: How are the people working in tourism? – On the one hand, there are the entrepreneurs, the hostess, the hoteliers who run such businesses: Do they have air, can they make sales and profits?, and on the other hand: How are those who, as cooks and cooks, stand in the kitchen as washers serving as waiters, facing the guests, the maids, all those who work as employees in tourism? This group is the business card of Austria to the outside. When guests come to us and then return to their countries, tell them about Austria, and there is the crucial point: How are the people working in tourism on it? Do they radiate something? Are you a good business card for Austria? – This is linked to framework conditions, on the one hand, to the business environment, on the other hand to workers in tourism. In the report itself, the retired vice chancellor proudly says that the framework conditions for tourism have improved. It refers to two points: It is true that the cooperation of family members in the operation was facilitated, yes, and the power of booking platforms was restricted a little – beautiful. We have reached this out of the opposition, says Mr Schellhorn with headpins. [[Abg. Obernosterer: All the opposition,...!]] Right. But let's be honest: The whole thing is beautiful coloring! If you are thinking about tax reform and how tax reform has increased the burden on tourism as much as possible, that is what Mitterlehner writes. I remember the increase in sales tax on nights by 3 per cent, I remember the extension of write-down periods, and we have an orgiastic bureaucracy: The register security regulation alone is 16 unreadable or barely readable pages. We kill our people with things like that. That's not how it goes! A crucial point can be found on page 29. On page 29 is a very simple table showing developments from the year 2000. Nights and sales are compared. In these 17 years the nights were fourteen times in the plus, only three times in the minus. Turnovers had a plus nine times, but eight times a minute, and only five times in these 17 years the revenues increased more than the nights. This means that the air for economics and working in tourism has become less. – These are your framework conditions made by the ÖVP. If I were a tourist, what Mr Foreign Minister said now would sound like a dangerous threat. It announces tax relief, tax reductions of €12 billion. Either social benefits, health benefits and pension benefits are reduced, or counter-financing is needed. What counter-financing means from the point of view of tourism, we experienced in 2016, the tourists were the fools, they paid for it. We don't want that, our green concept is: Down the VAT on accommodation, shorten write-off periods, reduce bureaucracy, end unfair competition with Airbnb for example, massively expand summer tourism by pooling all forces and increase year-round employment in tourism – there is a very good model of my colleague Birgit Treasure. The tourists and the people working there need air to breathe, and we need to give them that. However, if 13 out of 14 initiatives are postponed in the Tourism Committee, this is a sign that the ÖVP does not want to air in the tourism sector. With three motions for resolutions which I am now presenting, I am starting a small attempt to change this a little. First request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Second request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Georg Willi, colleagues, on the implementation of the overdue valorization of the Federal contribution to Austria's advertising The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government and, in particular, the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics are invited to send a draft law to the National Council, which provides for the increase in the annual Federal Government's annual contribution to Austria advertising, which has been unchanged for 15 years, at least to the extent of a valorization of inflation since then." Third request: motion for a resolution by Mrs Georg Willi, colleagues on the security and valorization of federal funds for alpine huts and roads The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, as well as the Federal Minister for Finance, are called upon to ensure, immediately, a continuation of the federal funding for the Alpine huts and paths for the years from 2018 onwards, of at least EUR 4 million per year." I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14149	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14286	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14309	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think one could easily characterise tourism in Austria by saying: Tourism in Austria must be a leader; it must be possible for those who here in this beautiful country to be able to relax, and it must be possible for those who are responsible for having tourism companies. This is exactly where the dog is buried, in that the additional wage costs for our employees have become so high that we can no longer manage to pay adequate wages on the one hand for this good and hard work, which is necessary – so that more net of the gross remains – and on the other hand, to manage positively as a business. At this point, a note on the statements made by Mr Steinhauser, who meant today that an administrative reform would be repeated again and again, although it is hardly the most important: I believe that even for tourism, an administrative reform is essential, namely that a slim state – and only a slim state – is able to ensure that the additional wage costs are reduced, in a relationship that benefits both workers and employers. This can only happen if, in all areas, from the municipalities to the countries to the federal government, economics is managed sparingly. To do this, you have to adapt to the dimensions of the best. An example is the way in which hostes are treated in connection with the Allergensverordnung today by being held responsible for the consumer's failure to do anything. This in principle only promotes the gastronomy that works with convenience products, the large gastronomy or those who can cover themselves in a factory with food where everything in it is the same. But if you cook independently, I look at how to create a new menu every day and yet in a responsible way for the allergens that may be included. I highly criticize this responsibility, because on the other hand, there is the example of vaccination in school. If today in schools are vaccinated and vaccinations occur, allergies on vaccines, whatever happens, a doctor is not held responsible, then the countries jump in to compensate for the damage that can be as blatant as damage due to allergens following the allergen regulation in the host houses. – The host is not responsible for knowing what someone is allowed to eat. I think that's a guest's fault. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has also angered me particularly is this inconceivable aid scheme. We have an 18-day aid scheme that is now so complicated that no one is dealing with it – even the taxpayers – because it is simply not practical. I think we need a check-out, which at the same time includes taxes for the State and, on the other hand, is a complete final tax for those who carry out the aid. Another thing: In the gastronomy there are also the fidelity fees in the full-time establishments on the payments paid. Trusts amount to a monthly salary for ten years, for 15 years a month and a half, for 25 years two monthly salaries, for 35 years two and a half monthly salaries, and for 40 years three monthly salaries, which together makes up another ten monthly salaries. I Grant my longtime employees these fidelity payments, but I want to be able to earn this money. Finally, one more thing: Gastronomy and hotel industry are the sign of the entire tourism industry in Austria. Any government is responsible for remaining a hanging sign as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14367	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14388	Mr President. Estimated Minister! To my previous speaker, Mr Klinger, I would just like to say that the Allergensverordnung is, in any case, only a matter for the authorities, so that they can carnify entrepreneurs relatively well. It is no longer because the citizens are powerful enough to know what they are allowed to eat and what they are not. That's why it's also a subject. I should like to join my colleague, Mr Obernoster, who said that we should be more liberal: I believe that you must only become more honest, because since 11 050 days you have been in the government, and most of it – or all the time – you have also occupied the chair of the Minister of Economic Affairs. To become more liberal would you all have had in your hands. This is also true of colleagues who are also from the government group and who say that it is necessary to simplify it. – Yes, you would have had the chances! I do not want to hear mutual debt allocations again, I believe that what is urgently needed is also a point of honesty. I do not understand the Minister who said he wanted to look at this 30 percent increase in the tax on Logis, which is 13 percent – from 10 percent to 13 percent – until 2018. What do I have to look at? Whether even more taxes come in, or whether it is not enough, what has been promised to tourists in recent years? What else do you want to see? – I want to know, and I want to know what you are going to do to tourists. You say: You, we have to look at this until 2018, then we may decide if we can take back the tax increase!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Obernosterer, you have seen exactly how it worked in Germany. If you say, there are the cities to introduce contributions: Yes, they don't have this tourist tax until now, as we have it. They lead it to the same level. They introduce a third level, i.e. the local tax or the taxation of tourist-related establishments in the cities, but they have a level less than we do. In order to ensure this overall work of art – the word that we always shape and thank God now also the Minister of Economic Affairs, with which he is right, because it is an overall work of art – it takes five measures. The first measure is, of course, the tax measure. That is, we need a functional depreciation period and not the extension of the amortisation period to 40 years. When companies invest, this is the employment engine in the valleys and regions where the craftsmen benefit from investment in companies. We need the reduction of sales tax from 13 percent to 10 percent again. Above all, we need structural reform, because we have 30 000 guest beds too much. It not only helps the positive tourism balance of a record, it's always costing times. As Mr Willi said: We had nine times, if I remember it correctly, not increases in sales, but only increases in nights. That's a fatal sign, but we have to do something about it. We must make it easier for those companies that are thus moving away, through fiscal measures, older businesses that simply push down prices. In most cases, these individual companies can only close their operations by bankruptcy and otherwise no longer at all. You know that! Most have a book value that is below what you deserve. It is therefore very important to introduce fiscal measures here too. And if it is a complete work of art and is a cross-sectional matter, it also needs special arrangements. What we still need – that is the second point – are new working worlds; even if it is the word of digitization. We need working worlds that are there for the leisure society that wants to be served. That means that we also need childcare places for those workers who want to work on the weekend but cannot, because there are no such places. We need flexibilizations of the way that we also believe in the 21st century. ==References== Here is simply digitization versus service, here we stand for a leisure society that also wants to be served and served. We also need a common approach – that is the third point – that agriculture is talking about, that of rural development. We need a total work of art. We need this overall work of art, that we look at it as a whole, starting from a whole and saying: We live on this cultural landscape, we also live by this agriculture, which contributes enormously to our having a beautiful landscape, but we should also market it together. That's a jumping point. Let us think of it together, and think it, dear government bank, not separately, just because it is about grains, about alliances that want to be protected! What we still need is debureaucratisation – that is the fourth point. What has happened in the last three years – I experience it in my own company – is simply a government madness, a controlitis that has prevailed and that makes it no longer easy for companies. They take the pleasure with them. Debureaucratize at last! Do it and don't yell about it, you've been sitting on the government bank for 11 050 days! [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] What we need is a concerted application. We have five levels of tourist application, from the hotel to the community, the tourism association, the national tourism organisation up to the ÖW. Do something in this respect! Look, you finally make this federal law so that it needs two levels less – then we have more resources – and do in the second step of one: Valorize the ÖW budget! This is urgently necessary, for: Whoever does not advertise dies! Going there we can't rest and say we're doing a little bit of clientele policy: maybe this year a focus on cycling, maybe next year – because the Thiem just won – a little bit with tennis. That doesn't make any sense. It's just client policy. I imagine you taking the power to sit down with the Minister for Agriculture or the future Minister for Agriculture, who knows what is coming, saying: We need a development of rural areas, we need a habitat where we can live. Then I'll write to you on the mirror, Mr. Minister: The nocturnal records were based solely on growth in the cities and not on holiday tourism. You have to do something about it. It does not help to say with individual emphasis: We can't see that we're fattening up the EW budget, and we can't do anything else. I imagine tourism differently. Tourism, as you say, is an overall work of art, of which not only tourists and hoteliers live, but also the carpenter, the installer, of which lives everyone who is somehow anchored in the regions. [[Abg. Katzian: In city tourism too!]] We should never forget what is based on tourism, which is an enormously high value added in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14433	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14454	Mr President. Federal Minister! One thing I agree with all the previous speakers on this subject complex: We have recognized the importance of tourism to the economy in Austria, and we have also recognised that it is our duty to keep an eye on and develop the framework conditions for tourism accordingly. Mr Schellhorn has just mentioned that there are declines in vacations and urban tourism is on the rise. That is true, and this is a development that we have to observe lately and which we must also oppose. Nevertheless, the Austrian tourism industry has been very specialized in short holidays. You can see this on the numerous specially tailored offers in ski resorts, but also on thermal holidays and the urban tourism that trees. What's that all about? – That we simply have a good infrastructure, the goals are very planned in the short term and you are there relatively fast, especially when you are on the road. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the point that is going to be raised, and I would like to focus very briefly on the latest political attacks by Brussels. It is completely counter-productive when EU transport Commissioner Bulc comes along and says that Austria has to assume that the toll of Vignette must be changed to a toll by 2027. Ladies and gentlemen! I am talking about attacks because this is simply an attack on the middle class as well as on the tourism industry. If we are stopped by the European Union by 2027 to introduce a kilometre-related toll, this will of course be argued with the omnipresent void of the necessary CO2 savings. I would like to know what is behind that – except for pure waste disposal. We do not know how e-mobility will develop until 2027, nor do we know how much CO2 it can reduce. We do not know whether, or to what extent, there are prospects that the combustion engines will be developed in such a way that they can be massively saved on CO2. That means that this is primarily a matter of cashing off. I would just like to give a brief example of who the main victims of this mile-related road toll really are. These are mainly rural people, who are once again disadvantaged. Furthermore, it is families who may want to take a short break or go on vacation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, it's the pendlers. Experts have now calculated that in Austria a kilometre-related road toll – i.e. a motorway toll – does not make sense under 5 cents per kilometer. If you now charge this to an average donor who – let's say now – is 50 to 60 kilometres a day, then this is about €1,700, which this donor has to spend more in the year. So you take him away for a month. I think we actually agree that this cannot be the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] By the way, I am there – because now some calls come from the SPÖ – in good company with the ARBÖ. I think he's part of your wing. [[towards SPÖ]] Similarly, the ÖAMTC has predicted from your wing that it can only be a matter of decassing and not of saving CO2. [[towards ÖVP]] Mr Matznetter, your Minister for Transport has also voted against it and has said that he wants to fight against it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, we liberals have thought that we will support you in your fight against these injustices from the European Union. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The play of free forces is open. We want to help you work. I therefore assume that you can also agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14548	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14630	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14651	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, one of us is sure: Austria's tourism companies are world-class. I believe that when we talk about world class, we can now send a greeting and congratulations to Paris – sport and tourism are closely connected – where Dominic Thiem has just shot "joković" with 3 to 0 sets from the stadium. [[General condolences.]] Thus, Dominic Thiem is also a good ambassador for the Austrian tourism industry – not to mention the sporting performance. Therefore, once again: Very warm congratulation! [[New general appeal.]] Austria's tourism is excellent, the figures speak a clear language. We have recorded a record value among guests and nights and we have achieved a plus compared to the previous year, which is of course very pleasing. Nevertheless, there are great challenges that we also need to face. On the one hand, there is a great need for working time flexibility, so that we can work when the work takes place, especially when the guests are there. [[Abg. Matznetter: We can do that now!]] This is a very big challenge. I hope that the social partners will be able to reach 30 years of age. In this respect, a good solution will also help the employees and the companies in this regard. Secondly, we still need action in cases where we have already developed certain solutions. For example, in the emergency system we see – it has already been tailor-made today – there are still bureaucratic obstacles. In this case, we should see that we remove these obstacles with practitioners in order to make the whole thing liveable and feasible for our tourists. I believe that we all want to do the same thing together, namely to make the work as easy as possible to the touristists, the hostess and the hoteliers. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the essential points of this report is, of course, the markets. Austria's advertising is doing excellent work. We see that due to the geopolitical situation we have a guest boom from the traditional markets. Austria is still considered to be a very safe country, and that means that in this respect we also have great hopes for the new year 2017. 31 percent of Germans think about making vacations in Austria. When they all come, I think we can also look at the year 2017 in a hopeful way. But we need further measures. On the one hand – and there all parties agreed – we have facilitated family cooperation in the operation. That was a very essential measure. On the other hand, we have worked to abolish the best price clause. This is also a very important signal. But, as I said, we need further relief offensives. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we – all six parties – had a very constructive round on the trade order. I'm loading You are quite welcome to join this new commercial law. This novelle includes an extension of the additional rights for the hotel industry up to 30 percent, a new regulation of by-laws for massages, an extension of the additional rights for the hotel industry for certain package offers, a relaxation of the mandatory pre-arrangement of block-hours and a safeguard of quality tourism and of skilled staff growth by maintaining the qualifications. You can also prove that you support us here. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14700	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14721	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to say to tourism: Austria's economy is decisively influenced by tourism. Were territorially different in recent years and influenced by growth in gastronomy, stagnation is now leading to a fall in sales. The reasons for this should be described as different. However, it is striking that numerous medium-sized gastronomy companies are closed for tax policy reasons as well as for acute lack of personnel. In times of a continuing economic crisis, increasing tourism can only be achieved through low-cost services and services. In this context, it should be pointed out that competing neighbouring areas are significantly favoured by tax, so that it is hardly possible for local tourism to offer cheaper. Especially in the XXV. The legislative period was affected by unenforceable tax burdens on local tourism. Registers' regulation, drastic extension of depreciation periods and excessive bureaucracy are to be identified as the cause of numerous closures. In the example of the Registers Regulation, the expected revenue of approximately €900 000 with approximately €200 000 is far below expectations. In its entirety, tourism is subject to additional burdens such as beautifications, tourism charges and high additional wage costs. The reverse effect, less is more, seems quite applicable, both in terms of turnover and tax revenue. If the Federal Government is talking about necessary deregulation, this applies in a comprehensive way to tourism, it is therefore necessary. With regard to the assessment of the Minister of Economic Affairs, according to which local tourism has to be reinvented, this will not be possible in terms of topography alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14754	Mr Plessl. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14776	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the parasols! Today we are discussing the report of the Federal Minister on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2016. Some of my previous speakers have already reported that it was a very successful season. 41.5 million people have made vacations in Austria, 141 million stays have been recorded – an increase of 4.2 million. There are other positive points, such as sales in tourism, which have increased nominally by 4, but actually by 1.7 percent. And we also have an increase in the gastronomy of the self-employed to 208,000. These are many positive signals. In addition, investment in tourism has increased from € 143 million to € 221 million. Ladies and gentlemen! It also shows changes in tourism. I would like to explain briefly what I understand about it and what figures show that: in 1990 guests made a six-day holiday in a row, in 2016 it's only three days left. That proves that there is a clear change. The positive thing about it is that vacation is often made. Most of the nights – with international guests – book Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourgers with more than five nights. The higher qualification of hotels is worth mentioning. Considering the years 1991 to 2016 – i.e. 25 years – the demand for 1 and 2 star operations has fallen from 33.5 to 12.1 percent. At the other end of the scale, in the top segment, demand has increased from 30 to over 56 percent. That means that people want significantly better quality. However, many investments are necessary. Thank you to the entrepreneurs who create and support these facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to address the framework conditions. Many factors play clearly together and explain why people come to Austria. Sports challenges are an important point, but there are also financial obstacles. Of course, there are incentives in this area, for example by the Ministry of Social Affairs. This promotes the active integration of 42 000 people into the labour market. Another important point is the inclusion of women and older people. Of course, we are not at the end, but there are always framework conditions that we can change. In the area of tourism and leisure activities, the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank is also mentioned, which makes important contributions to the support of tourism. I would like to address another point: tourism in Lower Austria. We are also successful and have a strong rise. The last winter season was the best winter season in the history of Lower Austria, which is very positive for our federal state. Cooperation and coordination with strong partners are also very important. I would like to give an example: Schloss Hof in my district of Gänserndorf, which has been very close for several years with the castle Schönbrunn Kultur- und Betriebsges.m.b.H. co-operating. There you can see how professionals can make some progress. A few years ago, we addressed some 100,000 visitors, we are now close to 250 000 visitors, and this year it could become even more - up to 300 000 are forecast. In the previous year there was the Franz-Joseph exhibition, this year there is the Maria-Theresia exhibition at four locations in Vienna and in Lower Austria. Please, visit the exhibition! It also makes a valuable contribution to our history. Finally, I would like to thank you for Mag. Dr. Franz Sattlecker, who soon became the managing director of the Schönbrunn castle Kultur- und Betriebsges.m.b.H. in retirement. He is a committed person who always sees that we are bringing our region forward. It was a good decision to bring that together at the time. In this sense I wish that many people visit Austria and spend money here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14845	Mr Mahrer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14866	Mr President. High house! I would like to say a few basic points on development that are appropriate in the presentation of the 2016 tourism report. I have already carried this out in the Tourism Committee and shared my thoughts with the Members of the Committee. My thanks at the beginning are to the touristists, who actually did and did excellent performances under difficult conditions – also in 2016. However, the difficult framework conditions are to be precisely analysed and a little wider. If you look at this in detail, you can see that there is a difficult situation due to the problem of resources, climate change, the changing mobility and use behaviour of citizens on holiday and leisure, as well as the overall effects of digitalisation. This is, of course, a big mix situation that you have to look at here. Regardless of individual smaller tax policy and administrative issues, all issues of bureaucracy are involved, but they can always be seen in the overall context. That is why I always say that it is an overall work of art if tourism can deliver excellent achievements. If I look at this in detail now and try to find out on the basis of the report 2016, where the chances and where the risks are, then a few points come up very nicely. Parliamentary Schellhorn has said that we know that in recent years one of our strengths in urban tourism has been that there has been a great deal of positive development; but in 2016, we note for the first time a trend change: In the more densely populated area of the cities and where we have a lot of beds, for the first time the number of nights has fallen, compared to the increase we have in the not so densely populated area. This means that for the first time the region outside was the area where we had more affections than in the urban area. Now you could ask if this is surprising. I'd say you have to look at if there really is a turnaround. That's to be illuminated in detail. So it is not grounded in stone that there is still such a trend where shorter city holidays have developed positively in recent years. There's a break. This means, of course, that it is really the question of how we should shape these framework conditions for the next few years. What will be the central driver we believe will have significant influence? Correct: You have to apply for regions. Correct: The Republic must be applied as a brand in total. Of course, it is also true that particularly in the area of application, very much is changed by the effect of digitization. We have decided that we must work together on the issue of digitalisation. We will therefore invite all the Members of the House who are interested to discuss together. It is clear that especially in the area of tourism, we also need to devote ourselves to digitization, just as all other sectors are on the test and are required in this regard. We will be able to make a lot of things very low – especially for those who have not yet worked on it. Those who have already gone a long way in the field of innovation may want to do more, want to have framework conditions within which they can make more. The whole issue of the data economy will be of central importance here. How can our tourists and leisure providers successfully access and use the potential that opens up to us and, in this sense, further develop Austria as a very positive tourist location? The numbers have already been mentioned. We have already reached the limit set for 2018 – the 140 million nights – by the end of 2016. However, as I always say, nurturing figures alone are not a positive indicator, but must always be seen in terms of economic development in conjunction with the willingness to invest, the investment rate and the investment volume. Some Members have already mentioned it: It is nice that only the quota of eligible loans in this area increased by 54 percent in 2016. Even better, there is a continuing trend in this regard. Considering the first quarter of 2017 compared to 2016, the investment volume has also increased by 20 percent. So you see a very positive trend. There are then a few principles that we have set up in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection over the years. We want more internationalization to stand on a safe second stand. This must not be forgotten in the face of all the advantages that Austrian tourism can achieve due to the difficult geopolitical situation. Of course, we have seen geopolitically at the margins of Europe just a threat, so people prefer to spend their holidays at home, stay in Austria. In the context of the internal European context, of course, guests from our main target markets, Germany or Holland, are happy to come to Austria and are now making vacation here – perhaps even better than one or two years ago. Nevertheless, we need this second stand and we must continue to work on the remote markets intensively. These are, of course, the Asian markets in particular and have been the Russian market for a long time. There is also a turnaround again, as more guests from Russia came from January to April. We have an increase of more than 11 percent, which is very, very pleasing. In principle, you have to say, of course – and that is where I plead for free tourism, for a self-determined tourism: It is always a question of whether one wants to manage tourism stately or whether one prefers to make himself regionally. Our model follows a clear approach: We do not want a state tourism administration in which everything is predetermined, but of course we want a very strong region with a lot of freedom, which can determine for itself what its USP looks like in this changed world. We want to be an active partner for this, we want as a ministry with the respective national tourism organisations and the Austrian advertising act in partnership. In no way do we want to explain to the region how it should design and develop its tourist offer. This is the case of the region and the entrepreneurs on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14930	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14951	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's about the tourism report. The whole economy lives from tourism. Austria is a very popular holiday country. That's good, and that's how it's supposed to stay. Tourism is an employment engine for Austria, not only in cities with urban tourism, which also enhances statistics; tourism is also a very important factor in strengthening rural areas. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, nobody understands – but really nobody! – why the loads are getting bigger and bigger. Even if you say, dear Peter Haubner, Austria is a world champion: I think you're playing on Dominic Thiem, yes, warm congratulations, but Austria is of course also world champion as far as the burden on tourism companies is concerned. The increase in the tax on the nights is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, which is urgently reduced again! The extension in the case of depreciation, the Allergensverordnung, the introduction of the register obligation, the prohibition on smoking: All these are enormous burdens for the hotel industry, for the gastronomy, for our tourism companies. The host, the host can work day and night, but nothing remains. Yes, it is true – I think Mr Obernosterer has referred to it – that: Our tourism companies, the hotel industry, the gastronomy provide great things. The staff there is great, but the facts show: It is also true that these burdens will not continue to be bearable in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e14991	Mr Mag. Hanger is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15013	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate the 2016 tourism report. Personally, I believe that this requires a differentiated view of things. Let us look at the facts, which is indeed impressive, no question at all: 141 million nights, in turn a new record; 41.5 million guests; Turnovers 4 percent nominal, 1.7 percent real grew; 2.6% of employees' growth; more than 200 000 employees on average in the tourism sector. Investments have also increased particularly strongly. I think that is the strongest indicator. If businesses invest, they believe in the future. This is very encouraging, but it is also quite clear: We need to work on the framework conditions. Two things It should be noted that the regulation concerning family members and, of course, that we have managed to reduce the market power of the booking platforms by means of a legal regulation. I would like to address a subject that is very, very important to me personally, and I would like to say a little from practice. The issue of aid is very practical: An operator of a country gasthof says on the weekend, on Saturday: I want to do an event because I want to boost my business. – In addition to many others – advertising, music and, and, of course, he also needs staff. He organizes six people from his environment who are willing to help. In practice, this works in such a way that it usually cancels two shortly before that. He's organizing two new ones. Then comes the first great obstacle: He's got to register for social insurance. How does he do that on Saturday? – This goes on the Internet, with a high red tape. The staff will be there. In practice, it often looks like the business is not the same as everyone expected. Two aids will be sent home after four hours. He then has to bill two employees with four hours, pay aliquot special payments, pay holiday replacements. This is a huge amount of red tape. In practice, it seems that it is sometimes difficult to obtain aid, because if they work several times as aid, they are afraid that they will have to pay additional taxes because there is an annual calculation. They are afraid that they will have to pay social security contributions in addition because there is a post-measurement. I would like to see very clear, simple rules. They must look so that, of course, the income that the employee receives is taxed at the end. It must be clear that social security contributions are already paid. I am very convinced that it will then become easier again, even in the gastronomy, in tourism, to get the aid it needs to bring good quality to the market. Finally, I would like to make an invitation. I'm from Mostviertel, Eisenstraße, from Ybbstal. We will open shortly, 17th. June, the most beautiful cycle path in Central Europe, the Ybbstalradweg. All are cordially invited! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15064	Mr Antoni has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15085	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A warm greeting to God to all those who follow the meeting at the gallery, and a warm greeting to God to my home region, to all the forest four-members, because I would like to focus on this region in this discussion today. In the report on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry 2016, which we are discussing today, my home region, the forest district, is a little too little present to me. The figures show that there is a need for recovery in sub-areas, I think, especially in the area of private accommodation providers. I do not want to say that mass tourism must necessarily be the immediate, declared goal, but I think the labour market situation in the forest district shows very clearly that every additional job, especially through tourism, is a Winning for the region, a profit for the people is. And I think there are great opportunities and opportunities for this region in the area of private room rental. I think this region really has a lot to offer: from the abundance of the national parks to the cheese making world to the Waldviertler ponds, the educational potential of the Nature Park Centre UnterWasserReich, the only Baumhaus Lodge in Austria, the Waldviertler Schmalpurbahnen and not to forget the Hotel Sole-Felsen-Bad, which in the meantime houses a total of 300,000 visitors a year. These are many good examples that show that the region has been well positioned in the meantime with attractive attractions all year round. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the region lies, I believe, not only in my heart, but the region is actually in the heart of Europe and has great potential in the area of tourism, with major cities such as Vienna, Linz, Budweis or Prague nearby. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying at home in the Waldviertel: A Waldviertler is three people. – And with the saying, I think, we want to signal: The Waldviertlers, the Waldviertlers are used to working hard. They are really very interested in invigorating the region, which has been very successful in many sub-areas. I think that as far as the framework is concerned, we are in demand in politics. In order to create appropriate framework conditions, politics is needed at several levels, in several areas, because – we are all convinced – tourism itself is a cross-sectional matter. Support and approaches begin with the economy, ranging from health to training. That's why I think: The policy must focus on the need to ensure that what is offered in rural areas is accessible to tourists in the future. This will only work in cooperation. We should work on this so that, in particular, rural regions and, as today, private room tenants have a perspective and the tourist regions have an optimal chance for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15137	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15158	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2016 is, in principle, very positive. I'm allowed to talk about holidays at the farm. In total, almost 10,000 farms offer farm holidays. These are about 11 percent of the Austrian bedding offer, and about a quarter of these farms have been jointly organized since 1991 under the roof brand holiday at the farm. What's this about? – Of course, it is about representing interests and improving quality, as well as promoting programmes, for example in the context of rural development. Holiday-am-farm farms accommodate approximately 2 million guests in Austria, one quarter of which is about 500 000, children. These 2 million guests spend approximately € 1 billion each year, and these revenues also cover some 23,000 jobs. Holiday on the farm is really a big challenge for the rural families, and for this it takes a lot of heart and, of course, a lot of commitment. Holiday-am-farm guests get to know the work and life in agriculture more closely, they see how the work in the agricultural farms actually takes place. My impression is that especially in the public media, for example in television advertising, life and work in agriculture are completely misrepresented. In fact, it doesn't work like a farmer in the dirndl dress is in the haywork or the farmer rides with the Drescher in the suit or can speak the Schweinderl in the stable. These are all things that do not fit, and it is not surprising that children in urban schools believe that a cow is actually purple. There's a lot of work to do, and I'm glad that something is moving in this direction. Austria is not least because the farmers maintain the cultural landscape, because landscape is created by work and not left to nature, such an attractive holiday country. Of course, one important aspect is that guests from the farm holiday get to know Austrian food and are therefore also ambassadors, which also has economic advantages. Agriculture is a rural economy. The rural families invest their money in the regional economy again, and so, of course, holidays at the farm for these rural families are an essential factor in the added value. The holiday-am-farm farms and also the other tourism companies work together economically well, need each other, and that is quite valuable. Finally, I would simply like to thank all the rural families for their work, namely that they offer holidays at the farm, and wish all the guests of holidays at the farm a nice, relaxing stay in our beautiful home.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15203	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15225	Mr President. Minister! High house! The current 2016 tourism report shows very impressively the fundamental importance of national but also international tourism. Just as in Austria tourism brings jobs, value added and thus prosperity to rural, often remote regions, international tourism is also one of the most important opportunities in disadvantaged regions of the earth, economic developments and thus livelihoods for many millions of people. In addition to the positive aspects already mentioned several times in this report for Austrian tourism, the report also says that tourism has developed extremely positively internationally. For example, Asia and the Pacific have a plus of 8.4 percent. Also in Africa, a region that really needs a lot of input, a plus of 8.1 percent is recorded. North, Central and South America, including the Caribbean, have recorded an increase of 4.3 percent. The decline in tourism by 4.1 percent in the Middle East is without question due to the lavish situation in this region. On the basis of arrivals and real tourism exports, international tourism has grown significantly more strongly than world trade. In the longer term, this overhang is still significantly larger at 6.5 percent to 2.6 percent. However, these figures, ladies and gentlemen, also show how great the competition is, and that is why Sebastian Kurz's statement is to push the tax rate below 40 percent, absolutely right, yes necessary and will also bring our local tourism companies the necessary scope and the relief they need. [[Abg. Scherak: In 30 years!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: If that takes 30 years...!]] We're behind it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15277	The next speaker is Mr Juryenschlager. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15299	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The 2016 tourism report shows an extremely positive development, and it is good that tourism has developed forward in Austria. We see, however, that when we look at the figures more precisely, we are not making quite such a big leap, especially in the area of price-adjusted sales. A development, an upward development, can also be seen there, but the question arises: If the number of nights increases, but the price-adjusted sales are not to the same extent, where is the error? – And that’s where you have to try to get into quality tourism, which enables us to achieve high-quality value creation. Tourism is a service industry and requires the highest flexibility, as one needs to develop so that these working worlds can also be reflected in the legal rules, in the regulations, so that we can have safety for entrepreneurs, but also for workers. But he's not just that, he's a multi-part matter. What about tourism? – The security of a country, the cleanliness of a country, the cuisine, the culture of the people – I think of numerous voluntary initiatives, celebrations and the like, which take place very often in the summer in Austria – is also an essential factor in this area: How can one be reached by plane, what are the infrastructure connections, what does the rail do, and what does the road look like? All these factors need to be taken into account, and we need to learn to constantly re-examine these multiple stabilisation factors for tourism, to put these tourist glasses on other topics, for example, when it comes to spatial planning. We can mogulate about whether it is necessary to install a snow cannon there or there due to climate change, but this is a light discussion. If I look at what we're looking at in many parts of the country, then it's probably far more serious. Partnership development will also be essential in the field of digitalisation so that we can move forward. Equally important is the topic of income combinations: that in rural regions, which may not be so labour-intensive, it is possible to create perfect employment opportunities through income-combination models for people with multiple occupations. Some ladies and gentlemen have said that it is an economic need to reduce VAT – which has only been increased with the tax reform – also in the area of tourism; since I also ask the estimated rulers of the opposition in the federal states, where they are represented in the state government, to prepare applications now, whether one can reduce the incomes there or there – ultimately the benefits that come from the federal government to the countries. The discussion can not only be one-sided and complain that there is a tax reduction on the one hand, but on the other hand, requests to get more money out of the tax pot, which is a solution that is not so easy to make. You have to look at it a little more carefully in the overall view. I believe that it will also be possible to develop truly viable solutions for businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15347	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Tourism to take note of this report III-390 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the withdrawal of the increase in VAT on accommodation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Faire food has great importance for local cuisine'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steinbichler, colleagues on palm oil and palm fat tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Marketing of meat by AT stamp'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steinbichler, colleagues on the quality seal law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brückl, fellow Members, on the creation of additional investment. stimulate tourism businesses through the introduction of the AFA to the economic lifetime. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Willi, ladies and gentlemen, on the withdrawal of the tax increase on nights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Willi, colleagues, on the implementation of the overdue valorization of the Federal contribution to Austria's advertising. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Willi, colleagues, on the protection and valorization of federal funds for alpine huts and roads. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, ladies and gentlemen, concerning no introduction of a km-dependent car toll in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:41:47]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on motions for resolutions 1808/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Franz Kirchgatterer, colleagues concerning IS, systematic mass murder of religious and ethnic minorities (1649 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15554	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Buchmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15582	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The circumstances under which people in Syria have to live are simply unbearable. I therefore support the motion for a resolution out of deep conviction and unrestricted conviction. The question that focuses on this issue for me is: How could it get so far, from where does IS have the weapons and the means to terrorise entire states and to change the world as we know them permanently? This question is not easy to answer, but I would like to highlight the issue of arms and arms supplies. The largest arms exporters are the USA, Russia, China, France and Germany, the largest arms importers are India, Saudi Arabia, China and the United Arab Emirates. As we noted a few weeks ago, the President of the United States has been bragging about having a arms deal with Saudi Arabia by $342 billion. This leads immediately to the question of how the weapons actually come to Syria. It can only be speculated about this, but it is no secret that many ways through Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar support the US-led coalition against terror with arms supplies to increase its influence in this region. Above all, US arms supplies through the Saudi Arabia detour lead to an extension of the conflict in Syria and thus to inhumane living conditions. Europe is directly affected and has the consequences in the transferred sense. The movements of refugees from Syria and Afghanistan have led to massive problems in many European countries. What is missing is the humanitarian aid of co-polluters, and there are the United States and Russia to be sure that there is no such thing as caring about the consequences of the problem. I would like to see, especially in the case of arms suppliers, to this extent that, in the event of such an impact, as we are currently experiencing, the major arms suppliers are also held responsible at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15618	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15642	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, the systematic mass murder committed by the IS militias of ethnic and religious minorities is more than known to us, and we have been accompanied by reporting on it for years. Not only people in states such as Syria or Iraq are heavily affected, but now the IS terror has also reached Europe; today, for example, there have been attacks in Iran. In the Middle East crisis areas, Christians, Jesides and Turkmen, as well as other minorities, are particularly affected. People are captured, killed, tortured, women and girls are raped, enslaved or sold. For these reasons, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution calling on the UN Security Council to regard these crimes as genocide, and I think the competent bodies have unfortunately had more than enough opportunity to collect and document enough evidence and facts. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There must be no freedom of punishment for these cruel crimes against humanity and for these war crimes. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] The ISIS officials should and must be brought to the International Criminal Court. We therefore support the efforts of the European Parliament with our motion for a resolution and thus increase the pressure on the UN to take action. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the US Congress and, for example, the House of Commons in Great Britain have already done so. However, our request goes even further. With our request we would also like to remind you once again – Mr Buchmayr has already mentioned this – that no Weapons may be delivered to the IS and there must be no financial support from, for example, oil trading with the IS. We also note, of course, that the destruction of religious and cultural sites and trade in cultural goods are to be disregarded. This part is also important, but moves in the background in view of the many human tragedies. The following is also very important to me personally: We urge the Federal Government once again to work at all levels to build and set up protection zones and humanitarian corridors, which the United Nations will then ensure. I am, of course, aware that this is not quite easy, that this requirement cannot easily be implemented in order to provide security to those who are fleeing from the IS-Terrorist, it is essential to strengthen these efforts. It cannot be that only the neighbouring states of Syria and Iraq have to take care of the refugees or, for example, the Kurdish people, who are very committed to the refugees. They cannot be left alone with this task; we all have to make a contribution so that people can find safety and good care as close as possible to their home countries. This is also in our sense, that is also in the sense of Europe, because when people are well accommodated and provided in the vicinity, they no longer have a reason to get on the road to us. Finally, I would like to thank all the colleagues of the other groups for their cross-border support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15707	Mr Mag. Kumpitsch is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15728	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! High house! It is an open secret – Mr Buchmayr mentioned it earlier – that the so-called Islamic State, even though its war luck is now falling, continues to support and is also supplied with weapons. The result is that this war continues and Europe is being covered with terrorist attacks. I am thinking now of London, which is to say that we now know that two of the suspects have been known to the British intelligence service. One of them was seen in a documentary series called “The Jihadists of Near Side. ” If you still know that one of the perpetrators last year in Bologna was prevented by the Italian authorities on the next flight to Istanbul, because he said he wanted to be a terrorist in Syria and there, then the question arises why the British authorities did not do anything, even though they had been informed by the Italian colleagues, and this one is even in a terrorist file. All of this, of course, leads to a total failure of the authorities, but I would like to say that the cause of the inactivity of authorities is often not the will not to intervene or to watch without action, but simply the lack of legal requirements, similar to those of us in Austria. If the British Prime Minister today says that she will do everything she can to give the security forces more freedom of action, then that is good, but this insight comes with plenty of lateness in view of the dead who have so far been through the IS grievances. The fact is that all these perpetrators are united in a common religion, namely Islam, and especially hatred against us, our society, our way of life and their aim of destroying us, enslaving us or subverting us where we are not yet. Therefore, the duty of the hour is to act and less to support a request by the European Parliament, which was unanimously decided over a year ago, that we call on a federal government which is de facto no longer, perhaps never really given right, to provide support. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, radical structures of political Islam have been able to establish and establish themselves in peace and stability for decades in the past – we must say – under the protection of ÖVP and SPÖ, and so far today we have three groups in Austria. I only call the Arab Muslim Brotherhood, the Turkish Milli Görüş and the Turkish ATIB, very close to each other ideologically, a similar political Islam, and it is quite clear that such organizations are first preparing the ground for the tip of the iceberg, as they are jihadists, as they are the perpetrators, because only there can they spread their destructive and humane teachings. In view of these alarming circumstances and the urgent need for action, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really mean it seriously with the fight against political Islam, then vote Please submit this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15832	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e15990	Mrs Mag. Korun, I'd have to interrupt you at 3:00. I can ask you: Is that all right? - That's not going to work out. [[Abg. Korun shakes his head.]] Then I'll interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16024	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:23]] Short debates on deadline applications
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16056	The first brief debate concerns the request by Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz, the Committee on Education to report on the motion for a resolution 1445/A(E) on the withdrawal of party policy from the school administration for a period of 20 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Strolz, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as a first speaker in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have a speaking time of 10 minutes, all other participants in the debate will be available for 5 minutes. Please, Mr Dr. Strolz.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16087	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! There has already been a lot of discussion on education today, and we would like to highlight the subject once again, because today is a point of compaction and, unfortunately, a tragic highlight of the educational debate that has blocked and paralysed this country for many years and decades. Today, we have experienced that the no longer existing coalition and then still interconnected and interconnected parties SPÖ and ÖVP in the two educational fields of school reform and study site funding, i.e. reform and further development of universities, are mutually blocking each other. They don't give each other anything of unworthiness, they don't give each other anything of ideological affection, they don't give each other any embarrassment. The bill will, of course, pay the young people at the universities. If the solutions do not come, they will continue to sit on the ground, in Austria as many as in no other country on this continent. Nowhere are so many young people sitting on the ground at the universities. This is unworthy and the result of bad policy. We also look into schools and know that of the 15-year-olds 23, 24 percent cannot read properly, meaningfully, we know that this is a very tragic statistics, but not only on paper, but in real life. We know that these young people have very big problems, for a lifetime, they have a fixed prospect of being permanent customers of the labour market service, and otherwise there is little resistance in their lives, in their perspective. As ÖVP and SPÖ persist in their ongoing struggle, they also persist in their conviction: Education policy is power policy! We heard that it was on 17 May. November 2015 after months of negotiation there was a scoretion, in which it was then said that the educational reform would be implemented by June 2016. – We know: June 2016 is over, and the solutions have not come. We currently have June 2017, and there is an educational reform package on the table that is totally unsatisfactory because – and this is my main criticism in this speech – nothing can be seen about the withdrawal of party policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear young people, who listen to us here at the gallery! We must imagine that SPÖ and ÖVP want this, and I hope that FPÖ and Greens will not give their consent, That's a real craziest for green and blue, whether they're falling over there. There is a law on the table that provides for the so-called school administration to be abolished with the national school councils and a so-called education management is used. It has been argued over years about how this education management looked, because red and black could not agree, because it is precisely education policy that is power policy. In other words, they want to continue to maintain access to and access to schools in power policy, so that they can help to control who, for example, will become director/director of schools. The question: Are you going to be a school director or not? In most of the federal states in Austria, it is still not decided along the answer to the question: What can you do, what do you want for school?, but along the question: Which party book do you have? In order to remain this way, ÖVP and SPÖ have agreed in this package – I fear the Greens would go along with it – that the so-called Education Directorate should come under political leadership, just as the head of state, the head of state, would invent this. That means: In future, according to the proposal of these two former power parties, the Landeskuptmann/Hauptfrau can say: I'm the head/chefin of the education department! And one thing is clear: If the heads of state continue to become heads of education, they stand in the classroom, and they do not stand there with the schoolbook, but they stand there with the party book; that must be clear to all of us. You stand for more decades with the party book in the classroom – not with the schoolbook! [[The speaker holds a red A-4 paper with the title “Parteibuch SPÖ” and a black A-4 paper with the title “Parteibuch ÖVP” in height.]] I ask the young people: You got anything from the party book? - No, you didn't! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's why I'm of the opinion: We need to get rid of these party books. They have to ratzfatz out, the red, black party books, which we have to tear and banish from the classrooms. [[tearing the two A-4 sheets]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rasinger.]] – Mr Rasinger! What I want is that in schools such books are found: “We’re talking to you! Politics and Economy for Young People.” [[The speaker keeps the above-mentioned book up to date.]] “We talk to!” in school classes, not the motto for national leaders, but the motto for young people. You've confused this for years and decades. Now I need to report a little bit of the second Republic, brand: Power cartel Red-Black. They could not agree on how the education management is ordered. So the head of state can become the president of this education management. And the question is: How do we determine the director under the president? – The Director is then subordinated to both the Minister and the Head of State and can, of course, be completely mistaken between the two gentlemen and the party policy guidelines. That's why the heads of state have prevailed and said: If the Ministry of Applied Sciences and the Head of State are unable to agree, the appointment of the Head of State will decide on the next twelve months of the head of state interimly, temporarily. If they still have not agreed, the state captain can extend by another six months. In the negotiations, I would like to ask the question: And what after the 18 months? They say: Yeah, we don't need that, we're going to agree! Why will they agree? – Once again, the red and black power cartel reveals itself, because they just tick, and we have to leave with that. You then have 18 months for a so-called exchange material! That is, one or the other side begins to search: What could we exchange against a party-political occupation of the Education Directorate? Here are the abstract ideas: There are twelve pictures somewhere in a Federal Museum, which we want now in our Landesmuseum. And then it says: I exchange twelve images against a party-political occupation of the school management, or I exchange the state police commander with the country-education director. - Such exchange transactions! So the two tick, and that's why they need 18 months to negotiate such exchange matrices. At present, they are no longer even able to produce such lazy cow trade and exchange matrices. At the moment, they do not do anything at all, and I believe that if they no longer change this educational reform, it has also failed that it will no longer go over the edge. There I am with Harald Walser and the Greens: Harald Walser, we had this deadline debate along the request we had together on 25 May. Introduced in November 2015: We want the withdrawal of party politics from the school administration, signed by Harald Walser and Matthias Strolz; we are both of the same opinion. I'll call you again: This educational reform, with the education management in this form, must not be over the edge! Harald Walser, there are of you already from 7th. January 2016 downward over one and a half years of interviews, then in the standard, in which you say: There are two criteria, on the one hand, that the educational directorates should not come in this way, on the other, the plea for the model regions, which I know is that there is a very authentic need and a search tension so that we can finally achieve a successful redesign. I would ask you not to let these conditions fall under the table. This would be a betrayal of the students, the parents and the future of the education system. We must take a very serious look at this. I can't. Last word to the ÖVP: It's incredible how their education policy is doing. It's incredible, you're not getting the air. Of course, there is not only an ÖVP, there is always at least six different ÖVPs under the new ÖVP agency on education. There is a residual fraction, which is still relatively open up, then there is a political group that doesn't care, then there is a political group that is committed, in particular, to the teachers' union – it means possession-keeping and chairing, somehow, and power-political access – then there are the heads of state who distribute footbands to all kinds of subjects, no matter what they are called – and the result is that very old politics comes out, no matter how the new name, the new lists, the new color look out. In all these considerations, the students were never at the centre and in the focus, but it is also about power policy. If it wasn't for the purpose, but for the purpose of shaking these party-political shackles for schools and allowing real autonomy – addressed to Brigitte Jank as an educational speaker, also to Harald Mahrer, who has been negotiating there, also to Sebastian Kurz as the new ÖVP-Obmann – if you really wanted to prove the independence and sub-political passion for education, then first of all you would have to change this passage in the law and, secondly, find a reasonable tone and a reasonable attitude in the finale of these negotiations. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I miss that bitterly, and that's why I mean: This is ancient politics in new hoses.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16223	The next item is Mrs Grossmann's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16244	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, your obsolete schoolbooks will soon have to be packed in the age of digitization. And I have already seen in your contribution to the debate what this deadline request is all about. In reality, it's a match NEOS against greens. Because the Greens have shown themselves very cooperative in the negotiations, they are supposed to be presented in some way. [[Abg. Strolz keeps the A-4 leaves torn up during his speech.]] – This is the formal thing, but it’s obviously about showing the greens somehow; however. On some points I give you quite the following: The current system of school administration is a interweaving that has grown for many decades, spanning the communities, the countries, the federal government, the school partners. I deliberately say “grown braid”, because in reality one cannot invent such a thing, such something must grow. It has grown for decades to create a balance between the various decision-makers, the various legal actors, stakeholders. Most of us were not yet in the world when this system came into existence, and it is really – and I give you and many others the right one – to grow up and no longer be able to live up to a modern education concept. That is why we have also taken up this major educational reform project, this large package with the centrepieces of school autonomy and government reform. It is a difficult undertaking, and you all get it live every day, how difficult it is because the struggles are because just so many competences are involved, so many interests are involved and the debate is of course also being conducted emotionally. Of course, many interests are to be reconciled, and this makes all of this more difficult. We have, however, taken this initiative, and with this we have also made a living commitment, in accordance with the deadline proposal submitted today, a commitment towards the withdrawal of party policy from education and education, especially with the proposed measures: The abolition of the national school councils, the executive presidents, the representations – of course all political functions – of the colleges; these too are political bodies. – We want to abolish all of this and instead use an educational director with a clear qualification profile after a call for proposals with appropriate hearings; all of this should be ensured. This director, this director, is to be appointed by the Minister of Education on a proposal from the heads of state – yes, we could not get it away – but so far it was so that they could use anyone without any qualification profile, totally arbitrary, completely exposed to the arbitrariness of the national leaders. This was truly a need for reform, and we have done so. We have also reached compromises with the countries, and the countries have also jumped above their shadows. In this context, I would also like to thank the national leaders: That was not a matter of course, these were difficult negotiations, but there was really a lot of success. There are many measures: to simplify the billing, to merge the double-tracks – so there are so many models inside –, to focus on the liner and conductor order, and there are already a lot of models that are living practice, as in the Styria. But now we want to create a uniform, nationally uniform objective system, so that these positions are really comparable and therefore really equal start-up conditions are created and quality is guaranteed. Many have contributed to this reform package: the government parties – many thanks to Brigitte Jankund the co-negotiators – it is our common package. The contributions of the opposition parties were very, very valuable, and the Greens in particular have made a compromise proposal in which everyone could really find themselves, because no one has to bow to his decision. Now it is a question of real commitment to this package, of sending it through Parliament, so that the contents arrive as quickly as possible with Austria's students. In this sense, I ask you to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16296	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16317	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Matthias, I think there has rarely been a process of law enforcement in which the opposition parties were involved from the very beginning. It has been discussed with them what is present in thoughts, ideas, changes, and one or another has also been received and incorporated. At least you have used it, you have to let the accusation please you. [[Abg. Stroll: That's not true!]] - That's right. You decided: In fact, we do not need to talk any further! The last session did not start, but you said at the last session: We don't really care anymore, we don't need to talk anymore! - Yes, those are the facts. [[Abg. Stroll: I have presented you with a criteria catalogue, and you have not moved!]] – Matthias, it’s just the way it is, and you have to let that happen, you’re not even squeaky when you’re out, so you can use the plug-in for yourself. [[Abg. Stroll: You have to stick to the truth!]] - Yes, but those are the facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to repeat everything Mr Grossmann said. We have depoliticized the school administration with the proposal on the table. We have made sure that there is an objective procedure for the appointment of the educational director, we have first created an educational management at all, it is a procedure in which after qualification – I repeat it: after qualification – is selected and not – and that may have already been there or not, I do not put anything – only by the head of state. So it is not the head of state who then delegates it, but it is selected objectively. The applications will also be viewed by the teachers, and an assessment centre will be carried out according to quality frameworks involving staff consultants. So you have all this set up or will put all that on and off, which is otherwise made quite easy even with large and important orders in the personnel sector. Of course, this can also be criticised because you can always criticize everything, but I think that is not fair in this case. I can already imagine that this is difficult for a not so large group; we are changing 32 laws, and now we can already ask – and this critical remark comes from me –: Does our school system really need so many laws? Can't that be done differently, more clearly? – We have taken action to change a part of our school system. But the question raised by me is rightfully in the room. We have over 100 pages of legal texts, the most difficult materials to consider, of course, overall: What do we have now, what do we change? How do the changes affect each other? – Perhaps it is also because you were unable – I mean, not content, but time – to do so. [[Abg. Loacker: Now you're finally taking a break!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - I'm sorry, I don't think so, I say time. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Otherwise you would not have terminated the negotiations, but obviously I have made a wounded point. – Thanks many times for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16412	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16433	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen from NEOS, not a great excitement, the problem is – I can understand that from your point of view or from a general point of view from an opposition point of view, the government must accept this allegation, especially the Minister of Education, that it would have been better to have talks with the opposition parties for a long time or to have talks in advance, because one knew that it was about two-thirds. It is, of course, a bit strange that after two years, I believe that the negotiations are only over, in the last two months, that this is certainly the wrong way. I have to say that. This makes time very short. Now she may have gotten even tighter by re-election. This is certainly not the fault of the NEOS, the Green or the FPÖ, but rather the fault lies with the government. Yes, of course, we also fully agree with Mr Strolz and Mr Walser that party politics is definitely heard out of schools. That's not a question at all. But I believe, unlike Mr Strolz, and there I am a little bit with Mr Jank, that this educational reform would be at least a small step towards improvement. We know, of course, that the current national school council presidents are purely party policy. This is at least raised to a different level or adjusted to a sectional head. But no question: It would be an illusion to believe that the party political component would have disappeared! This would be as naïve as if one believed that a section head would not be politically occupied in any form. One thing, however, is from our liberal point of view, should this educational reform come to be a problem; we have always mentioned this as one of our conditions that this need to be changed: Under the cover of party policy, the colleges are to be completely abolished, abolished without replacement. What's going on with that? We do – and rightly so, we have always called for this – at the same time also the Vice-Presidents of the Councils of State Schools, and what happens to it? – In principle, the opposition in the respective country days has not had any possibility of It is not a question of whether or not the Community should be able to act in a way that is more effective in the field of education, i.e. the control possibilities are lost, and transparency is being completely lost. That's not all right for us. One would therefore remove control possibilities, the union would get a little stronger – that is certainly not the right way! We also know that party politics is dominated. It is not a single case that there is a party political post office there or there, but that is unfortunately the rule of God. I myself have seen such lists where, for example, certain schools are precisely listed: this page red, this page black, so and so many directors must be. If it doesn't work out completely, I've heard stories like: For a black director, there must be 15 red cleaning forces. - It's all crazy! Of course, that can't be. But that's not bad enough. It is even worse, in my opinion, that it is often personal interests in the course of party policy packages. There are cases that are known to me: For example, an NMS director goes against an AHS sub-level so that she does not lose pupils and thus lose her education exemption, and she does so successfully. There are mayors who need access to a construction project, and they then leave a folk school to be able to rebuild the other folk school. – There are things like this in our education system! This is definitely the wrong way. I believe that an essential solution – of course we are far away in the current situation – would be the clear separation between school supervision and school administration and management. This would help a lot to get such stories turned off. Another story that also has to do with party politics, which is going on and going on in our education system, is that unfortunately God’s recommendations on teaching materials for political education, which the Ministry of Education in particular publishes, are often recommended very tendent and manipulative teaching materials. We all know that there are also enough problems with various so-called anti-extremism lectures. If you look at it a little bit, you can expect that, rather from the left corner, party-political manipulation is carried out. I really must remind you that we also need to ensure that party political manipulation in our schools has nothing lost and has to be kept out.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16491	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16513	Madam President. High house! The deadline proposal gives us the opportunity to discuss the issue of education, which is currently being discussed in the media, here too. – Thank you, Matthias Strolz! The occasion is a bit clear, because the negotiations that are currently under way, and the compromises that have been concluded, will naturally lead to further discussions. None of us here is able to place an education system, an education administration on the green meadow as the respective party would like. If we could, it would look different, and I'm convinced that we would have with you, we would have been with the NEOS allies and could have reached a close agreement. That's not a question at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] Politics is once again the drilling of very hard boards, and in the education field they are particularly hard. In the negotiations, however, we have succeeded in reaching a compromise in many areas which points in the right direction. This is not a matter of course in Austria, and I would therefore like to ask, in a sound assessment of what is not yet on the table, but what we have put on the feet in the negotiating marathon of the last months and weeks, to judge it fairly. With regard to the two demands made by the Greens – whose education spokesperson I have the honour – we both have made very central progress if this is the case and the EIA is not overturned at the last minute. We have also made further progress – and now I come specifically to the field of education management – which you can logically not know, because you were not involved in the negotiations. But for a fair assessment, we should say: What's now, and what's coming? Is that what's coming better than what's now? – That’s what I’d say: clearly. Now we have Presidents of the Council of State Schools, who are at the same time head of state/state affairs – far more party-political is not possible! In the future, these presidents will be appointed after a qualification test, after a tendering procedure, after hearing. Now we have a mixed administration; the supervision of this head of state theoretically has the Federal Minister, while the head of state itself is in charge. We're always talking about a person, that's the current form. We have at least clear structures in the future, and – we have done so in the negotiations – we have much more transparency than this is the case now, and much more participation. This will then appear in the text of the law. Therefore, please judge when it is on the table! And please note that politics is something that is laborious, which must lead to compromises! We must all work hard to ensure that these compromises go in the right direction. - That's one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Mölzer, I can already remind you of the BORG Honauerstraße in Linz, where the FPÖ intervenes in a ongoing discussion, where a member of the FPÖ National Council, Mr Haider, ensures that the director is so intimidated that he enters the event and breaks it down! [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: Where a green speaker speaks!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Haider: You trust to say that...!]] To this end, there is a statement of a case at the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I understand your excitement. I understand it because this is an example of party political influence in Austria, which could almost be taken as a model example. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] We won't tolerate that. We didn't allow a blockkeeper system, we didn't allow any denunciation system in Austria's schools. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We will also oppose it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Mölzer: We did not allow left-wing speakers at the schools!]] As you have blamed on this question, you already show that you have set up your own homepage, “Party-free school”, and people have asked them to report. [[Abg. Lightenecker: It's closed again!]] [[Abg. Haider: A party-free school is a school without green speakers who hate the children!]] Now this homepage has been offline for three weeks, and it says: “Maintenance work”. [[Abg. Haider: Exactly!]] That's about the longest maintenance work in the world! No one's got to wait that long. They have unfortunately made this embarrassment public. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] They're the party that's most intervening. [[Abg. Haider:... no left-wing green speakers!]] We'll make sure you don't succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16695	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16713	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Walser, that is true: Politics is laborious! But since we are talking about our education system, the claim must be that we are fighting for the best possible solution, not only for those we are going through just now, those that we can negotiate with the country's heads and a country's chief. It simply has to be a different claim, especially when you look at what it is to be reformed. I would just like to recall what different aspects of the findings about the Austrian education system were. For example, a 2007 IHS study has said that in the education system of this type, “an efficient provision of services is not guaranteed”. The Management Group New from the Court of Auditors on school administration said: “The current school administration dates back to 1962 and is no longer contemporary,” for example – and this is really good to read –: ‘School quality cannot be assessed; the goal is not measurable. The reasons [...] lie in the constitutionally complex distribution of competence and the lack of conformity of expenditure, tasks and financing responsibilities between the federal government, countries and, at least, municipalities." The question you have to ask yourself is: Are these things that have been disputed really being solved by this educational reform? – I don’t think that can be answered with a yes. On the contrary: The insanity of this absurd system is still not solved. Mr Grossmann said yes: You can't invent that. – Yes, I hope not! Who would invent that? If you were to rethink the school system, how would you get to such a nonsense – in order to formulate it nice? It's a balance that's grown for decades. If plants grow over a wall for decades, so that the building substance is destroyed and at the end you can't get out, it's probably – or hopefully – not wanted. On the subject of education, you have also said that it is less bad than before. - I hope so! Of course, a reform should lead to some sort of problem being solved. The fact that it is better than before must be the minimum requirement for this solution, but that cannot be anything we wish for. Because you have said that it is not natural that the national leaders have given in many points: Of course that must be a matter of course! I absolutely do not think it is a matter of course how we deal with the fact that the national leaders are participating in education policy in this way. It should be natural to remove this dysfunctional system, this absurd administrative structure that we have. That should be a matter of course in this debate! If Mrs Jank says that the whole thing is not so bad at all, that it actually does not work that way and in the past there has never been any party-political influence in any area at all, then you can only quote from the 2015 Court of Auditors report to the school authorities in Upper Austria and Tyrol – that is not so long ago –: “The design of the government structure of the National School Councils was unique in the federal administration system.” – So you have tried to formulate positively what is absurdity. – “The political twin president (Chairman of the State) and the President-in-Office had a strong influence on the country.” What does that mean? Just invent everything? Is this an idea for us if it is in a report on the Court of Auditors? – Probably not, because that is actually nicely formulated. I believe that the auditors would probably have formulated it differently if they could have. How do we change the whole thing? – If you can now quote this from the draft: For each country, an educational management is established, a common authority of the federal and country. – How do you even get the idea? And then: “The law allows the head of state to preside over the head of education as president.” – Normally, of course! This, in turn, is something you say: You couldn't have invented that, and you shouldn't have invented it. The blockade of a successful development of our education system is really the worst tragedy in Austrian politics at all. Yes, education policy is laborious! But I would like to say this again: If we have to be here as a small opposition party of the barn in this two-thirds majority, we are very happy. In the field of education policy, it cannot be the right to agree on the smallest common denominator, on what is possible with the national leaders, on what they give you. In particular, in the field of education policy, the right must be the right to come up with the best possible solution. This draft is clearly not that!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16784	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16805	Madam President. High house! If you have a system that doesn't work, you have to ask yourself a question, namely: Wouldn't this system exist, would I build it that way? That means: If there were no education system, would I build it as it is currently built? If the answer is no – and I think we all agree, we have heard from the SPÖ today – then the question is: What prevents me from doing what it should be? From my point of view, there are two aspects of why this will not work in the future, in all the efforts that are seriously meant by one of the other, are only predetermined by the other. The first factor is the teacher union. By definition, the union has a different interest than it may have the parents or the state. The trade unions are primarily interested in directing it to their teachers for their trade union members. It is quite clear that the whole thing is going down the stream in businesses such as the voest and others, where the trade unions spoke and were very strongly involved in business decisions. At the voest we have seen this: finally, more loss than sales if the trade union agrees! We also have the problem in school: Whenever it comes to looking at the quality of teachers, the union says no. When it comes to creating a certain competition within the teachership, the union says no. When it comes to removing from the classroom the 5,000 problem teachers whose existence the union openly admits, the union says no. – This is the first problem we are facing, namely the problem that the trade union agrees that the union decides but has other interests than the students and the parents. The second aspect – and this is very much related to politics – is a power instrument. I once told you the example of my child who was driving at school at Schi week. The teacher asked if she could provide joint helmets for the children. Since my daughter had no helmet at the time, I agreed. When she got back from this ski week, I almost fell out of power, because she went around a whole week with a helmet that I paid for and where on the side there was a big deal on it: ‘Chairman Erwin Pröll’. – “Bravo”, says ÖVP! [[Congratulations, bravoruf and other calls to the ÖVP.]] ‘Bravo’, did you hear it? – The ÖVP calls “Bravo”, because the ÖVP is masters in the exploitation of the structures, to the preservation of power of the ÖVP. That is exactly what it looks like, and that is why we do not want to be threefold in the field of education. [[Abg. Tamandl:... are our children!]] That's why everything has to stay the way it is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The trade unions, which also come from the ÖVP, must continue to have the influence, and, of course, national heads of state must preserve their influence. When it comes to doing something good for the children, there are those alone who would be interested in it, namely the parents. [[Abg. Rädler: The head of state...!]] The parents don't have a lobby. The parents don't put themselves on the back legs either. You know why? - I haven't understood this for a long time: There are over a million parents in Austria who have children in school, and they do not do anything, they are somehow lethargic. And I've never been able to explain why. On the one hand, politics stands with its interests, and on the other hand, the union stands with its interests, but the parents seem to have no lobby and do not stand on the back legs either. I know why. – The parents have no idea what is in their children, who believe that it is their child, when her child has problems in school, that it is their child. The abstraction that this may lie with the teacher or at school or at the structure falls to the least, and that is why they fit into their fate, as if it were simply a big bad luck to have a child who does not have the skills one might have expected of this one. That's the problem! These parents do not even know what a school system might look like in which their child would have the opportunity to develop. So these children remain behind their abilities, and you take it like God-given and don't question the system at all. In Austria, however, there is also a system that works. There is also the school that works in Austria; there is, and this is the non-confessional private school. This school works in Austria, which is unpolitical and achieves good results, only: Not everyone can afford it! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That's the problem! That's why we need a free private school for everyone. Then we would also have the competition for public school, and the problem would be solved within a second. But this does not want either the SPÖ or the ÖVP, and that is why we are working on a system that has in fact been dead for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16900	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, to the Committee on Education to report on the motion for a resolution 1445/A(E) on the withdrawal of party policy from the school administration for a period of 20 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. [[15:42:30]] We now come to the brief debate on the request by Mr Steinbichler, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on the 1960/A request for a "publicity of parliamentary committees" for a period of up to 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will be taken on the request for a time limit. We are going into the debate. Mr Steinbichler came to speak; Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e16955	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! On this request for a deadline relating to the public of parliamentary committees, it should be said: This is a very essential matter, which should not be postponed until after the elections and on which a new government should not be made to decide. During our stay in Berlin, we have experienced in the German Bundestag that this is already being practiced there. However, there the media and the citizens are only allowed to attend one meeting each year. At that time I came to believe that this would mean a significant acceleration and an improvement in parliamentary work. Why? – We often get to hear the question at the common tables, in private conversations, in company discussions, in discussions with colleagues or in clubs: What are you doing in Parliament? Once a month you have a meeting, is there anything else to do? This is because citizens do not at all know how intensive committee work is being done and how intensively the committees discuss subject issues and draft resolutions. This, of course, gives the citizens the impression that our job here is a superjob, and think: They get paid well, travel once a month to Vienna, make their plenary sessions, and that's it again, and if you are in the constituencies, you drive out, you take care of his voters, his groups, but that's really a cool job! The citizens really have an interest in what is happening in the committees. They want to follow the work there, they want to evaluate it. I think it would be a tremendous appreciation of the political work of the mandates if citizens could actively participate in listening to the committees and they would be inspired to make proposals for improvement. I think that would be living democracy, that would be real direct democracy, because the citizens would say: Look, I was with the committee last week, because I had an idea, I would have an improvement proposal! I think that's exactly how politics should work! Then it would be a living democracy and not a client policy. I think that's the essential thing we have to put on. We know how difficult this is here. The plenary session is as The speaking time is limited. Hardly a topic has been addressed, the red light is already lit, and out of collegial consideration one stops earlier and no longer comes to the reasoning of his arguments. My colleague, Mr Aubauer, thankfully even presented this in a newspaper report. Of course, on the part of the smaller groups, one has the advantage – but of course also the disadvantage, but thank God also the advantage – to be able to work a lot and to be represented in many committees, and thus, compared to the former “large parties” – under quotation marks – one has more speaking time because they divide the speaking time. I believe that this is why we could take a common practical step to make committee work accessible and involve citizens in it. I am convinced that this would mean a significant increase in the quality of parliamentary work. I am also convinced that this active cooperation, this contribution, this co-existence of the specialist discussions would bring much greater appreciation to our work by the citizens. This participation of citizens – and this is very important – would give a true picture of parliamentary work in the public. You'd see: Who's really trying? Who really wants to do something? Who is involved in the work and is actually doing something? A very practical example: Since 2009, the Quality Seal Act has been abrogated in this House, a law that covers a very wide range of matter, from the environment to the climate, from the designation of origin to the safety of consumers and to the protection of health. We have huge possibilities there. Why is this not implemented? – No one can answer that! Then to say: Because there is now another election ahead and election is, we do everything else, now everything is implemented!, does not bring us on either. It'll be back for years. We are losing a very important quality advantage to our neighbouring countries, to our competitors in European and international competition. It would be a pioneer role that Austria could take over, as we have already discussed today in the tourism report and in the energy report. Think of the small eco electricity law novelle, of what possibilities we can get from home here in our super-beautiful country: from the water energy to the very great possibilities in the forestry area – wood utilization both in the construction area and in the heating sector – as in the food sector, where we advertise not only on the labels but also really serve them with domestic quality products that are present! If we were to offer this to our guests in our magnificent cultural landscape combined with the urban cultural range, that would be unique. If we managed to make the work of the Committee publicly available, if we managed to work together with the electorate, with the citizens, to develop this pioneering role, we would pick up the delay that we have received in Germany over the last ten years. In Germany, we have taken steps with the 2010 Agenda, of which we are still entering the harvest. That is why we should bring the citizens' ideas into this House, and it is necessary for the committees to make committee work publicly available to the public, to give the media the opportunity to take a picture of who positions himself where and how. That is why we ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we receive your consent for this deadline request. It represents a tremendous appreciation of this House or Parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17037	Mr Wittmann is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17058	Madam President. High house! In principle, we need to maintain that we have also discussed the publication of the committees in the Committee of Inquiry. We already have public committees. We alone have about five to ten public sessions per year in the Constitutional Committee. That means we know that, that's already happening. We have basically also experienced the fact that, if a committee is public, hardly anyone is interested in it. No one's coming from outside. I therefore believe that it would probably be much more effective to make this public out of Parliament, that we are making videos that can then be asked on the Parliament homepage about video-on-demand so that we can make live streams so that school classes can watch it live. We could technically improve this offer considerably from Parliament for the public meetings already held. I think that would probably be more effective. On the other hand, it wouldn't make sense to make everything public. For this I give an example: The administrative jurisdiction would not have been introduced, all committee meetings would have been public, because everyone has kept his position outside, i.e. in the public. The statements made have repeatedly strengthened the starting position. On the inside, however, we were much further off with the discussions and were finally able to submit a six-party proposal to the committees after many rounds of discussion. I am therefore not of the opinion of Mr Steinbichler that there would be less client policy in the committees, but I believe that this would even increase, because everyone would stay at his official position, which he represents outside, in other words in the media, and therefore the willingness to compromise. would not be so large within the Committee. For example, see the following example: There are always solutions in the committees. Therefore: The public, yes, that is, the public's access to Parliament technologically in order to have access to Parliament via the Internet, through video-on-demand, because people do not come to Parliament, but we have to provide them with the offer at home, because the public in the committees is far too little used. Therefore: Indeed, public production, namely as a service for home, is more intense, technically better and high-quality, but still no general public, because one would only hear the statements that are generally heard in the media. The willingness to compromise, which is given in the committees and which ultimately leads to solutions, would be much more limited if only statements were made permanently, which would also be given to the public. So you can see: That's all his way! Again: Public in the form of a technically high-quality service yes, but not all in principle make available to the public. Then: What would happen then? . We would probably advise on what is really important in compromise talks within subcommittees, and that would not be public again. So – in order not only to run election struggles, but also to deal with them in an objective discussion –: You should, I think, consider both sides. In this sense, I do not think it would be useful to decide now, before an election.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17113	Mr Mag. Gerstl is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17134	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Especially dear spectators on the screens! I would like to illustrate where we already have a public in the committees everywhere: We have them in all the reports of the Federal Government, which are discussed and presented in the committees. We have them in all the votes in the main committee on European Union matters. We have them at the hearings of experts and informants. We have them at all the general debates on popular desires. We also have them when preparing reports from the Court of Auditors when they are invited to do so. In all these cases, the committees have the public. On all other points, we can discuss this question. Then, when it seems particularly important, we can allow the public to do so. However, it is also very important to me to stress that it is not only a matter of participation, that one can directly participate in the committees, but also that there is a possibility of consultation, because committees are advisory bodies. If we no longer have the opportunity to consult, I think that will be a disadvantage to the opposition parties in particular, because then the government parties will sit down and make up a text and present them afterwards. [[Abg. Scherak: That's what they're doing now!]] Then the opposition parties only have the opportunity to object and no longer have the opportunity to take part in the deliberations. So: If you continue to have discussions in the committees, it is important, I believe, that we also receive the opportunity for deliberations and not exclusively to present our own views. That seems to me essential in such bodies. It is also important that there is the exchange and lead of different positions. It should not be so that every single position is presented to the public only, as is the case now in plenary. There are no consultations here in plenary. That should be enough example for us that this is not suitable for work in the committees. I therefore do not think it useful to take the example of the plenary in a committee. A committee has a different quality than the plenary, so we need different rules for the committee. One thing to mention would be important to me when it comes to making more participation possible, and I have made this proposal more often: For me, more participation means not only that we invite guests to the High House to participate in our work – by the way, this will be very difficult in the next three years, because the space will be even lower in the committee premises that we have available in the aside quarter, namely in the Hofburg, than we have here in the High House. If you've ever looked at that, you know that. In this case, perhaps only five, up to ten people will have the opportunity to participate in a committee. I think it is important that we go to the public, that we go to the individual federal states, that we go to the constituencies and report on our committee work there, officially mandatory. This will allow us to reach much more people than if we make every single committee accessible to the public, because it will never reach as many people as we can if we go out to the people ourselves. In this sense: Don't pour out the child with the bath! Where necessary, we should give the public more information – and more information than we have planned so far – and where we can inform ourselves outside, we should go out to the people and inform them on the spot. This brings more than what is proposed here. And the discussions in the committees should continue to be discussed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17183	Mr D. Kassager spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17204	Madam President. High house! The question now is: What is public in Parliament and in the committees and what is not public? I can basically agree with what Mr Wittmann said at the beginning of the debate. This corresponds to the legal situation that we now have in § 37a of the Rules of Procedure, which was, by the way, only completely innovationed in 2014, and I assume, once again, that we have thought and differentiated ourselves on this subject in the process of revision. There is always the need for differentiated consideration: What is open to the public or when does it make sense to involve the public? The evaluation criterion can only be: You speak – and this is undisputed; you have also said this, Mr Wittmann, – simply different or different, if the public is presented differently – is the same: the media – more or less involved than if this is not the case. I also believe that consensus or, if you look at results, the probability that something will happen in many cases is higher. Politicians also have the right to be among themselves and to discuss certain things among themselves. This is precisely covered by § 37a. Mr Gerstl has already listed the many, many ways in which, in accordance with this paragraph, the public will be admitted. The access of the liberals to this issue is that of saying that the existing legal situation is entirely sufficient, § 37a is balanced and good, there is no need for change. This is a system which is in itself coherent and structured in the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, we are, of course, ready to speak when it comes to discussing good ideas on improving the Rules of Procedure. We see this also mentioned by Mr Wittmann in relation to the public meetings which have already been held. We should consider taking advantage of the technical possibilities available in 2017. They have talked about live streams, videos and so on – there we are quite ready to talk, also as far as the survey committee is concerned. We have the regulation in § 98 para. 5, that in principle the public can be drawn up, but a decision is needed. One could think about whether one does not reverse this and allows the public in principle and excludes the public only by decision. A technical explanation: We will vote in favour of this deadline because, in principle, we believe that everything that accelerates parliamentary processes is good, and consents to such an acceleration. That does not mean, however, and I believe that, from my speech, we will also agree to such a request in substance; we will not do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17246	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17268	Madam President. I thought we were in the deadline debate, but we ended up in a fairy tale hour. [[Cheerful for Greens and NEOS.]] Mr Wittmann! What legislative processes, documents negotiated in a committee, are you actually talking about, and where any changes are being made? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and NEOS.]] I have been in Parliament since 1999, but either I am in the wrong committee or in the wrong Parliament. I haven't noticed yet that this has anything to do with reality. Even colleague Kassager must laugh at it; as if it were a picture that is real, and so on. Of course, there are negotiating situations in Parliament, which we have had in various forms. There have been over one and a half years of U-committee negotiations. This framework, in which we are trying to reach compromises, should also exist in politics, and that does not have to be open automatically. If it were in Parliament that there really is work going to be done – in the sense of putting in proposals and then ringing for them – then you could think about it; but that has nothing to do with reality in Austria at all. [[Abg. Wenninger:... that's why we exclude the public!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] - Sorry! Do you know what the only thing you can do in the committees? – Who makes the request for a postponement! This is the only advice that takes place and that covers the whole. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Mölzer.]] That would be a bit embarrassing if you could see that, I am clear, so I am surprised by the position of the FPÖ, which is also justified by the fact that every request is de facto maimed and postponed. You don't see all of this, there's no public at all. The idea that we should broadcast what is now public, then live on TV, makes it even scurry. What's public? – The reports where no one goes and says: They are so important to us that we bring them to the plenary session, that is, those who are being finished. About what is too fad for the plenary, we make a report that is widely seen, but that which is exciting, the relevant legislative matrices, remains under the cover of silence. The only ones to benefit from it are Members who are not sufficiently prepared for the debate. There is no substantial debate then. There was a wonderful example of this, a law on data storage: The Greens, as it were, turned the Rules of Procedure in so far as they came with a camera and said: That's what we're transferring live now! – First of all, there was a big debate about whether or not this could happen, then one said: Well, well, they're coming with the camera; if we don't do that now, we'll never get a law, so we'll stop it! Mrs Fekter was then an interior minister. First it has been killed, after about an hour, colleague Fekter spoke in the camera, turned to the people out there and tried to present the law. In retrospect, it was a serious, substantial debate that would never have taken place otherwise. Let us, therefore, accept the reproach, so as to say that legislative amendments will be tabled in committees in the Austrian Parliament! This is just as a debate as here, there are no discussions. You can watch it: The first person to report is usually the one who has to make the request for a provocation before even a word message comes. – This is a matter of urgency abolished! But this will only be done with more transparency and the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17331	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17350	Madam President. We are discussing the question that we should make committee meetings public in the Austrian Parliament, yes, again and again. Mr Brosz has already said it right, I too feel that I am sitting in a Parliament other than Mr Wittmann and Mr Gerstl. I asked again before, and 21 requests have been postponed in the last Committee on Health. Although I was not in the Health Committee, I know the reasons for other delays. There are several options: Either the application is not yet matured, that is one possibility, or – the other option – it is too detailed, so it should be postponed. In the case of the ÖVP, by the way, the rite of initiation; if you become a new Member of the ÖVP, you have to postpone a request of the opposition at the first committee meeting, which obviously belongs to that. [[Abg. Brosz: Or your own!]] So there's something wrong with that! On the argument, we cannot work in the committees – I said this last time in the debate –: You should talk to your colleagues in the European Parliament, which is where committees are public. These will also be streamed live on the European Parliament's homepage. If they know that they obviously do not work in their committees, because it is not possible to work when a committee is public – I think this is quite interesting! Mr Karas and Mrs Regner would certainly explain this to you. I think they work very intensively, they also have a much larger work plan. Once again, I have selected the Committee meetings of the LIFE Committee: This was eight times in January 2017, twice more often than the Constitutional Committee in the Austrian Parliament in the last half year. So to say, you can't work if a committee is public, it's kind of weird. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] The negotiating situations we have do not run out of the committee. We have a law that has been negotiated for ages, the Information Freedom Act, which is also about greater transparency in the state administration. If anyone tells me that we had negotiated the Information Freedom Act in the Constitutional Committee, he would tell a not quite true story. Where is negotiations? – It is, of course, negotiated in rounds of negotiations. We have discussed the small democratic package, if one can call it, of course negotiated outside the committee and tried to find appropriate solutions. So acting as if we were negotiating in committee is somewhat bizarre. Mr Gerstl has already explained why he does not want to. He said: We, the Parliament, decide where it is necessary for the population to receive information. – This claim is of such significance as the continuous claim that SPÖ and ÖVP have in general in their policy: It is always about the state wanting to have as much information from the citizens as possible. There are more and more surveillance measures, we are making more and more video surveillance. The Minister of the Interior is always pleased that the passenger data storage is also coming so that he knows in the future what I eat when I fly somewhere – the storage of data is always large at the ÖVP. But when it comes to the fact that we Members of Parliament are providing information to the citizens of Austria, for whom we are working, who, of course, have a right to obtain all the necessary information, including to learn what is happening in the Committee, to provide information and to watch a committee, it is said: We decide where it is necessary for citizens to be informed. This is a condition in Austrian democracy: that you believe it's okay that you constantly “negotiate” anything behind closed doors – under quotation marks – because it's really only about delays, and that you believe that you can decide what information is available to citizens in Austria. Reverse fetch You can use as much information as possible as a person has in his private life so that you can know. It's always the same thing: Any intensifications, new surveillance measures always come from the EIA, but you yourself are not willing to inform in any way transparently about the legislative process here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17397	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17419	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Thank you for this interesting speech, which shows how shared opinions are. Mr. Kassinger, your position was a little surprising, but Mr. Scherak and Mr. Brosz have put it straight to the point: How are citizens informed? What do they say? How do you report it? How long do you torment the opposition until a good proposal has been chewed a good idea in government? – We have to assume that it takes a long time for an idea to be postponed, to be postponed again, then discussed; then we have to be advised, and we take care of additional information, and eventually it comes out of the government corner, and the feather is on the government hat – with some ideas it is so. But it would be enough if a committee were public a year – one! – because I want to know how the journalists react and if citizens take time, it would be all the better if they saw, for example, that the Quality Seal Act was postponed in 2009 by those ladies and gentlemen who are responsible for it and explain their clients to the tribal tables, at the assemblies exactly the opposite: The opposition fails; there are so many possibilities, if only the opposition would not be! Well, if you know what the opposition in Parliament is telling! This is completely different in the committees. Delightful, latest example: President Schultes, unfortunately not in the house now, the most talented of the agricultural presidents we have ever had, member of the social partners – sensational! – is part of the social dialogue and explains that the €1500 minimum wage and a 12-hour day are introduced; coming from a professional group – if he still knows – in which there are many couples who work twelve hours a day seven days a week but do not earn €1500. He then explains in his interview about the modern farming in Lower Austria: 3 percent of farmers are enough, because of the technical progress we no longer need. I've taken a picture today, so we know where the food will come from. Clearly, we do not need many more farmers, it is enough if you see a few in the country that work for the label. In advertising the pig then speaks so that you can see how good and how formed the pig is, and in it we do industrial mansch. – That’s irresponsible! And that is why it would be so necessary for these committees to be public. For example, education reform: What have we brought together in education policy? – The fact that this government is discussing whether or not we are still an additional Have a week of autumn holidays. This is education, and in this performance society there is a real young person who is ready to do so. That is why it is good for the media and the population to be able to take a look at the work, the positions of the individual groups, so that they know who the citizens represent, who operates client policy. I believe that this has now been worked out quite precisely who is taking up what position in the various areas. That is why it is so necessary to make at least one committee public each year. There is nothing there, ladies and gentlemen. If the representatives of the government parties are right, if they say that the committees are anyway so seriously debated and that great compromises are being made, then we will also present this to the citizens, then they will also have a great advantage. – So there are only advantages for all those involved, therefore: make absolutely public!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17480	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Members Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on the 1960/A amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council – the public of parliamentary committees – a deadline until 24. ==References== Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[16:13:43]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17513	I shall resume the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda. I welcome Mr Mag. Drozda. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17541	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues and spectators in front of the screens! Actually, we are at the last item on the agenda, but we are still exactly on committee work, because we have three requests from the last Human Rights Committee today, and by chance – beware, irony! – these are all requests from the government groups. The other four requests that have been made by the “false” – under quotation marks – have all been postponed – three times you can guess – with which we are still on the subject. I am speaking, however, of one of the three requests which the public was allowed to see because they were put together by SPÖ and ÖVP, namely a resolution concerning IS, systematic mass murder of religious and ethnic minorities. This is, of course, a request that can only be accepted. We will vote for it out of full conviction, even though it underlines once again a resolution adopted unanimously by the European Parliament in February 2016. and reaffirmed. Yes, one can do that, but that is more than one and a half years ago, that one has unanimously agreed on it in the European Parliament. The Federal Government wanted to underline this once again, we think it is good, we support it. What we do not like is that the same federal government does not listen to the integration councils and councillors of this Republic. In the autumn of 2016, the nine competent national councils and councillors for integration decided unanimously that they would welcome the inclusion of Jesid women and their children released from the ISIS's catches that they undertake to take up and house 300 liberated Jesidic women, the murder, but unfortunately not their rape and their sale on slave markets, whose men, by the way, have all been murdered and murdered by the terrorist militia IS in Austria. This unanimous decision of the nine integration councils of autumn 2016 will be a report by the Ö1 radio station of 2. According to June 2017, mainly by Foreign Minister Kurz and Minister of the Interior Sobotka were driven behind or braked out. For more information, please listen to "oe1.orf.at" where it is announced that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior do not want there to be a resettlement procedure for rescued, rescued Jesids and their children. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to measure the government parties whether, if they say A, they say B, too, because what has been decided unanimously for a long time to decide once again is not a great art. But if one says that one is for minority protection and one condemns the horrendous states of the IS and one wants to help Jesid women and, above all, single women whose men were killed, then one must also let beautiful words follow actions. That is why we are anxious whether you will agree to this motion for a resolution here and today. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17607	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17691	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17710	Madam President. Federal Minister! Today, we adopt unanimously a proposal calling on the UN Security Council, in particular, to condemn the atrocities of the IS. In addition, we also strongly demand the judicial persecution of these crimes against humanity and war crimes. Another point mentioned in the motion for a resolution is that we want to make it clear that both Iraq and Syria are subject to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in order to be able to suspect these serious war crimes also through the International Criminal Court. As much as this is an important sign of the Austrian National Council, it raises questions as well as questions as Austria on the issue of the common foreign and security policy of Europe. These war crimes and these genocides do not happen far away from us, and they concern us in many ways: on the one hand, the question of how the Islamic State repeatedly frightens us with the terrorist attacks in Europe and kills people, on the other hand, of course also because of the corresponding movements of refugees, which are thereby triggered. The IS is explicitly attacking our European values and our European attitudes towards the rule of law, fundamental rights, human rights and humanity. As important as this proposal is and as important as the concrete measures in it, such as the establishment of UN protection zones in particular, it is clear – and Mrs Pfurtscheller has already mentioned it – that this is, of course, highly complex. This is particularly due to the institutionality of the UN Security Council, which unfortunately is paralysed again and again. We NEOS believe that we, the European Union, should also offer more options for action. That is why we have always said that we need to be clearer and more common in European foreign and security policy, because it is only then possible that we can effectively create a meaningful common European defence union. This, of course, includes a common European army, which should also have the capacity to participate properly in peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures. To maintain peace and to secure peace must be an essential key task for the European Union; and we should finally end national-state small-minority, because this is, of course, an essential point in the European Union: a common European army, which is also capable of getting involved in such conflicts. These are important questions for the EU. The European Union should focus on these future issues instead of dealing with rather unnecessary issues that we are constantly discussing. We need a common European In order to ensure that these measures can also be clearly involved in peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17758	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17779	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, we, too, will agree with this proposal by the Stronach team, it contains a lot of points that can only be supported. A particular point that we have repeatedly called for is also contained in it, namely the protection zones. You remember: Years ago, in the television interview, Frank Stronach called for these protection zones so that people in their usual environment near their home country can live in safety, wait until the peace returns there and then help with reconstruction. Mrs Korun, as much as I understand your request regarding Jesidins, I think that if you have or have these protection zones – I hope we do – these people can be accommodated where they can walk back in the Arab area in their usual environment. [[Call the Greens: Don't you have!]] [[Call the Greens.]] I think it would be more necessary than to get people up somewhere and come back sometime. This may not be the optimal solution, because – I am sorry – we will not agree to your request. Today, the Greens will make another request – I do not know who will bring it in – he is about a deportation stop to Afghanistan. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, there was a terrible bombing in front of the German Embassy in Afghanistan, in an embassies district. This is a very bad thing, 90 dead or more, many seriously injured. [[Abg. Korun: Meanwhile 150!]] It is quite clear that such actions are absolutely unacceptable, and I regret it for the people who are affected by it; therefore, to say that people who have come to Austria illegally are no longer being deported there, I believe, on another sheet. There were terrorist attacks in England, there were terrorist attacks in France, Germany, Belgium; if we say in all cases, we don't go there now, you can no longer travel there – which is the same thing; They say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has issued a travel warning in this regard – then I wonder if we are not shooting out of the target. It would also be a signal that more and more are coming to Austria or Central Europe, and the result would be that with this wave of refugees, which we now have a little bit in hand – we don't really get hold of them, but only a little bit in control – we would get back on big problems. Integration would not work. You know it yourself: If there are too many people coming from outside, then this will be a problem, then it won't pack our system anymore. If we want to achieve successful integration, then you have to do it with measure and target and controlled, otherwise that doesn't work. That's something you have to address. But I would also like to make two more requests from my group, which are very dear to me, in this debate. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know this request, I have already made it several times. I think he's more up-to-date than ever. The Federal Government and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs also say the same thing that we have to do something to bring back the people who have come to this country illegally, back to their homeland, where they came from and from where they have been illegally entered. You don't get a negative asylum notice so fast, there's a long process behind it, so there's something behind it, and I think we'd take a good measure with it. I submit a second request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues on the prohibition of ‘Political Islam’ in comparison to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Law of 1947’ The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a draft law prohibiting the ‘Political Islam’ and its associated associations, organisations and bodies, in an analogous way to the Convention in 1947.’ I think this is very up-to-date; Klubobmann Lugar mentioned this yesterday in his press release. This is necessary, because if we do not fight political Islam, then the peaceful Isam will not be able to stand here and will not be accepted. I believe that peaceful Islam stands for a good living together between the different religions, which has worked for a long time. Now political Islam is on the move, and we must put a bar on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17858	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17981	The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e17999	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many different opinions and opinions here, and there is rarely any subject on which the vast majority of the House says: Yeah, that's right, I'm for that too! - Today's such a day. I am convinced that every woman and every man here in the National Council despises the actions of the so-called Islamic State. All here are convinced that this ideology must be repressed, it must no longer spread and implement its deadly activity. Only a few days ago in London, yesterday in Paris, ISIS adherents performed an attack on peaceful people. They killed indiscriminately, their goal was to shed as much blood as possible. Why? – Because they hate us; because they hate our Western values, such as freedom, women's rights, minority rights, gay rights; because they are indoctrinated by men who regard themselves and their ideology as the only true and as the only right ones who show their ideology as faith so that they can claim to speak in God's name. We know from painful experience, ladies and gentlemen: Whenever the sole possession of the truth is claimed, the others suffer. Dictatures of all kinds have proved this over the centuries. We have worked hard and solved ourselves with many fights. The Austria we live in today is the result of the insight: Everyone and everyone should be able to live the way they or he wants. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] The limits are reached when the freedom of others is violated. IS fans cannot deal with this because they do not want to assume the responsibility that comes with a free life. Instead, they report findings that are as simple as wrong, as stupid as deadly. Ladies and gentlemen, our democracy is defensive, our democracy is strong! These cowardly people of IS will not cause us to change our lives for fear, nor are they important enough. Only then, when democracies are strongly and self-confidently opposed to the crimes of the IS will they be able to stop the terrible drive of these criminals. Only if we continue to live on our diversity, including in the National Council, the criminals of the IS have lost 100 percent. We don't let ourselves take our freedom with bombs, knives, or amok rides. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Korun and Mr Scherak, for their support.]] I would like to thank Members Pfurtscheller and Kirchgatterer very much for this initiative and also thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18056	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18078	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Never again war! was the idealistic call of many people who, under the impression of destructive world wars, longed for eternal peace. If you hear this today, it sounds like a distant utopia, because there have never been so many military conflicts on our globe – there is only a new dimension: You get the pictures of the war delivered to the house. By means of television, you can see a rocket flying, looking for its goal and detonating there. You can see the devastations, you can see people who are injured and many dead. That is to say, the war is being delivered to the house and through the conflicts in the Middle East, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, a new dimension, namely the destruction of ancient cultural sites. As a civilized society, one is quite concerned when one sees things like this when things happen in the Middle Ages, which should no longer take place today; this goes down to the atrocities of the IS: As prisoners of war are burned, drowned, they are cut through the throat in front of running camera, and images are distributed in the social media. People, because they belong to another faith, are massacred – in front of running cameras. It is therefore important that the House sets a strong mark and says: These acts are to be regarded as genocide! As the European Parliament has done, so should we. It is important to send this signal, and also that the people who have done so should be responsible before the International Criminal Court. It is well known that the countries that submit to this regime are then also persecuting the perpetrators. Iraq and Syria have not yet submitted to the International Criminal Court, so it is important that this be done, because these atrocities, these disgusting acts must easily have consequences in order to prevent such things in other parts of the world. Finally, I should like to say: An active foreign policy is important, and, Mrs Korun, you cannot blame the Foreign Minister or the Austrian policy here for having received too few people. You know, Austria has received a lot of people; and you also know that you have criticized it, for example, when Austria said: [[Abg. Korun: Have you heard my speech?- Oh, my God!]] Let us take Christians! because it has been your concern to include people in general, no matter what creeds. [[Abg. Korun: Yes, have you heard my speech?- Oh, my God!]] If you now say that Jesids are to be included, then nobody has anything against it, but you also know that Austria is participating in the Resettlement Programme and that people are selected by the UNHCR and proposed Austria. Austria will take part in this and will continue to make its contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18143	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the resolution on IS, which was annexed to the Committee's report in 1649, on systematic mass murder of religious and ethnic minorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 204.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on measures to combat political Islam. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Korun, ladies and gentlemen, on the inclusion of free yezids in Austria. I would like to ask those who support this motion for a resolution for a sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, fellow Members, on 'The establishment of EU camps in North Africa for persons with negative asylum status'. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, so rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues on ‘The prohibition of ‘Political Islam’ in comparison to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Law of 1947’. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, therefore rejected. [[16:35:42]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 2166/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on the reform of the European Court of Human Rights (1650 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18258	So we get to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kirchgatterer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18285	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The European Court of Human Rights is a very important achievement, was founded by the Member States of the Council of Europe in 1959 and is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the UN, the United Nations, of 1948. Today, the Council of Europe has 47 member countries with 800 million citizens. Nearly half of the cases pending at the European Court of Human Rights came from three countries – Ukraine, Poland and Turkey – in 2015. Most complaints come from private individuals. Easy access is guaranteed, and it is also crucial that it is made possible for citizens without procedural fees. Judgments shall be binding on the Member States of the Council of Europe. The reform of the European Court of Human Rights clearly concerns our values, the practical implementation of our values, the day-to-day implementation. The reform must not bring watering, narrowing, screwing back, reducing quality, but rather must have the substance of upgrading, strengthening, strengthening and strengthening our humanistic values: the strengthening and further development of democracy, the separation of violence in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18316	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18337	Greetings, Madam President! Minister! High house! The increasing legalisation of our society, to which we also contribute a large part, also means that there are more and more procedures, that the courts are increasingly being used and that the State or the States also have the obligation to provide such facilities so that the law can also be implemented. We know from our own country – from the District Courts to the National Courts to the Supreme Courts – that we are constantly confronted with the problem, that there are more procedures, that there are mass procedures, and that this mass of procedures strains the functioning of our Supreme Courts, let us say that. We know this from all three Supreme Courts. That is why it takes more and more rules to give them access. The European Court of Human Rights is suffering, as it were, from this massive storm, which is taking certain measures to create order on the one hand, in formal terms, in order to make it easier. The European Court of Human Rights has done so in a way that is relatively original, namely with a form. Anyone who files a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights must use the form of the Court of Justice which can be downloaded from the Internet, namely the current form. If someone doesn't have the form of 1. ==References====External links== Used in January 2014, it is already rejected, and this can, of course, lead to the loss of the claim, since these applications are also binding on the time-limit. It is understandable that there is a desire for order. We must be careful, however, because the limitation of the formal part always entails a limitation of the substantive right. If we take fundamental and freedom rights seriously if we take individual rights seriously, we must also maintain individual complaints. In Prussian law, it has said in one place that the laws give to someone to whom they give a right, also the means to enforce it. – These funds must also be made available in this case. I would like to add one point: The collective exercise of the right in the formal sense poses the danger of restricting the rights of individuals, the individual complaint. That is what I say with regard to the fact that there are common representatives, there group complaints, there conditions; it depends on the consent of other people that the individual can enforce his claim. We have to be very careful. Especially when we take fundamental and freedom rights seriously, we must also take the individual complaint seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18379	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18401	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We will absolutely agree with the request of colleagues Kirchgatterer and Pfurtscheller on the reform of the European Court of Human Rights. Above all, we are concerned that the right of individual complaint is not restricted by new restrictions on access; I also agree with the remarks made by my previous speaker, which is quite clear to us. On the point raised by Mr Hagen, which has happened in Afghanistan in recent weeks and months and is probably happening at the moment: The situation is that in 2017 terrorists attacked a hospital; they shot around there for seven hours and threw hand grenades into patient beds. The balance sheet is 49 dead. Imagine: You're in the hospital, there are armed people coming and throwing hand grenades into your bed! – This picture is, I think, so inconceivable to us that you have to get deep air to remember what a terror it is. Last Wednesday, there was a terrorist attack in the diplomatic district with now 150 dead and more than 300 seriously injured. By the way, the number of dead had to be revised from first 80 to 150. These are the circumstances under which people live in Afghanistan. Considering that the German Embassy was severely damaged during the last terrorist attack, in which 150 people were killed, one becomes aware that even more diplomats and diplomats, i.e. foreign nationals, are not even safe in Afghanistan of their lives. Cynically, exactly on Wednesday, with the 150 deaths, there was a collective deportation, involving not only Sweden but also our Republic. That is, on this day when a lot of people were murdered, in the middle of Kabul, in the capital, our Republic has also sent people back there. We want there to be a deportation stop to Afghanistan because in these circumstances the deportation can mean death. It is well known that human rights to life are the most fundamental human rights on which all other human rights are built. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Eßl: Do we have to evacuate all of Afghanistan?]] – The question was asked by an ÖVP colleague: Do we have to evacuate Afghanistan? That speaks for itself, which shows how competent this call is, I will not comment on it now. [[Abg. Rädler: But this is not an answer!]] I believe that many of us are not so cynical that we want people to be willing and knowingly moved to death. [[Abg. Eßl: That's not true!]] I therefore call on you to stop these deportations immediately and see if the situation will change over the next few months. In such conditions, however, to move to death, cannot be the principle of a democratic republic and a rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18512	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18595	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18613	Madam President. Federal Minister! The European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights are probably the central achievements of Europe after the Second World War and after the atrocities of the Second World War. An essential part of this is the right of individual complaint, so that, as an individual, I have the opportunity to go to the European Court of Human Rights and to draw attention to human rights violations after the national appeal has been exhausted. It is precisely at a time like this, when Member States of the Council of Europe, such as Turkey for example, have become increasingly authoritarian regimes, or have already arrived there, more important than ever, that people from Turkey also have the opportunity to take action against human rights violations by the Turkish State before the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, the EGMR is faced with an incredible flood of individual complaints, and there are appropriate reform processes that should at least be supported. However, it is also clear that this should not ultimately be due to the citizens. As important as it is that everyone here vote in favour of the individual right of complaint, it is absurd, as has been dealt with in the Human Rights Committee with another request that has come from us NEOS. This request is about finally implementing the individual right of complaint in connection with the Convention on Children's Rights in Austria. We have heard the Minister's plea as to how important the individual complaint to the EGMR is, and all the parties will now agree to it. That this is obviously not so important in connection with children's rights and that we do not want to give children the right to bring individual complaints when they are violated in their children's rights is quite absurd. Especially today, when British Prime Minister Theresa May says that she wants to limit individual human rights or even withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights, or announces that Hungary will no longer implement some of the ECHR's judgments in the future if it does not fit, it is important that Austria proceeds and clearly states that the European Court of Human Rights always It will have validity and respect its judgments and must also be implemented, not only when it is politically appropriate. Finally, very briefly on the Greens' request: I also see that the security situation in Afghanistan is getting worse from day to day, and I also think that this is somewhat difficult and we must carry out a new assessment of the security situation. I do not really need to assess Mr Eßl's call for tender or what Mr Hagen did before, because someone who says we should evacuate Afghanistan now disqualifies himself, in my opinion. What I'm not going to do is call for a collective deportation stop. I think that we will continue to find the results with the individual case tests. We agree with the Greens that there must be a clear new review of the security situation. In particular, I found the deportations on the day of the attack in Kabul somewhat difficult and very dangerous. Nevertheless, I believe that with a single case test, as it is currently being carried out, we will continue to find the results. However, I also believe that there is a need for a general re-evaluation of the security situation because it deteriorates from day to day.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18664	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18686	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who live in Europe, who were born in Europe, are quite well protected by civil rights. Of course, special protection is the European Convention on Human Rights. If a citizen of Europe in his country of origin, for example in Austria, has used all the legal possibilities with a complaint, then there is still hope, even if something was answered in the country, because he can go to the European Court of Human Rights, where the cases of the Convention are looked at accordingly and a judgment is taken. European citizens, when they do this, are specifically concerned with the right of care of their parents. They are about too long procedural periods and about the protection of property. For example, it is about respect for private life, but also about freedom of expression and sometimes also about the prohibition of torture. Individual right of appeal has been greatly enhanced in Europe since 1994, and it simply guarantees Europeans an additional opportunity to come to terms with their right to human rights. That is to say, this right should be fully preserved and no restrictions on access should be imposed. In 2016, almost 56 000 complaints were registered. In the first 50 years of the European Court of Human Rights, 299 cases from Austria have been decided positively, i.e. the Republic of Austria has responded and, in accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice, it is necessary to give individual rights to correct the position of the Republic. Another interesting number to 2016: The Member States, the signatorys of the European Convention on Human Rights, which was most often condemned, were – that is little surprising – Turkey and Ukraine. These two states present the list of the most frequently convicted. The individual right of appeal, which is an important pillar of civil rights and human rights in Europe, must continue to exist in full. To this end, Let's call ourselves a National Council today. No restriction of the right of appeal may be made in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18734	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the resolution on the reform of the European Court of Human Rights annexed to the Committee's report in 1650. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 205.) We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Korun, colleagues on deportation to Afghanistan. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, therefore rejected. [[Call at the FPÖ: Some learn nothing, want to save the whole world! Unbelievable!]] [[16:53:04]] 7. Point report of the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 2167/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues with regard to the presentation of people with disabilities in the media (1651 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18792	In this way we reach the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18819	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The application deals with the presentation of people with disabilities in the media and calls on the Federal Government to implement the measures set out in the NAP and prepared in a working group. In particular, the lives of people with disabilities are to be presented in a factual and balanced manner. If you look at the reports in some media, you can see that we are still very, very far away from them. It is still spoken of or written that people with disabilities are tied to the wheelchair, that they are deaf or that they bravely master their lives. These statements reduce these people to their disability. They are presented as suffering or in need of help, or in contrast as heroes and heroes, and the, ladies and gentlemen, simply in no way corresponds to the lives of people with disabilities. This is extremely discriminatory, and it also prevents inclusion, because these images, which are brought into the media, also influence our consciousness a little and form our consciousness. They do so, above all, because we are far away from an inclusive society. Why are we far away? – Because there are still far too few contact points between people with disabilities and people with no disabilities. People with disabilities often live in a parallel world from school. They learn differently, they live differently, and they also work differently, in special schools, in workshops or in employment therapy facilities. That is why the media have a very special responsibility in reporting, as I believe, and also a very special task of helping to ensure that people with disabilities are not reduced to their disability, but that we also look at their strengths. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This request goes in the direction that we should implement the concerns set out in the NAP. It is also intended to draw attention to the strengths of people with disabilities. Maria Pernegger, on behalf of the BMASK, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Radio and Telekom Regulatory GmbH, has prepared a study that has also clearly shown that exactly what I have previously addressed is still fully implemented in the media. I am convinced that looking at people with disabilities will change if this study is taken seriously. I also hope that reporting will be another, because I am convinced that it does not happen with evil intention, but often out of ignorance. If we all point out this, we will also be able to change the view of people with disabilities in the media. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My last point is the election to the ORF Public Council: Minister Drozda was addressed in the Human Rights Committee and has assured him that he will work to ensure that people, people with disabilities, representatives of the people with disabilities are also personally affected. He will take care of it, and I would like to thank you very much, Minister. I think it's high time. We will also vote in favour of Mr Jarmer's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18879	Mr Huainigg spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18901	Madam President. Minister! High house! You always read and hear from people who are tied to the wheelchair – it's not me, and if I were, you'd have to get the police. It is also often read by deaf people. Helene Jarmer is deaf, but she speaks in her language, the sign language, of muteness, so there can be no speech. There are a lot of prejudices and images that have manifested themselves, and it is important to create an awareness of it. I welcome the initiative of the Federal Chancellery to set up the website www.barrierefreigemediae.at. This is really a very good page for becoming journalists, but you can also find best-practice examples there or for example how to really photograph to stay at the same level. I hope this page is often used. Ladies and gentlemen! One important issue for me is that the ORF, who has a public service mission, is also consciously taking action here. Of course, some things have already happened: In the direction of subtitles, it has improved, and this is mainly due to a person, Sissy Mayerhoffer, who has set impulses there. But you have to move on, and it starts with the fact that a self-representation at the ORF has to be really disabled. The current representative of the disabled in the ORF-Publikumsrat is not, he was appointed by the Federal Chancellery. That is why we also support Helene Jarmer's proposal and initiative that the next self-representative to the ORF should be really disabled. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Another point is that journalists with disabilities should also work at ORF. At the moment, the ORF does not fulfil the recruitment obligation, which begins with the admission procedure, the assessment, which should also be barrier-free. The third point is light in the dark. There have also been some things, but only the title already reveals a lot about the style: Those in the light who give, and those in the dark, these are the people with disabilities. There must be a trend change, a paradigm change. An example is the action man in Germany. There really people with disabilities are also involved in the editorial work and are involved in their interests, which are then also expressed in the media. This is a question of human dignity, as it must be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18946	The next item is Mrs Steger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e18967	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have once again a glamour of an application on the agenda, and that is not exactly what the content is, because it is perfectly correct and also useful. This joint proposal by SPÖ and ÖVP deals with the presentation of people with disabilities in the media. This will provide useful measures, such as the fact that the lives of people with disabilities in all its aspects in the media are to be presented in an objective and balanced manner, that the number of consignments accessible to them should be increased, or that their own productions should be accessible from the outset. Another goal is, for example, to promote films about and about people with disabilities and much more. In terms of content, as has been said, these are all welcome things that will naturally get our support, because it is and will always be of great importance for the FPÖ that people with disabilities can lead a self-determined life in dignity and can be fully part of our society. This includes, of course, the presentation in the media, especially – and my previous speaker mentioned it – with regard to a public-law channels such as the ORF financed by the taxpayer. This is, of course, one of his tasks. Let us return to the request: Why is this request a glamour? – Quite simply because SPÖ and ÖVP do nothing but once again give themselves a job assignment. All these are not new demands or measures – no, they all have been there for a very long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this proposal, SPÖ and ÖVP specifically call for the implementation of the National Action Plan to be disabled. This is the strategy of the Austrian Federal Government on the implementation of the UN Disability Convention, and this National Action Plan was already adopted on 24 March. Adopted by the Council of Ministers on 12 July 2012. I repeat: In 2012, ministers have already decided to implement all these measures and have also drawn up and developed a concrete plan to implement them. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I am already wondering why you are coming now with this request. Why has all this not yet been implemented? Now go here and order your own government members, your party friends, to implement what the Council of Ministers decided five years ago. Please explain to me what exactly you want to do with this request! For me, there are exactly three possibilities, three explanations that are in question: Either you are trying to get the agenda full in some form today, which you obviously did not succeed, because the second day was said to have been cancelled. Only as a small marginal note: It might also be useful to allow for a few opposition requests contained in the committees. The FPÖ alone has been in the committees since 2013 around 370 applications, which have been pushed by you for years. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] Or – of course, this is also a possibility – the whole thing is perhaps according to the core’s motto – politics is 95 percent staging – only for perceiving employment. Shortly before the election, a few more requests for statistics will be made, in the sense that we can say that the representatives of the government parties have also made requests. Maybe that's the reason. Or you may actually have noticed at the end of the legislative period that Her own ministers slept for years and were inactive, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. These three possibilities exist. However, it is likely that everything is somehow interconnected. One thing is clear: You know, but you'd probably never admit it!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19041	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19062	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Presentation of people with disabilities in the media: Some of you may remember, at the time when I came to Parliament, some colleagues later told me that many colleagues asked themselves in this House: Is that going to work at all? Can you translate everything? Can you even interpret that, is that possible? We are not talking here about any people, but about parliamentarians who have asked themselves whether this works with the language. One now knows that here are interpreters and interpreters who can do that, who are also present in the media, and it is transparent. I listened well to the presentation on people with disabilities in the media last week, and I like the orientation in this direction in principle, but it takes very clear measures, very clear implementations, very clear legal regulations for that. For example, at the ORF, which has a state contract: For example, the people there have the task of including people with disabilities in the political discussions on television. Often these people will only be seen on television if they have been severely discriminated against or have experienced a great, very bad fate, a serious accident, then you have the opportunity to shine like a light in the dark somehow. But the times to give these people a stage only by light into the dark are over. I expect the ORF to be quite clear – and this is also an advantage for you for the election campaign – that there are people with disabilities who are not only in front of the camera after an accident and are then asked how they are doing. That's not what it's all about. It is about showing people with disabilities, showing how they live their lives, and not only when they have experienced something very difficult, serious. That's important! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] That is what is important and necessary, and I also asked you, Mr Minister, about the ORF Public Council – you can remember. I mean, that's always such a funny thing: There are people who represent their target groups, there are young people who represent young people, women represent women, and for people with disabilities it is once again someone who speaks for people with disabilities. I've heard that person is supposed to step back now, it's coming almost another person. I hope that this is also a person who lives with a disability. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expect your approval from all of you today. If you agree, this is also a step in the right direction, not only for the choice, but for these people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19140	Mrs Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19214	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19235	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The presentation of people with disabilities in the media, of course, also offers the opportunity to take out a concrete example, namely light in the dark: Even if the cliché of compassion has improved, We must say about the title that he suggests that the people with disabilities would be in the dark and need the light of the people who are not disabled. That's an unfavorable shabby. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In 2013, a UN committee of inquiry also explicitly criticized the pictures of people with disabilities shown in Austria and said that these were images that had actually disappeared from the media and had to be overcome in the 1960s. As a person with disabilities, one is described as being a donor and not being equal on a level with all others. If the message is so on this pitiful track, then it looks as if the person is the one who absolutely needs our compassion; however, these people don't feel that way. Of course, it also shows the dilemma of a donation organization. Indeed, it is possible to get more money if one is to arouse compassion than to show happy, self-secure and well-integrated people with disabilities. But there are also positive examples, and there is an example on German television. There used to be an initiative called “Action Anxious Child”, now it’s no longer a concerned child, now it’s called “Action Man”. This should be addressed: from help to partnership and from consideration to respect. Then you can achieve a lot. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19277	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19299	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! ==References== In July 2012, the Council of Ministers decided on the National Action Plan on Disability, the Federal Government's strategy for the implementation of the UN Disability Convention. Many of the measures under this National Action Plan have already been implemented. There is also a chapter on the presentation of people with disabilities in the media. A working group noted in its report that media professionals in particular must be aware that the floskels, clichés and negative images they use have an impact on the lives of people with disabilities. Actually, it should be everybody aware, especially journalists, that reports in the media have an impact on our consciousness, our perception. It is primarily an objective, a balanced, a holistic representation. It is not just a matter of removing individual aspects, because barriers to the heads created by the images are to be reduced. A key aspect of this will certainly also be the training and awareness of journalists in this direction. However, it is not only about reporting, but above all about being able to track messages: through subtitles, translations into sign language or the use of light language, which makes it easier for many people to get information, to understand information. Many of the measures in this strategy have already been implemented. The aim of this resolution is to call on the Federal Government to continue its efforts to implement these measures from the National Action Plan, particularly the recommendations on the presentation of barriers to the It is also important that the German Government should pay particular attention to the presentation of people with disabilities, particularly in the field of media support and evaluation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19341	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19362	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Media presentation of people with disabilities, National Action Plan for Disability 2012 to 2020: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is of no use to plan back or forth if the measures contained in this action plan are not or are not implemented too little. Accessibility is very important in every respect, not only in terms of structural measures, but also in terms of work and work. These people often get very hard work, and everything needs to be done to ensure that these people also get work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example: We have at our hospital in Schwarzach a porter who is blind from birth. I'm telling you, he's a genius as far as telephone numbers are concerned. If you don't know any phone numbers, you ask Alois Hettegger, and he tells them. He's better than any phone book or lexicon. He's a phenomenon. These people also need opportunities to carry out their work at the workplace. Further measures under this Action Plan are the gradual increase in the number of accessible consignments of the ORF and other consignments. The design and moderation of the ORF's broadcasts by people with disabilities should be promoted. People or people with disabilities should be encouraged in every respect. This will have to be taken into consideration in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19400	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the resolution relating to the presentation of people with disabilities in the media, annexed to the Committee's report in 1651. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 206.) Debates of the European Parliament Jarmer, colleagues and representatives of people with disabilities in the ORF Public Council: Who agrees? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. (E 207.) [[Congratulation of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[17:19:05]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 366/A(E) by Mr Dr. Marcus Franz, colleagues on the creation of advisory services for unsolicited pregnant women (1637, B.C.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19466	Now we're on the 8th. Agenda item. First of all, Mrs Kitzmüller is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19490	Mr President. Mrs Karmasin! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Mr Marcus Franz's request concerns the creation of advisory centres for unsolicited pregnant women. The aim of the application is to develop conditions in cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family Affairs, in order to ask the countries and to influence them, to set up comprehensive advisory bodies to carry out anonymous consultations there. This is a very welcome and legitimate request and a very good request. This request, like any other request from opposition parties, was initially postponed and ultimately – what a wonder! – once rejected, so that it can be discussed at least once. In this context, however, there is also another very important request, another very important one, which we have already tabled more often and which I would like to make later. This is an important issue, namely the statistical coverage of abortions. This is about: We want to raise these abortions – anonymously, of course – in order to know where we can put the lever in order to be able to advise the young people and the women in need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to put this measure in place in order to be able to act preventively, because we know that the psychological and physical consequences of abortions affect women's health very much. Even if one does not necessarily notice it the same, a few years later it can lead to major problems and health impairments in many women. That's exactly what we want to prevent by asking: Why did these abortions occur? Do we need more information, or what is necessary to use the lever to prevent this? I also thought that, since we are supposed to have the game of free forces here, this will also be a very good request for the ÖVP, which she goes with, especially since Mrs Pfurtscheller and Mr Prinz, too, have already asked for some time to set up a statistics to enable us to start where there is a problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] With regard to our concern, a statement by our wife family minister Karmasin, who also meant that an anonymous statistics would be of interest and importance. In a statement by the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth in October 2015, I would like to quote this here: ‘For the assessment/measurement of the effectiveness of measures to prevent unwanted pregnancies and resulting abortions, such a measure is considered to be very useful.’ In order to ensure that this sensible measure is put in place, I shall now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, give yourself a back here at the end of this period of government, as I would like to call it, yet a useful result! Follow our request, because we have found the following: In the last period of government, 106 opposition requests have been submitted, 89 of which have been repeatedly postponed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Höbart:... compensation!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Take care of your own people!]] [[Calls and calls between Abg. Mr Jarolim and Mr Höbart and Mr Neubauer.]] If the EIA were to go along, at least at the end of this difficult period of government, there would still be a good incentive to work on.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19624	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kitzmüller is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19718	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19740	Mr President. Dear Mrs Karmasin, Federal Minister! High house! Mr Franz has tabled the request – Mrs Kitzmüller has also mentioned it – that there should be a comprehensive network of advice centres for women – I think that is right, we do not need to discuss it – and that there should be the best possible support and professional advice. However, it should be mentioned that there are a total of 380 family advisory services throughout Austria. These can be used at any time. Out of these 380 advisory services, a total of 265 advisory services offer family advice and pregnant women's advice. In 2016 alone, employees held more than 470,000 consultation talks, and that is already a considerable number. In order for women to continue to benefit from this benefit, a total of € 13.1 million for personnel costs was also decided for 2017. This money can, of course, continue to provide good advice in the future. I mean, it's also a very, very important thing to help women. I have experienced it myself, because I have worked for several years in the action live Austrian. This has a branch office in every federal state, and there you not only offer advice, but you also help women get support, often that they get an apartment. Women are often left alone by the partners and also by their own families, often one is helpful to find a job so that it goes up again. The action live Austria is an institution that provides support in many situations of life, so at this point also a warm thank you to all those who are involved in it – these institutions are also very dependent on private donations – and let women get a lot of support, and this quickly and uncomplicated. I mean, that's an important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19777	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19798	Mr President. Mrs Karmasin! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I think there have already been some positions. We will support this request by Mr Marcus Franz, because it is necessary to imagine what a bitter need one is in or what mental pressure often arises when women become unwantedly pregnant and then perhaps decide on an abortion in this panic, which they may then be able to regret in later years, but no longer unblemished. What mental pressure on these women can be seen in some examples: People are sleeping in personal crises and can no longer cope with them because they suffer so much. It is similar to the request made by Mrs Kitzmüller with the abortions. This is, I think, reasonable, because even if it is so, as Mrs Fichtinger has just said, that such excellent consultation takes place – that is right, to congratulate – there is still a great need for action, and that is why we should support these two requests. I am highly motivated because I experienced a lot at this huge event on the weekend – and I said it there with great joy, at the children's playground, at the children's mutilation at the festival in the municipality of Gampern, where the agricultural machinery center Schwarzmayr was opened with tens of thousands of visitors –: If you can experience the joy of these children with the tractors and with this kindergarten that was offered there, you know what valuable treasures for the future we are building here, and I think we must do everything we can and everything we can to solve these problems. Ms. Minister, the non-adjustment of child support to inflation still poses the problem that they still depend by 17 percent on purchasing power. We know very well that the families are investing regionally! This money is best invested: This goes into the regional economy, which is spent on the ground, which is directly effective. We also need to work in this direction. Now on the two motions for resolutions which I would like to make: I do not understand that, although the Upper Austrian family association has also expressed its support for introducing the full four years of retirement allowance periods for mothers who are always rejected for cost reasons. Therefore, the first application has the following content: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be the first motion for a resolution. The second request concerns the annual valorization of family benefits – I think that is the point I have already mentioned in the family allowance – is as follows: Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on ‘Annual Valorisation of Family Benefits’ The Family Committee wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council, which provides for an annual adjustment of the allowance for children, the family allowance, the care allowance and the amount of the allowance for children to the consumer price index.’ I ask for support for these two requests and I should like to thank all the mothers, to all the educators for this great achievement they provide for this Republic. [[Abg. Lueger: And where are the fathers?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19860	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Steinbichler are properly supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e19998	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20020	Mr President. Mrs Karmasin! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller, I cannot give you the right to say that we have never had the request in plenary. We had him in the plenary in 2014, and then he was rejected. [[Call at the FPÖ:This is surprising!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes, either postponed or rejected!]] I would like to return once again to Mr Franz's original request. There is enough advice for unsolicited pregnant women – as my colleague from the ÖVP has already done – to provide only 380 family advisory services. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] If you make the effort and only look at Google once and see how many advice agencies there are on land, landab, which are anonymous, are available 24 hours a day, if even a call for the initial information is sufficient, then, I think, you see that we really have enough opportunity to give women the necessary information. Also the second reason in the request, namely that the birth rate is far too low, I can depress, because we have a further 3.9 percent since 2016 and are now almost at the level we have had in the 1980s and 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, there are various reasons for abortion, and it has simply been researched in national and international studies why this is so. In one of them – the Institute for Family Research has done it – is the following: The decision to a child has “a very personal dimension on which family policy, at least monetary, cannot influence. ” Really crucial for whether I decide as a woman to have a child or not are, in part, quite different points Is my family planning complete? [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Schimanek]] Do I have any relationship problems? Do I have violent problems in the relationship? Do I have too little household income? Am I not done with my training yet? Am I perhaps so satisfied with my workplace that a child is not fit into my life planning right now? – This too must be taken into account. I mean, there's already been enough research in studies and the advice is the environment. We can expand the consultation, and we can also do something in prevention by continuing to train educators, providing quality teaching materials and then simply offering low-cost contraceptions, or also preventions for health care to help people. In short, on the three applications submitted: With regard to the colleague Kitzmüller, who refers to Germany, where there is an obligation to consult: Yes, the number of abortions has decreased by 0.5 percent, but I would also like to say that 96 percent of women who have opted for a abortion have held consultation talks. [[Call the FPÖ:Immerhin!]] We already have enough knowledge of the two other requests — those of Mr Steinbichler — from the family committees, and we will not give them any consent either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20092	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20113	Mr President. Mrs Karmasin! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of “Creating counsellors for unsolicited pregnant women”: Mrs Lueger, I think that Mr Franz's request is a very important, necessary and urgent request, which is out of question. You can't discuss it away: In Austria, the statistical birth rate is 1.4 children in order to maintain a positive population development, but a birth rate of 2.1 children is necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] A situation that opposes a positive birth balance is the high number of abortions. As we know, there are no statistics on this subject in Austria, unlike Germany. Experts estimate from about 30 000 to 60 000 abortions per year in Austria. This is a lot higher than in Germany, and I think we should do everything we can to reduce this number accordingly with consultations. [[Abg. Praiser: Wrong!]] Unlike in Germany, there are no mandatory waiting times in Austria, no mandatory consultations in a consulting office. - That's it, Mrs. Colleague! In addition to the question, however, this request also states that there are medical needs – I can quote from Mr Franz's motion for a resolution: ‘Except is a medical indication that requires termination of pregnancy.’ This is also reflected in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20164	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20185	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear viewers! The proposal deals with a very sad social policy chapter in Austria, namely the topic of unwanted pregnancies, and I think we all agree in space that every unwanted pregnancy and abortion is too much. I just think – unfortunately, this was not addressed in any speech by my previous speakers – the problem analysis is not one I would share. On the one hand, there are enough advisory bodies in Austria that advise anonymously and well – there are those things that we need to make a decision in order to enable women to make a decision in a very, very difficult phase of life – but that is not there, and that was just mentioned briefly, is to look at the problems and causes of so many abortions in Austria; it is estimated that there are 35 000. I don't think we need more accurate statistics – there are about 17 to 18 abortions per 1,000 women of childbearing potential. I also believe that every abortion is too much because it does not make a woman voluntary and it is a heavy part of a woman's life when it happens and when it becomes necessary. At the same time, Austria is one of the countries in which the least is prevented. Unfortunately, this has not been a single issue yet, but it is very likely that this is the subject of women's popular desire, which can now be read everywhere and which hopefully is more and more communicated. Contraception is obviously still a taboo in Austria. There is a very good study from America, recently appeared, that is, relatively up-to-date, which proves that those women who prevent well, who safely prevent abortions, only reach 5 percent; those women who fail to reliably prevent, occasionally, and do not take it so precisely, are already 43 percent abortions; and those women or men who do not use contraception are 52 percent abortions. What does that tell us? What even more should we think about than about advice agencies that we have enough? – We should think about how we make prevention more manageable and accessible. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] There is hardly a country in Western Europe where prevention is as expensive as in Austria. I would like to see the FPÖ and Collegue Franz – of whom requests always come in the direction of leading statistics of abortions – help us to think more about how we ensure that contraception is not a social question, that not those who are educated and have better education and that they shake the head. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: I'll nod you!]] The FPÖ in Styria has just prevented – and prevented – a very, very important project for education in schools, love*, a project that makes young people and children accessible to sexuality and explains to them their bodies – and that is very, very important. [[general hustle and bustle]] This prevented the FPÖ in Styria. [[Abg. Walter Rauch: A madness!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that, here and at all political levels, one should talk more often and more openly about taboo sexuality, about education – yes, of course, you are involved, Mr. Colleague, instead of exciting yourself – and the causes of abortions, such as that contraceptions in Austria are far too expensive and that free or slow access should be made possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Abg. Singer: We are a family party, we do not prevent!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20304	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20325	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! For abortion in principle, one can be worldlyly different opinions and have different approaches. We have as an extreme people who consider embryos to be cell clusters that do not mean anything, on the other hand we have people like me and very many colleagues here in the high house who see the embryo as people. Looking at it from the biological side, is relatively simple what an embryo is: The embryo is the result of fertilization. Two cells, two germ cells, join together, and in the moment the fertilization has taken place, is the biological man who already contains information about the whole human being. Unfortunately, this goes down again and again in the discussion. The whole human being is in the cygote, which is the fertilized egg in the uterus, already inside. This should always be kept in mind when discussing abortion. This cell will eventually be a baby and a human being, just like we're sitting there. Ronald Reagan has shaped a memorable quote during his presidency, he has said that comically, all the people who are for abortion are already born. I think you should think about it, even if that is a sarcastic opinion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Back to the seriousness of the matter: Absorption always means the destruction of human life, abortion is always annihilation of human life – this fact we must look into the eye, there are no inharmonies, no small speeches, no beautiful speeches – while human life is destroyed. This also means that abortion is never only a medical intervention, as it is often described, especially by the Brussels side. [[Abg. Maurer: She's a medical procedure!]] There's the Netzella and Estrela reports. Members of the European Parliament have met in order to declare abortion a medical intervention, which should be made accessible to all women across Europe without any threshold. I think that this is true cynicism on the part of the European Parliament in times when we talk so much about humanity and humanity. On the other hand, I protest at this point and again and again publicly and officially. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] Let's see what studies – that was briefly addressed by Mr Schwentner – tell us about abortion, medical and psychological studies. Professor Wimmer-Puchinger conducted a study in Vienna many years ago on pregnancy conflicts, which was very extensive. She looked at the first reaction of women to abortion. You hear and marvel: With 13 percent of these women, joy was the immediate response in the notification of pregnancy, and only at 10 percent there was immediate rejection. That's a very interesting result. Only 10 percent reject pregnancy when they hear of it. Of course, more than 50 percent of these women felt fears, and approximately 26 percent were ambivalent according to the study on this report on pregnancy. This means that about 40 percent of women either felt a mixed culture of feelings or even looked forward to the child. That's where I ask society the question: What happens if a woman is the message, she is pregnant, she hears, happy or mixed, and then finally goes to abortion? At this time between the communication on pregnancy and abortion, something happens. You don't do that by the way, just like that, because it's just funny, I'm going to give it to the previous speaker. This is always a difficult decision, we have to assume. But what's wrong? I believe that we can only face this problem if we have a serious, sovereign, proper, standardized and Austrian-wide consultation. I would like to say thank you to the many advisory bodies that do good work – there is no doubt at all about that. But we have little networking, we have few standards on how to do such a preparation or a consultation. We also have few measures or few legislative recommendations that allow women to think in the form of a safety belt. In Germany there is this safety belt of three days think time. I personally believe that this is a very useful and good time, as many others here are, because no one is put under pressure, but an option is opened that you can think in peace, what you really want to do with the child in the belly, whether you may not want to get it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] I therefore believe that in Austria we need mandatory, nationally uniform and standardised advice because it would help us to have more children. This would also help women who, in ambivalent situations, may be able to get pregnant and suffer from postpartum pregnancy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20385	Next: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20403	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you read the title of the application, you might have the suspicion that it is a positive idea. Of course, that's not the case. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: What's wrong with that?]] We did not agree to the request in committee either, for the following reasons: The reason for this is as follows: “A sufficiently high birth rate is of particular importance for the positive economic and social development of society.” Furthermore, “the creation of new options for life” should be promoted. The proposal is perfectly tendent because the actual strategy behind it is to increase the birth rate and not to advise unwanted pregnant women. [[Abg. Neubauer: Remarkable interpretation!]] If you want to offer advice to unsolicited pregnant women, it must be objective and above all open to results. If one offers advice which, however, weighs the welfare of those concerned against other issues, such as, for example, the increase in birth rate, perhaps the associated maintenance of the social system or even the enforcement of religious dogmas, then it is pure hypocrisy that is behind this idea. This is absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of women's policy, health policy and ethics. We have often heard that women do not make a abortion out of jux and toleration, which is a serious decision that may still be taking them all their lives. In Austria, however, they are still able to make this decision, unlike in many other European countries, in EU Member States. This request, however, is to be congratulated on the fact that women who are already in a psychologically difficult situation are in a stressful situation with a consultation that is not really independent from the state and which is not at all open to results, so that they cannot make a wrong decision, which might even endanger the welfare of our welfare state, because we need a high birth rate, as Mr Franz has said. These are not women's policy demands – it's always nice that such ideas come from men – which are quite abstract plan economic governance instruments that are aimed at ultimately turning backwards, a backward social image of the past century here in Parliament, on this stage... [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, Mrs. Colleague! Please!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Sit down! You can't talk anyway! Painful!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Franz.]] You know what, I'm actually talking about: Mr Franz, I always wonder where this comes from. Where does the desire to prescribe women how they have their lives come from? Where does the desire to prescribe women, for example, to have children, come from? [[Abg. Franz: The children too! They always hide that it's about two sides!]] You have already done so, you have accused the German Chancellor Merkel of having no children and perhaps making other decisions, so that there is a connection. I really wonder where the desire comes from to want to dictate women from this reactionary-conservative corner, what they have to feel right and how they have to live their lives. [[Abg. Deimek: Reactionary-conservative! The GDR has been dead for 30 years, and you come up with such approaches!]] What we need in Austria is to allow men and women to make such decisions about their lives, about the future, about their future, about the future of their potential family. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Maurer.]] This freedom can only be guaranteed if you – and I give my colleague Schwentner absolutely right – have at all the information and the opportunity to avoid, if you want to, if you really can emancipate yourself and have the information to make such a decision. To do this, we need access to safe and effective contraception, and especially in Austria, it is not only about – I can say to Mr Schwentner in addition – that practically well-educated women, who deserve much, have access to contraception. On the contrary: In Austria we are more and more confronted with the phenomenon that well-educated women are confronted with misinformation about very well-functioning hormonal contraception, which then causes them to abandon, perhaps with a moon app or whatever you find on the Internet and finally notice that this does not work at all. [[Abg. Hoebart: The Moon app!]] Well, in Austria there is a real lack of education, which is completely independent of the level of education, and I think that is even more terrifying and horrifying than anything else. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] Perhaps here in space one could survey how the knowledge of so many things about the subject of contraception is. I think we're all horrified at the results.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20564	Mrs Karmasin is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20587	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Franz's request, on which we are discussing, sounds quite worthy of discussion at the first moment, but I think we have now understood what is behind it, namely that the discussions that have been called for – which have already been implemented and financed throughout Austria for 40 years – would not have been objective and neutral. You hear and marvel: Obviously women are to be convinced, manipulated, pushed in a direction to carry out an unwanted pregnancy. - On the one hand. Secondly, these advisory services are obviously intended to increase the birth rate. I think we have quite different, much more targeted and above all more family-friendly instruments to increase birth rate. By the way, we have been doing this successfully for two years: We were once again able to increase the birth rate significantly. This, I believe, is not an expression of a changed policy of consulting – in this context – but of the implementation of various family policy, forward-looking instruments. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to draw attention to the very extensive consultations that take place in Austria on family issues, pregnancy and contraception, which have now been held in 380 family advisory offices with around 500 000 advisory talks and investments of around € 13 million per year. It is very important in this context that the consultations are voluntary, that they are neutral, and that they are comprehensively informed about the advantages and disadvantages of abortion. That's good and right. I do not want mandatory deliberations, because, as one knows from consulting practice and science, they are not even targeting, but they are, as far as possible, suspicious of manipulation. So I am glad and convinced that it is right to provide voluntary, objective and neutral advice and, of course, no manipulation. Finally, we should really think about why there are still unwanted pregnancies in Austria, and I would like to support and confirm them all: We certainly need more sexual education in schools, youth-friendly, child-friendly, with extensive explanations, materials and, of course, conversations in education or also in youth work. This is, I believe, the point of approach that we should, if necessary, strengthen, but certainly not the discussions that are well placed and done voluntarily and neutrally.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20631	For the second time, Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20652	Mr President. Minister! Mrs Schwentner, you say you want to know the reasons why not have been prevented and ask for more advice in order to prevent it. This is precisely what my request is for a statistical one. Why are we being driven off? – Because they're ignorant because they don't know how to prevent them, and we want to get started. [[Abg. Schwentner: That's why it takes free contraception and better access to it!]] – That is something else again, that has nothing to do with the request. Free contraception has nothing to do with a statistics. I want to know why a woman, a girl, has become unwantedly pregnant. In Germany there is such a statistics, and it has been concluded that the number of abortions due to the new Enlightenment has declined, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we want! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vavrik.]] We don't want abortion because the women are suffering. They are to be consulted before, and I would like to be able to read from a statistics that the consultation takes place before, and not afterwards, in order to wake up and say: For God's sake, now I'm pregnant, what am I doing? Counselling is always better, and that is exactly what we want to achieve. [[Abg. Schwentner: Contraception is the best!]] – advice and prevention, logically.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20711	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20732	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Time and again, politicians, mainly men, try to remove through the back door and under the pretext of the best and best advice for women, women's rights, self-determination over their own bodies. [[Abg. Franz: Absorption is not a right!]] Mr Franz! You can still disperse your applications or back up, soften or water with any stories, it simply remains the circumcision of women's rights. I can assure you that no matter how much you pack it, we will recognize it and always be vigilant. Access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights must be guaranteed for all women and men – this is our job, and we have not only committed ourselves to this goal in Austria through the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals, but we have been working on it in social democracy for very long and very intensively, also in our extrapartial group, which is here in the house, in the colleagues of the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Greens and the NEOS. So: Access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights must be guaranteed for all women and men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] This means for us in social democracy in concrete sexual education from small on, i.e. right to information, right to information about one's own body, about development, about sexuality – and that is crazy, diverse and colorful as it is – accompanied by experts and educators. Unfortunately, some in Austria still have reservations and very conservative access, but – by the way – ignorance does not protect against pregnancy and, by the way, from sexually transmitted diseases. We are also relying on prevention, which I have already mentioned, and I would like to stress once again: The low level of access to contraception and handling and use must be transparent and clear to all. We also stand without When and But for sexual integrity and self-determination, which includes professional and medical support in all phases. Self-determination through one's own body also means having access to abortions that are designed in such a way that the decision for women is not dependent on the financial background and is possible especially in all public hospitals. There's no such thing as that right now. In conclusion: No woman, Mr Franz, and other colleagues who support this need any stigmatizing advice. There is no need for a prejudice to women from politicians – certainly not! What we, politicians, need – and we stand for – is the best possible framework conditions and professional uncontained companionship when women need them on their own to be able to live themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20777	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1637. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the collection of anonymized statistical data relating to abortions. Who agrees? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on ‘Improved retirement periods per child for childhood’. Who agrees? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who agrees? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:02:13]] 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on procurement practice in the BMI with a focus on digital radio; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/19 series (III-373 and III-373/1646 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on BMI funding and the implementation of the warranty with a focus on Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg – Bunde Serie 2016/22 (III-322/1647 d.B.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the extension of parking management in Vienna – BUND 2017/22 series (III-380/1648 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20881	We come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20907	Mr President. Madam President. High house! If one reads the Court of Auditors' report, then one does not actually come out of the headquake. One finding is the other: incompetence, sluggishing, violation of law and apparently controlled money flows. Ernst Strasser was the initiator and pioneer of a development through which millions of tax money were put into the sand. The subject of blue-light radio or digital radio will fall into the years from 2003. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We remember with shudders the political and financial adventures carried out by the ÖVP together with the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The awards were not carried out as it should actually be, and it is an example of how it should not actually be carried out. For example, some literal quotations from the Court of Auditors report: The Federal Ministry “did not have a complete and reliable overview of its procurement volume. ” ‘More than half of the procurement cases audited by the RH – Court of Auditors – ‘[...] showed shortcomings in compliance with internal requirements, in particular lack of comparative offers and price fairness checks and insufficient documentation’. There were also unacceptable direct awards. “A former chief of cabinets operating as an advisor for the BMI” – I still quote – “was in close contact with key decisions in the procurement procedure in informal discussions with two beekeepers. Order, content and results of the discussions were not documented in the BMI.” ‘The RH was exemplary in 12 cases with higher order values, where it identified the following shortcomings: lack of comparative offers, inadmissible direct award, choice of wrong procurement procedure, lack of or non-comprehensible contract value, start of performance before written contract, inappropriate contract design and poor performance documentation and calculation.’ Usually one is very narrow when such an offense is detected – not the BMI. This claims that the award procedure as a whole has been carried out correctly and that a greater focus will be placed on a detailed file documentation in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, these reactions confirm the conscious approach in the Causa blue-light radio or digital radio. Each incoming WU student knows that a high priority must be given to awarding the punitive documentation – the experts of the BMI rather not. What benefits will it be to taxpayers if the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been partially implemented afterwards? The damage has already been done. Finally, I can still note that the Austrian digital radio is still not working until June 2017. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20971	Mr Gahr is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e20992	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has reviewed the execution of the Schubhaft with a focus on Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg. The examination period was between 2010 and 2015, and in total there were three areas of criticism. On the one hand: uneconomic, too high costs, utilization against zero in April 2015. The second was a sharp criticism of the tender procedure. And thirdly, the Court of Auditors has recommended other uses and replanning of the police centre. In the meantime, the 25 recommendations of the Court of Auditors 20 have been implemented, two recommendations have been partially implemented and three recommendations have actually been rejected by the BMI. At the police stop centre, there is a need for ongoing adaptations to the requirements, there is a ongoing review by the BMI. The costs are known; there were, of course, variations in the allocations, and therefore these costs are not meaningful in detail. In the meantime, of course, the situation and the picture of refugees and the flood of asylum procedures have changed considerably. Since 2017, the controversial and criticised Anhaltzentrum has been well filled in Vorderenberg. We used to have loads of ten inmates, currently there are 160 inmates at 193 available places, so the project is actually working in practice, which has simply brought the situation with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Exploitation is given, the community is behind this secondary centre, and acceptance in the population is also given. Austria has to adapt to the situation in this area, I believe. The situation changes every day, and I think we need this infrastructure in the field of thrust, which is why the BMI has responded to the demands on the one hand, but on the other hand we must not do it negligently, but we should stand for this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21035	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21057	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Yes, ÖVP: Ladies and gentlemen, it's the Rean – that's the only way to say that. [[Call the ÖVP: What?]] It's a disaster you've performed there and you're still performing. It starts once with the fact that Fekter, then Minister of the Interior, places a thrust in the middle of the beautiful mountain world of the beautiful Styria. [[Abg. Grill: Go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] To do this, you have to look at the infrastructure there, you have to look at the streets leading there. Even if this is so much somewhere in the heart of Austria, the trails are much longer and more difficult than you would have built the Schubhaftzentrum where you would have used it, that is, near Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Abg. Ridler: Saualm!]] The fact is that at the time the decision was taken, around 80 percent of the decisions were taken in the Vienna area. [[Abg. Rädler: On the Saualm!]] Now one has taken these suspenders across Austria to the beautiful Styria, in inhospitable ways, and has made a mayor a joy that has meant he will be elected again for a few cleaning women's posts the next time. That's how it was. Well, and here, the Court of Auditors has also found it: A maximum of 18 percent of the utilization was given with drawers, and from April 2015, the corresponding occupation tends to be against zero. This is something that surprises me even more, because from this point of view, at the latest from October onwards, this centre should have had at least ten times the number of illegal migrants who have stormed our borders; and our police have only watched more because the government was unable to act. In principle, then, this is from the very beginning a completely wrong project, as far as the purpose is concerned, but not only in terms of purpose, but also in terms of the economic side. One has entered into a lease with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft and has entered into a cancellation of 33 years. A monthly flat rate fee is agreed with the municipality regardless of the occupation of the Anhaltezentrum, which amounts to €461,000 per month and in which you have no possibility of using et cetera in corrective terms. The We have to question the whole thing, and we have done so in the Committee. The official responsible then meant that it had been calculated on the basis of the costs that officials would cause, they would run it there, or they would do the business there. – Well, if this is the case, then it obviously doesn’t make sense, because if you order a private company, then you want to act flexibly in the design of personnel, also from the costs. One cannot fix a flat-rate amount out of an official's mentality, and this can be done again for 15 years. – This is actually all completely crazy. So that's the economic side. The Court of Auditors has also noted that – and this is also quite exciting – 33 612 foreign transfers were documented in the period 2010 to 2014. At the same time, more than 39 000 people – that is, much more – were not aware of whether they actually left the country despite a decisive decision. – That’s what I’m really asking myself: What's the ÖVP-led Ministry of Interior doing? Is that what you're looking at? It is not even documented accordingly, it is not seen whether those who have to go – legally – really go home? Who's the right-winger? That's what I'm really wondering: Is it he who abuses the law, or he who looks at it, as you do all the time? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I conclude with what I said in the beginning: The whole thing is a disaster – but that's no wonder if you run a ministry for decades. It's gonna be time for a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21148	The next item is Mrs Dr Moser's report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21170	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The presentation of my previous speakers speaks volumes. Thankfully, we have received a very critical report from the Court of Auditors on the establishment of the Schubhaftzentrum in Vorderenberg. It already starts specifically dubios: There is no documented project task, there is no project documentation. This non-documentation is repeated in numerous Court reports, particularly on the activity of the Ministry of the Interior. The same applies also in connection with the Eurofighters – not documented! We will always be suspicious if something is not documented, because it usually turns out that first of all the costs are exorbitantly high and second, the concrete resolution and the concrete awarding of highly dubios – and all this is under control at the expense of taxpayers. First of all, the decision on the location: The Court of Auditors criticises, in the first place, that the displaced persons are held far away from the actual starting places of the deportations, or are kept, we say so. The Court of Auditors also criticises that there were no budgetary ceilings in the design of this project at all, and more or less has been planned in the blue. The Court of Auditors also criticises that there are no life-cycle and cost-effective calculations – also planned in the blue and incorporated into the green. The Court of Auditors highly criticises the annual costs. On the one hand we have rental payments at 33 years, per year 2.5 million €. The construction costs are practically double-paid – for the 33 years – by the rents. The BIG rubs its hands, the BIG makes the business – the Ministry of the Interior pays. The taxpayers are asked to check out a project that is really completely uneconomic, completely displaced, because the Ministry of the Interior has somehow put it in the head. Now comes the Cardinal's question: In whose favor, who is the profiteer? Here we come to the next criticism of the Court of Auditors: In practice, the municipality of Vorsenberg has been interconnected for the award to the service provider. A push centre must also be cared for, there are also employees and so on. But this does not do either the Ministry of the Interior itself or the community – no, it is forgiven. And there really is – how to say? – smell the fish from the head because: The municipality of Vorderenberg has drawn up a tender so closely formulated that the eligibility criteria were practically tailored to a provider. A provider, G4S, was able to meet these international requirements that were necessary for the operation, for the care. That was completely tailored. The Clou is that the Court of Auditors cannot examine this awarding system or this awarding process at all because the municipality of Vorderenberg has less than 10 000 inhabitants and therefore does not fall within the audit competence of the Court of Auditors – a perfide game in favour of an exclusive provider. There's the Cardinal's question: Why did the Federal Ministry of the Interior – which could also not explain to us Minister Sobotka in any way – interconnected the municipality of Vorderenberg and paid this €70 000 for it to take over this task? The Federal Ministry itself washes its hands half in innocence, because the awarding has done the municipality of Vorsenberg. However, the fact that the municipality has formulated the tender more or less at the push of a button, at the command and at the request of the BMI is, please, also a result of this audit of the Court of Auditors, as it is available to us and as we were able to discuss it. Then there is the crucial question, the cost question, in the room, and the previous speakers have already pointed out: Fornberg is expensive. The detention centre costs 165 € a day, in Salzburg costs the same around 50 €. So Forderenberg is three times as expensive as the prison. What the costs for the day of detention It is only possible to compare it with the Rostauer countries. A day of detention costs 207 € in the Roßauer Lände. What, do you think, costs that in Vorsenberg? – 834 €, i.e. about four times. For example, the Federal Ministry of the Interior operates with tax funds from Austrians, while we certainly need more money for security measures. However, we do not need this waste disposal industry at push-over centres which are displaced, which in their conception have turned out to be partly false and which become the business of an exclusive provider, where one does not know how it comes to this order and which human links and connections are there again. Unfortunately, the public prosecutor's office is probably not yet able to operate in this respect, for in the contract law the complainant is the one who has been maneuvered; there was no second provider, and therefore there is no complainant. This is a problem, we often have in the field of procurement. Madam President, Mr Kraker, the Minister is not present, because he still owes us numerous answers in committee. He really shone through even gross ignorance – in the negative sense. Madam President, it might not be bad if a follow-up report came. I always rely on your follow-up and also on the Court of Auditors' routine. I would rather reject this report because of the facts he describes, but the examination was so excellent that we will agree with this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21233	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21251	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Thank you very much for this test report to the Schubhaftzentrum Fürdenberg. This report shows for a number of times – as well as other reports and media coverage already in advance and over the past years – what a bizarre project that is as a whole, from questionable award procedures to contract design, including this long-term non-commitment and the immense costs to lack of legal protection. We've heard all this a lot. The essential question that remains and that no one has yet answered us is: Why did this kind of forgiveness come about? That's not what anyone's been trying to do. Who, then, comes to the idea of concluding a 33-year rental contract, with a ban on termination, in which you pay € 2.6 million a year? – Since this was about the Ministry of the Interior led by the ÖVP, the former economic party, it is known why it is only the former economic party, if so much expertise is not there. Who comes up with the idea of paying a fixed monthly fee of € 460 000, regardless of how many visitors are in this drawering center, that is, whether two or as many as now, since the amount of layers is correspondingly high and it is also used up? You can't usually come up with such an idea! How can it be that such a flat-rate amount is determined without being documented accordingly and without being able to prove how you actually came to this calculation? How could it be that there were no analyses in advance of the possible evolution of the numbers of the workers or the suitability of the site? And how can it ever be? be that one makes such an opaque award procedure, in which, if one looks at the tender documents, one already knows in advance exactly who will receive the award because it has clearly been written out in this way? Mrs Moser has already said: The big question behind this is who benefits from it. In this case, a company has benefited, namely G4S, which was the only one who could offer at all. This is particularly exciting, of course, because you know that one of the managing directors of G4S, at least at the time, was someone who previously worked in the cabinet of the Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP. The idea to give the municipality of Vorderenberg the call for tender and to say: You are writing out!, of course, is an extremely bizarre bypass, especially if you know – you know, once you have written such a tender document yourself – that such a small community, if at all, only has the possibility to write such tender documents at extremely high cost. Of course, this suggests that the Ministry of the Interior has remedied and has clearly stated how such a tender document looks. The Minister of the Interior has said in the Committee that, of course, a punctual audit, which he has just said about the Court of Auditors' report, cannot say anything about the long-term meaning of the project. This is particularly bizarre because the Court of Auditors in particular criticises the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has not been examined in advance, what the long-term meaning of this project looks like. The cat bites a little in the tail if I still criticize it after that. Of course, it is nice that these recommendations have been largely implemented and the others are still being implemented, but the question that still stands in the room and that no one has yet been able to answer by the ÖVP or the Ministry of the Interior is: How did such a call come about? This is not the only call for proposals, which in Austria, we say, are being dealt with in a situational fashion with the Federal Procurement Act. We always have the problem that in the end, of course, only one such award procedure can fight, which is also affected by it, because it has not received the award. If there was no one, because in advance it was so beautifully written out that it was clear that only one could offer anyway, then no one will take action against it. Yes, the thrusting center is now used accordingly, at least you can see it positively from the economy. However, it remains the task of the BMI to renegotiate these contracts that, if there is no corresponding burden in the future, one will of course have the opportunity to change this absurd lump sum of €460 000 per month, regardless of how many people sit there. The BMI has long been required to renegotiate and also to renegotiate with the municipality of Vorderenberg, so that in the future we can ensure that we do not do what happens so often, unfortunately, when the Federal Procurement Act is applied in Austria: that we simply rave massive tax money. To remember: The basic idea of the contract law, when it was introduced, was precisely that: to take care of the money of taxpayers. The fact that, unfortunately, the opposite happens very often, when the public authority has written out, and one tries to give someone an order in reality is not exactly in the idea of the contract law, and that is the Tax payers in Austria are not reasonable either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21315	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21336	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Vorderenberg's been working on us for a long time. I should like to remind you that the People's Procuratorate has also carried out a special examination and presented this report in 2015. We also discussed this. I don't think you can talk about a show project in Vorsenberg – a show project in Vorsenberg that is because Minister Sobotka has titulated the Vorsenberg Committee as a show project. Compared to other secondary centres, for example in Greece, Vorderenberg is a demonstration project. I would also like to remind and repeat that here, because, as I said, it is certainly not a demonstration project. It is neither economic nor economical nor useful – this is what the Court of Auditors report says. The costs are massive: € 11 million annually; Contract with the BIG to 33 years, with Vorderenberg to 15 years – not announceable, you can't get out of these contracts, you can't do anything else. The Court of Auditors has also made proposals in this direction; unfortunately, this does not work and does not work. Speaking of a demonstration project, ladies and gentlemen, is already a bit cool. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Schimanek and Moser MPs.]] I would also like to address the Court of Auditors' criticism of the funding of the BMI: Between 2011 and 2014, funding amounting to € 77.8 million was granted, a large part for the support of asylum seekers. There has been no uniform process in the ministry for awarding, billing and controlling the promotions. The Ministry, the Court of Auditors notes, has also failed to impose sanctions on infringements of promoters. We already know from the past how, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior is partly concerned. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly sent us critical reports in recent years. I would like to remind you of one of the rare interviews with the new ÖVP-Obmann: He recently said he wanted a massive tax reduction, a billion-heavy tax reduction, 12 to 14 billion € were floating ahead of him. He would then like to present the exact concept in September. What does he answer to the question of how he wants to reduce the tax rate from 43.4 to 40 percent? – Save promotions, save on promotions. Now I'm curious how to save so much on promotions! He also mentioned red tape reduction and savings in social benefits for foreigners. I am already excited about the future of reports from the Ministry of the Interior by the Court of Auditors, whether we are being told such a bad criticism or whether the whole thing will be turned off and better, as much in the ÖVP, if you can give short faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21390	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21422	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, unfortunately, as dramatic as the previous speakers have said. You have to say: It is. There can really be no mention of a show project. It is the opposite, and I would have believed that the AMA marketing report we discussed last time could hardly be exceeded, but this report does not exceed what we last discussed here. I would like to refer once again to the essential points raised by the previous speakers, on the basis of what was actually defined in the objectives of the project, which the Court of Auditors also worked out. I can quote from the report: ‘The 2008–2013 government programme provided for the establishment of a ‘competence centre’ for drawers with 250 detentions. This should include: enhancing efficiency through a concentrated preparation of foreign police measures. [...] The BMI has been pursuing the following objectives in particular through the new construction of the Sweiezentrum – including what we have already heard – “a cost reduction by re-dimensioning other secondary facilities (closement of police stop centres or their use change), “one-off savings by avoiding the creation of ‘open stations’ for the expansion of thrust” and the ‘concentrated and better coordinated thrust performance’ and so on. If you look at the results, ladies and gentlemen, you have to say that it is really embarrassing how this happened, especially when you look at the facts. I already admit that Minister Sobotka is not directly responsible, that was his predecessor. In turn, I quote – in order not to believe that only the words of the opposition would be spoken – what is stated in the report here: “In January 2014, the Anhaltezentrum was opened in Vorsenberg with 193 detentions. Since then, it has been used up to a maximum of 18% with drawers. From April 2015 onwards, the occupation with drawers tended against zero. In 2015, the BMI had an average of only 52 visitors per day in Austria.” The costs – Mrs. Moser has already mentioned it – were 165 € each for Forderenberg, which means they are twice as high as in the police station in Vienna. ‘In view of the low utilization rate, the actual costs per day of detention in Vorderenberg for the first half of 2015 amounted to more than EUR 800 (834 EUR) per day of detention.’ [[Abg. Moser: Mrs Fekter is supposed to explain this to us!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Secondly, I also quote from the Court of Auditors' report: “On the basis of a comparison of the net amounts, it was calculated that the construction costs” – already mentioned, €24 million – “are the BIG for the Sweiezentrum After about 13 years, Vorderenberg had already been destroyed. What did the ministry do? – It has concluded a contract for 33 years with a cancellation, i.e. the construction costs are refunded to the BIG 2.5 times – simply a scandal! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A super store!]] This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, even from the former coalition partner. [[Abg. Fekter: I didn’t finish!]] [[Abg. Moser: Not?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Finally, you should really look at page 105, Mrs Fekter, you were once Minister of Finance. That's what we're talking about. I can quote again: ‘In the years 2010 to 2014, more than half of the people against whom a decision to end the stay had not been documented that they actually left Austria (2014: 57 %). A total of 39,370 people were alone in the period 2010 to 2014, over which no reliable information existed – despite the existence of a decision to end the stay.” That is, persons who were in custody were not even documented accordingly. That was the time before the refugee stream began. This negligence, this carelessness – and then call for new laws and do not implement the old laws! There's nowhere to do that: 40,000 people who were in custody not to document at all; then to stand up and say, we need new laws, we need more stringent laws and what we do not have to do; and then to be silent with those figures which the Court of Auditors has revealed, than if nothing had been, and then to say: Yeah, would you like to accuse the police officers now?- Oh, my God! This is and remains a failure of the Ministry of the Interior and the present Minister of the Interior and the former Minister of the Interior. Please take note!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21577	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21598	Mr President. Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too can address a few points to the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg. The Court of Auditors recommends that opportunities for alternative use be developed for the Sweiezentrum. Why? – Because at the time of the examination, June to August 2015, there was a very, very low utilization. Obviously, that was a snapshot. For months – and that has already been addressed – it looks different. In the meantime, there is a correspondingly high utilization with about 80 percent. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior has also made it clear in a response to a question that it is not intended to follow the Court of Auditors' recommendation, even so it is written, because proper execution of the detention is not considered possible without the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg. Speaking of recommendations: The Court of Auditors has made 25 recommendations. 20 recommendations have already been implemented by the Ministry of the Interior, two have been partially implemented and three have been written by the Ministry of the Interior that there is no need for implementation. There is also something positive to mention, namely that international delegations see the model Vorderenberg very positively. I should also like to address one point: The Court of Auditors has dealt very intensively with the issue of location, again today. Ladies and gentlemen, some of us are mayors in this House. When it came to a possible location in the debate, none of us applied for it. The front mayor with his citizens has done so. I am also pleased – and I can say that quite openly – that the expected positive effects have occurred for the community, as Mrs Gessl-Ranftl told us in the last plenary session. I would like to close – and I may make it quite aware – with a thanks to the front miners for their willingness to take over the Schubhaftzentrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21643	Next speaker: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21665	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If one has just heard Mr Mayer from the SPÖ, one would like to believe that was a single entry of the ÖVP and there was no government, especially since there is still a red mayor in Vorderenberg. [[Abg. Fekter: A red mayor!]] So like wonder that the SPÖ obviously knew nothing from this deportation centre in Vorsenberg and this decision was obviously made by the ÖVP alone – but one disaster after another. It's good that this coalition is about to end. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Meanwhile, they show each other how it has worked in this coalition over the last ten years. I would like to say a few words on the subject of procurement in the Ministry of the Interior, in relation to digital radio. The Court of Auditors has criticised procurement, and this has now been a follow-up review, in which it has come to the realization that the points have essentially been implemented. What scares me, however, is – and this also shows how this government works and what the security of the people in Austria is worth – how long you need to implement a really sensible project. The digital radio already has the sense of giving the blue light organizations an opportunity to communicate in areas such as in the mountains – Tyrol, Vorarlberg, Carinthia, wherever – so that they can be reached there when people are in distress. And this takes place from 2004 to 2016 – and until 2016 this system has only been implemented in three federal states! So this is really sad, how little the government, this former government, as it has called Mr Mayer, is worth the security of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I now see that the goal is to implement the system at least in eight federal states by 2018, it scares me when I know that in Carinthia the red Mr. Kaiser, deputy to Mr. Kern, is still persistently refusing to do something for the safety of our people in Carinthia. Two requests for urgency in the Landtag were rejected, and the Minister of the Interior also had to tell us on the last committee that there is no agreement with Carinthia – so it is a pity that the head of state is there against the security of the Carinthian population. If it were a digital connection to Liège, we would probably have had it for a long time. Then there are some things you've done in the meantime: That was the police closure, you broke the federal army, and you destroyed the fire brigades' promotions. - So thank you so much! They are rowing back now, but the Austrian population will not forget it, and you can assume that in the next few months we will all remember what you have done for the safety of our people over the last ten years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the “Kronen Zeitung” and in the “Kurier” one reads that now 10,000 police are over 50 years old, 1 900 police officers are missing, the young police no longer want to go out on the outside, because they have bad equipment and live every day in a situation of danger – and you don’t do anything for this professional group. For this, you will be on the 15th. The invoice was presented October. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's time this government was finally elected. The new Minister of the Interior and – next year – the new head of state of Carinthia have a lot of work ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21726	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Neuroth. – Welcome for the first time at the speaker’s desk!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21748	Mr President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Parking management is a proven instrument worldwide to manage the limited street space available in the city. I can give my first speech on this subject today. I have been working in district policy for many years. ==References====External links== Introduced district, and we have experienced the positive effects of parking: The parking pressure has been reduced, and we have also saved the construction of four large garages. In addition, at the time, the parking space was parked and occupied by commuters from the southern part of Vienna. The place in the public area, which is used by cars, is missing for the environmental association. The environmental association is the walk-in, public transport, cycling. And when we consider that 50 percent of the roads in the city of cars are just five kilometers away, you can say that you can also do this wonderfully by public transport or, for example, by bike. We want to achieve freedom of choice in mobility by parking. The regulation of the parking fee is a very effective steering measure and also results in a climate-friendly reduction of motorised individual traffic. I can point out, for example, that one hour of parking in Vienna costs as much – almost as much – as a tram ticket. This means that freedom of choice in mobility is guaranteed. With this, we are already in climate protection: The parking area management promotes climate protection in the city. This is a third essential point, which is achieved as a steering effect by parking management. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The modal split indicates how – environmentally friendlyly – one moves in the city, and we have set ourselves the goal of reducing mobility by car from 30 percent to 20 percent in the context of the 2025 urban development plan. This is a further way, but we achieve a much better air quality with this and also with the parking space management. And please also bear in mind that by reducing car traffic, we are finally following the reduction of CO2 emissions – a reduction in industry and industry. House fires have already been achieved, but this effect is still being devoured by the exhaust gases of the cars, which are still growing larger cars. We already have a decreasing number of passenger car registrations in Vienna in 20 districts, and that in the case of growing population. In other words, parking management plays an essential role here too. The Court of Auditors has therefore drawn up a report on how the expansion of parking management was implemented in Vienna in 2012. The Court of Auditors has made recommendations to the city of Vienna, which must be implemented together with the National Police Directorate in Vienna. In the first place, he found that the availability of the pitches for the arrants had been improved. The displacement effect in other districts, in the adjacent districts, is obvious and not surprising. The evaluation during the 2012 period was of course difficult, because certain data material and the numbers of available pitches, even the garages and park-and-ride facilities were not available. There was also criticism of the procurement of necessary road signs, but I believe that this is now being improved. We also know this from the districts as regards the extension and decision-making procedures in the districts: Yes, it depends on district policy and does not always run so smoothly. We know of some districts that have a little more resistance and therefore still suffer much from the pressure of the peddlers. The recommendation that, for example, a network of data should be established for mobility with the surrounding states is also welcome and I would like to underline this need. The recommendations to the State Police include in particular those of the cooperation of the Magistrates Departments with the State Police Directorate. There is still some potential for optimization. Finally, it can be found that this report of the Court of Auditors contains very valuable details and evaluation results, which are also very valuable for the extension of parking in Vienna, which is still taking place. In September, for example, the 10. District under car park management, and there are valuable measures that we can then need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21818	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21839	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to deal with that report by the Court of Auditors, which concerns the funding of the BMI itself. The purpose of the review was to assess the organisation of funding, the objectives pursued by the funding, the control of funding and individual national funding projects and the EU-funded funding. The Court of Auditors noted that between 2011 and 2014 the BMI paid grants totalling €77,8 million, with a third coming from EU funds. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors noted that the number of grants granted was not known by the BMI. There were 14 bodies in the BMI responsible for granting the grants. The Court of Auditors also noted critically that there had been no target processes in the entire department and that this would not allow for a uniform settlement of grants. It was only in 2015 that the BMI created a funding strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! This report also receives list of shortcomings related to the promotion of individual projects, including comments on the promotion of the Lauder Business School area. This is about developing and rebuilding a centre of competence for integration. There was a funding amount of €1.5 million. The Court of Auditors has noted that the commitment to support has already been made before a written request for funding had been made that the financing plan did not meet the actual costs of the project, that there had been no objectives and objectives and no evaluation of the project. Federal Minister Sobotka has assured the Committee that 23 recommendations have been implemented by the 29 recommendations of the Court of Auditors, six being implemented. However, he said critically that he had no positive experience with a central grant award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21882	This is what Mrs Le Pen has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21903	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the funding of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior is one of the ministries with the relatively smallest amounts of funding. The € 77.8 million from 2011 to 2014 on average corresponds to about one percent of the Ministry's budget volume, or even below, and I would say that this subordinate has resulted in some areas being really suboptimal to express this once. There was, for example, no sufficient organisational separation between the allocation and the control of the funding. A clear support strategy was neither recognizable nor evaluated at sufficient intervals. The funding was processed by 14 different bodies, which also had a very different amount of work – which on the one hand, provided very different know-how in terms of funding processing, on the other hand, did not ensure a uniform handling of grants. The Court of Auditors also criticised the fact that the request to be made prior to the award of grants was largely lacking in the transparency portal. This led to the fact that, in order to exclude multiple awards, one had to rely solely on the information of the promoters and rely on them. The BMI has received the Court of Auditors' suggestions and, as Mr Hell has already mentioned, has largely implemented them. So there is now a strict separation of awarding and control. There is increased internal coordination and risk-based verification. The 2014 General Framework Directive, as the basis for the grant of federal funding, has also been implemented in the meantime. The evaluation of the 2015 funding strategy, the development of a key number-based controlling and the revision of the funding strategy with the definition of medium-term objectives and indicators are still planned. In summary, a report on the Court of Auditors, which very quickly led to the improvement and professionalization of funding in the ministry, can be said.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21945	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e21967	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my remarks, I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on funding and support practices in the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very much for the very detailed and well-founded report. The Court of Auditors reviewed the proceedings in the Ministry of the Interior concerning funding practices in the years 2011 to 2014. A total of € 77.8 million was allocated to funding, an amount that may be very small at the first moment, but for many people is a very high amount and means a lot of money! This morning, in the current hour, we have been able to learn from an ÖVP collegiate that it is necessary to search through funding and take into account the corresponding red tape options. I think he may have meant the actions in the Ministry of the Interior by his statement. The Court of Auditors has addressed a total of 29 proposals for improvement to the Ministry of the Interior; this is also necessary if one knows that 14 authorities in the Ministry of the Interior have been involved in the promotions and have repeatedly received multiple funding. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the I think he's exploring the situation. This would be very necessary, because it would make it clear that there are a lot of promotions, and they could be stopped. There would also be more transparency. Ladies and gentlemen. Interior Minister Sobotka also said in the Court of Auditors that there are now model contracts and the four-eye principle for funding. – Like that would be something new! This legal requirement has been in place for years, and I would think that the officials in the Ministry of the Interior have to comply with the laws and that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for them. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to call on Minister of the Interior Sobotka to come first at his own door and there to ensure order in his own house. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22004	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22025	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to comment on a point which, in my opinion, was somewhat underdeveloped in the current debate, namely the follow-up review of the Court of Auditors on the awarding practice of the Ministry of the Interior with a focus on digital radio. Hiezu already had a report in 2013 and six recommendations have been fully and partially implemented since then. For example, the proposed strict separation of procurement and procurement was carried out in the Ministry of the Interior and even introduced its own procurement management unit. Furthermore, intensive training courses have also been carried out since 2013 in particular with regard to corruption prevention. The electronic procurement workflow has been introduced since 2013 after a gradual rollout across the region. Furthermore – also positive – the BMI directly supported the internal revision of the management of the department and carried out central plausibility checks on procurement. As far as digital radio itself is concerned, it was mentioned that the Minister in the Committee stressed that in 2019 93 percent of the Austrian federal territory will be provided with digital radio. This 100 percent has already been implemented in Lower Austria, Vienna and in my native Tyrol. In Styria and Burgenland we stand at 99 percent. The agreements already stand with Salzburg, Upper Austria and Vorarlberg. There is no agreement yet with Carinthia – it has also been pointed out. It seems that the country's finances fail. In order to reduce the cost of the digital radio project, the BMI put in place concrete savings measures. Additional agreements with the Tetron consortium requested by the Court of Auditors to participate in any future revenue surpluses are currently in the final negotiations. A total of more than €86 million will be saved through these additional agreements. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, this Court of Auditors report says that the Ministry of the Interior has largely complied with its obligations, that most of these recommendations have been implemented and that we are also on a very good path in the implementation of the digital radio itself. Carinthia still needs action in this regard, and we need a solution. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22071	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22092	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return once again to an important issue, which concerns almost all in the urban area: parking. The expansion of the short-term park zones in 2012 is a success project, which was also assessed by the Court of Auditors in this way. In doing so, not only the professional implementation, but also the great revenue dynamics that resulted from it. However, I think, with a look into the future, one should also point out that parking is primarily a traffic control measure and not an additional de facto tax for the Viennans. In any event, the steering effect in the parking area management of this measure is justified. Today, for example, if you are looking for a parking lot in the vicinity of Parliament or town hall, you will usually find one, and that is a consequence of parking management. The Court of Auditors particularly commends the administrative streamlining which has succeeded in bringing together the two guards into a control body, which has also been followed by a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. A criticism of the Court of Auditors, which I also share fully, concerns the surveys in the area of commuters, since it is not clear how the modal split is designed and what transport the commuters have chosen to Vienna. Unfortunately, this has not been possible with the available data. In any case, it is positive that revenue from the parkingometer tax increased by 73 percent in 2008 to 2014 and was used in accordance with the provisions; € 114 million was spent on the extension of garages and € 610 million for the promotion of public transport. Overall, this is, I think, a positive assessment of this important measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22128	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22150	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with Agenda items 9 to 11, among other things, the report by the Court of Auditors on procurement practice in the BMI with a focus on digital radio. It is true that the preparations for the project to equip all blue-light organisations with a single digital radio network are going down to the 1990s. The Court notes that 80 percent of the recommendations have already been implemented. We all remember that there was a great deal of dust in the use of the irregularities at that time. I would be interested, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, to see what the location is like: Are these calculated according to the actual number or for each federal state separately? You mentioned in your report that there is a relatively large savings potential of about €3 million per year. By 2019, at least 93 percent of the federal territory is expected to be provided with digital radio. Emergency calls are to be bundled and forwarded under point 112. I mean, it's also sad that there's a federal state with Carinthia, which can't in any way contribute to these provisions. We have to take this state with us, no matter what there is for a government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22183	Madam President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Kraker, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me, too, to comment briefly on the reports of the Court of Auditors which are on the agenda today. I thank you for the detailed debate. I will first come to the follow-up review on procurement practice in the BMI with a focus on digital radio. I would like to begin by saying that follow-up checks are very important instruments for the Court of Auditors to follow up implementation Its recommendations are: We are therefore applying this instrumentarium – and this should also be reinforced in the future – especially in the case of important tests, and the awarding practice in the BMI with the focus on digital radio was such a topic. We found that progress was made, and the implementation level was around 80 percent. In particular, as part of its procurement practice, the BMI has now established an electronic procurement workflow throughout the sector, recorded all procurements statistically and based the data on various reports on procurement. The internal revision was directly subject to the supervision of the department management. Trainings were carried out, for example in the field of corruption prevention. There is, of course, a need for improvement in those recommendations that have only been partially implemented, such as in the area of risk management, which would be comprehensive. The focus of the audit was on digital radio, and of course this concerns the question of how far digital radio has already rolled out in Austria. ==References====External links== In January 2017, an agreement was reached, with Carinthia there was still a binding agreement. In order to ensure that a digital public service network can be established as quickly as possible throughout Austria, it would therefore be necessary to force the expansion of digital radio from the Court of Auditors' point of view and also to enter into a binding agreement with Carinthia. The Court of Auditors has recommended in its preliminary report that there be a reduction in costs. This was done insofar as from January 2016 the BMI carried out network management as an adjustment itself. The full economic benefits have not yet been achieved. Not implemented was the Court of Auditors’ recommendation to calculate the deductions for location information according to the actual number. In doing so, the BMI waived the potential under-expenditure of around €255 000 per month and around €3 million per year. It is important that the additional agreement we require with the contractor, which should lead to a reduction in remuneration, is actually concluded in time. The next report, which has been discussed here, concerns the BMI's support, and much has already been said about this in the course of the debate. Why is it important to carry out support tests? – At the level of the federal government, there is a total funding volume of around €19 billion in 2014, and it is therefore important for the Court of Auditors to ensure that funding is properly handled and funding purposes are also achieved. The BMI operates essentially sovereign administration, but in the years under review, 2011 to 2014, €77 million was spent on funding. A functioning funding process is important here. Firstly, it is about creating a support strategy based on support programmes. Secondly, there were no funding strategies in the BMI by 2015 and no funding programmes outside of EU funding. It is also important to concentrate funding within a department in a few places, so that funding is carried out in a uniform manner. It is also important to establish quantifiable objectives, and it is essential to establish procedures for funding, to develop procedures for awarding, billing and controlling funding. mechanisms to avoid unwanted multiple promotions are equally relevant – as not everywhere the necessary queries have been carried out – and the establishment of a functioning internal control system. I come to the next item on the agenda, which concerns the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg. There was already a project assignment from the BMI in 2005: The aim was to examine the possible outsourcing of the tasks of the exercise and to achieve a human rights-compliant execution of the thrust. The project was confined from the beginning to the search for a location for a new Anhaltezentrum. As early as 2007, the BMI decided to build a new building and concluded a corresponding planning agreement with the BIG. The decision for Vorderenberg was not based on strategic and economic planning, the choice of the site was also due to an initiative by the municipality of Vorderenberg after several projects failed. At the end of 2010, at the beginning of 2011, the BMI and the BIG then concluded a lease contract for an indefinite period, and what is of course striking is the termination of 33 years. The rent charges the BMI annually with a total cost of around €2.66 million, and the total cost of the production amounted to €24 million. The construction of the BIG took place in 2012 and the opening was in 2014. In April 2013, the BMI signed a contract with the municipality of Vorderenberg on the operation of the Anhaltezentrum. There was a termination of 15 years from the BMI and thus also long-term ties. The monthly flat rate amounted to approximately €461,000, regardless of actual occupancy, which was then slightly modified and reduced by up to €9 700. This was contrary to the principles of economic efficiency and effectiveness. In the Court's view, the project documentation was inadequate, and the project was not followed by an implementation order. For the operation, the municipality commissioned a private security service provider. The Court of Auditors is not responsible for the examination of this award procedure due to the lack of audit capacity for the municipality of Vorsenberg. The capacity in Vorderenberg is 193 prisons – this is almost four times the number of persons averaged in 2015 per day throughout the federal territory. The cost of a detention site with around 165 € per day is more than three times as high as in Salzburg with accepted full utilization. In the Court of Auditors, there was a willingness to implement it by the Federal Minister for the Interior. We hope that the utilization figures will improve, and to check that, we will also carry out a follow-up review, because that is what we think is important. I am also grateful for the statements on parking in Vienna, and I can only say that the majority of the recommendations in this report are addressed to the city of Vienna. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22287	Thank you very much, Madam President. No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals and which will take some time. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-373 and III-373 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Let us now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-322 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-380 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:14:47]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e22363	We shall now proceed to the votes on 59 requests for deadlines, each with a deadline for reporting up to 27. ==References== I shall be able to vote on each application for a time limit, by committee, in the order of application, with the name of the applicants, the number and the applicant of the motion for an initiative or a resolution in question, as well as the description of the addition by letter. Firstly, we come to the requests for deadlines for the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs: I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl on Amendment 911/A(E) tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, Annex E. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Let me now vote on Mr Neubauer's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 1175/A(E) by Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, Supplement F. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm on the 1662/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Peter Wurm, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Committee on Foreign Policy: First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache on 1875/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, and Mr H. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on Mr Hübner's motion for a time limit on Amendment No 1799/A(E) tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, Supplement I. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to a deadline proposal concerning the Budget Committee: I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller on Amendment No 9/A by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, Supplement J. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – I am surprised that the request is rejected. We now come to the deadline proposals concerning the Family Committee: I shall immediately vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller on Amendment No 1224/A(E) by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, addenda K to L. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 797/A(E) by Mr Kitzmüller, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Supplement M. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. We now come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Financial Committee: First of all, I should like to vote on Mr Strache's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 443/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, Annex N. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. Let me now vote on Mr Kickl's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 965/A(E) tabled by Mr Kickl, fellow Members, Annex O. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I would also like to refer to Mr Ing's request for deadlines. Courter on motion 1876/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Mr Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement P. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a time-limit. Mr Schrangl on Amendment No 2107/A(E) by Mr Mag. Schrangl, colleagues, Supplement Q. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is surprisingly rejected. I shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache on the 367/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement R. I ask for a sign if I agree. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a time-limit. Mr Haider on Amendment 438/A(E) by Mr Mag. Haider, Colleagues, Supplement S. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. We also come to the deadline for the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology: I should like to refer immediately to Mr MMMag's request for deadlines. Dr. Kassinger on Amendment No 2127/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement T, to the vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We now come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: First of all, I would like to refer to the request for deadlines tabled by the honourable Member. Stefan on motion 79/A by Mr Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement U, to the vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – The request is also rejected. I would also like to refer to Mr Magnette's request for deadlines. Mr Stefan on Amendment No 7/A by Mr Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement V, to the vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We now come to the deadline proposals concerning the Health Committee: First of all, I should like to put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, on Amendment No 414/A(E) by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement W. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Let me now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, on Amendment No 2108/A(E) by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Supplement X. I ask for a sign upon consent. – This request is also rejected. Furthermore, we come to a deadline request concerning the Equal Treatment Committee: I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek on Amendment No 896/A(E) by Mr Schimanek, fellow Members, Supplement Y. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – That is the minority, this request is also rejected. We also come to the requests for deadlines for the Committee on Internal Affairs: First of all, I should like to vote on Mr Strache's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 2129/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, Supplement Z. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I would also like to vote on Mr Strache's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 1683/A by Mr Strache, Mrs AA. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz on Amendment No 1619/A(E) by Mr Mag. Darmann, colleagues, Supplement AB. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz on the 1448/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AC. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, I should like to put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz on Amendment 981/A(E) by Mr Rosenkranz, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We also come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Justice Committee: First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Magnette's request for deadlines. Stefan on motion 1031/A(E) by Mr Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AE. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I would also like to refer to Mr Magnette's request for deadlines. Stefan on motion 1397/A by Mr Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AF, vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a time limit of Dr Rosenkranz on Amendment No 1671/A by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues, Supplement AG. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I would also like to refer to Mr Magnette's request for deadlines. Mr Stefan on Amendment 2048/A(E) by Mr Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AH. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a time-limit. Mr Stefan on motion for a resolution 1953/A(E) by Mr Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AI. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is also rejected. Let me now vote on Mr Lausch's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 552/A(E) by Mr Lausch, fellow Members, Supplement AJ. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch on the 1941/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mrs Lausch, colleagues, and AK supplement. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I would also like to refer to Mr Magnette's request for deadlines. Mr Stefan concerning the motion for a resolution 1589/A by Mr Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AL, Vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – That is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on Mr Klubobmann's motion for a resolution on Amendment No 555/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and others, Annex AM. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – That is rejected. We come to a deadline request concerning the Consumer Protection Committee: I shall immediately vote on this motion for a deadline tabled by Mr Peter Wurm on Amendment No 1665/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, Members of Parliament, Supplement AN. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We come to a deadline request concerning the National Defence Committee: I shall now vote on Mr Bösch's motion for a deadline on Amendment 979/A(E) tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, Annex AO. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry: I first put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach on Amendment No 2164/A by Mr Jannach, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Double Bauer, Mr Colleagues, Mr AP. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall vote on Mr Jannach's motion for a deadline on the motion for a resolution 1807/A(E) by Mr Jannach, colleagues, Supplement AQ. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach on the motion for a resolution relating to Mr Jannach's motion for a resolution (Doc. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We come to a request for a deadline concerning the Court of Auditors Committee: I shall now vote on Mr Zanger's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 253/A(E) tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, Supplement AS. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We come to a deadline request concerning the Committee on Sports: I shall immediately vote on the request for a deadline for Members to vote on Mr Steger's 2001/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Steger, fellow Members, Supplement AT. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Tourism Committee: First of all, I would like to refer to the request for deadlines tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Haider on Amendment 910/A(E) by Mr Mag. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement AU, vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a time-limit. Mr Hauser on motion for a resolution 1943/A(E) by Mr Mag. Mr Hauser, fellow Members, Supplement AV. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is also rejected. We come to the deadline proposals concerning the Environment Committee: First of all, I should like to put to the vote on Mr Walter Rauch's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 1713/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, Annex AW. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walter Rauch on the 1920/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, supplement AX. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. We now come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Committee on Education: First of all, I should like to vote on Mr Mölzer's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 2160/A(E) tabled by Mr Mölzer, fellow Members, Annex AY. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Mölzer on the 2040/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Mölzer, colleagues, and the AZ Supplement. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. We now come to the deadline proposals concerning the Constitutional Committee: First of all, I should like to vote on Mr Lausch's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 175/A by Mr Kunasek, Mr Commissioner, Supplement BA. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. I shall also vote on Mr Klubobmann's request for a deadline on Amendment 117/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, Supplement BB. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the request for a deadline from Mr Magn. Stefan on motion 980/A(E) by Mr Mag. Stefan, colleagues, Supplement BC. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. I shall also vote on Mr Zanger's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 2027/A by Mr Zanger, colleagues, Supplement BD. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request for a deadline by Mr Magn. Stefan on Amendment No 1573/A by Mrs Ing. Mr Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement BE. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We now come to the requests for deadlines concerning the Transport Committee: First of all, I should like to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek on Amendment No 61/A(E) by Mrs Gartelgruber, Mrs BF. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This request is rejected. I would also like to refer to the request for deadlines tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek on Amendment No 174/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement BG. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is also rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek on Amendment No 762/A by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, and Mr BH. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We now come to a deadline request concerning the People's Procuratorate Committee: I shall now vote on Mr Schimanek's motion for a deadline on Amendment No 695/A by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, Supplement BI. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now come to the requests for deadlines for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: First of all, I would like to refer to Mr MMMag's request for deadlines. Dr. Kassinger on motion for a resolution 1277/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, ladies and gentlemen, Supplement BJ, to the vote. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr MMMag's motion for a deadline. Dr. Kassinger on motion 966/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, colleagues, Supplement BK. I'm asking for a sign on consent. – This request is rejected. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we come to a request for a deadline concerning the Scientific Committee: I shall now vote on Mr Karlsböck's motion for a time limit on Amendment No 1030/A(E) by Mr Dr Karlsböck, Members of Parliament, Supplement B.L. I'm asking for a sign on consent. . This amendment is also rejected, ladies and gentlemen. [[19:35:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-06-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00183_d8e23071	In the end, I announce that the self-employed have received applications from 2176/A(E) to 2252/A(E) at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.36 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
