ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e516	I'll open the 170. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies of Hakel, Kucharovich, Dr. Nachbaur, Walter Rauch, Ing. Schellenbacher, Mag. Schrangl, Singer and Mag. Schwentner. [[14:45:55]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e550	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[14:46:06]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e758	I'm telling you, Deputies Dr. Lopatka and Mag. Arbitrators have requested that the Budget Committee on Reporting on the Government Template concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Finance Act, the General Social Security Act and other laws, 1514 of the Supplements, a period of time until 28. ==References====External links== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place immediately. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of this debate. Short debate on the deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e782	We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e816	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister, you asked me yesterday and told me that there would be a deadline request for a government proposal on the ban on speculation. However, the ban on speculation is a matter that is to enter into force only in 2018, so even such a big hurry does not have this matter. The question therefore arises: Why is there this deadline application? – And the answer is quite simple: There is a change in budgetary law in connection with the ban on speculation, but you want to implement your hobby, which you have operated in recent weeks and months, with all force in this house. It is surprising that you have told me that there will be a deadline request, not the Members of this House. What's this about? – It is very simple to see a serious change in budgetary law, according to which the federal financial framework, i.e. medium-term financial planning, including the definition of the budgetary strategy, is to be postponed from spring to autumn. On the other hand, from my point of view, there are a number of serious objections that do not justify a shift in this form. Mr Finanzminister, let us take back your reasons which you have put forward. One of the reasons is: It leads to a simplification of budget planning and the budgetary process in this House. – So, I think we should worry about how to deal with these processes in this House. The second argument you have put forward is that it has become common for the medium-term financial planning to be changed from spring to autumn each time. – Yes, that is a weakness, admittedly, but this weakness is far from justifying a shift from spring to autumn. Why not? – The aim of creating new budgetary law was to create a two-stage budgetary process. In spring, we set the medium-term financial framework, the spending ceilings, but also the budgetary priorities, the objectives and strategies, and in autumn we will implement these priorities with very specific measures. Let us take a look at what the then head of section Steger, together with his deputy, wrote in a comment on this medium-term financial planning: “This will make the Strategy Report, together with the Federal Financial Framework Act, one of the most important budget documents that will be crucial for the political debate on the budget and budget planning.” Yes, it is. But if the process of budgeting is now combined from spring to autumn with the budgeting process for the following year, then the risk of this strategy and target debate is of course great, because we will be approached with information that includes thousands of pages that are unclear and in which we simply do not have the time to discuss in detail all that is then to be presented in autumn. I believe that this process, as it is, should be maintained, but this weakness, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which you mentioned: the government itself must not be removed from its own commitment to planning. That must be the goal and not the disposal of the budgeting process from spring to autumn, which would completely ruin it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, we are going to lose out on this target and strategy debate in a country where we have huge strategic deficits in budgeting. The second point: The new budgetary law has brought with it a number of new co-operation rights, and one of them was the process of budgeting in spring. It has also led to greater transparency, and transparency is one of the objectives that we have even set in the federal constitution. But if this is to be disposed of in autumn, it means that the whole parliamentary debate, including the public debate which is being held here in plenary, but which is also held in committee with a hearing, is simply lost, irrevocable, and that is something we as a Parliament must not let ourselves be offered. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, this de-democraticization, Mr Finanzminister, which you want to introduce in the autumn with the shift, is simply a no-go from our point of view. If we look over borders, we can easily see that there are many countries with medium-term budget plans, but the majority of these countries have their medium-term financial planning in spring rather than autumn, at the same time as the budget is being drawn up. So why do we have to get rid of it? – You must provide better reasons than those you have provided so far. You have told me that we will have time in autumn to discuss in detail all that is being presented. I say no to this because if I look at budget planning, I cannot say so far in the context of budget planning that an extension of the time in autumn will take place by the time we are to be lost in spring. So in total, that means less time, less public, less transparency – that's what you really want. You have made it quite clear in your speech that you have simply and simply said: I don't want to be blackmailed twice a year. Your task, Mr Finanzminister, is to negotiate budgetary priorities with the other ministers, and the government's task is to ensure that what has been negotiated here also lasts over the entire planning period. One thing was clear from the beginning when we made the new budgetary law: If the government does not comply with its own planning, then the whole thing will not work. There are thousands of publications from the OECD, which have said this several times and in many countries. Speaking of OECD, another no-go I have to mention here: We are in the midst of a process of evaluating new budgetary law, and in the midst of this evaluation process, Mr. Finanzminister, you want to make a serious change in this budgetary process which is irreversible. Excuse me, but that's just a shield-citizen's stroke: It is not just that something should be evaluated, which may no longer exist, if this is to be decided in the next plenary session, no, the evaluation is also cost-effective. In the context of the Committee on Budgetary Law, your section shefin has informed us that this evaluation by international organisations would involve costs of €200 000. You are always talking about an expenditure problem, but saving starts in small, Mr. Minister, and what you are doing here is waste of public funds. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister Schel-ling]] Let us wait for this evaluation before making serious changes to the new budgetary law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point to mention is that this shift also means that the counter-financing of the government programme, which has recently been decided, does not have to be presented as a new government programme, because in this government programme there is a fact that funding is to be presented only in autumn. That too is unfit. If you are making a new government programme, Minister of Finance, you are also talking and replying about how you want to finance it. It's about €4 billion for the next four years; from my point of view, it's more like a lower limit. I do not think that it is appropriate for these and the other reasons mentioned to proceed with the final disposal of this budgeting process from spring to autumn. If I could now draw a conclusion, I think that a self-confident Parliament – and I believe that we should act as a self-confident parliament in a nuclear matter in particular – must be firmly opposed to this approach. We must not allow this budgetary law to be amended in such a way as to make amendments which are irrevocable, but which make sense of the current rules. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] I had the opportunity to talk to Mr Steger, who is the father of this household law, yesterday. I caught him in Bahrain, and he told me, Minister of Finance: In view of this project, you can only shake your head. - I can only agree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e956	I should like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Federal Minister, will you still speak in the context of the debate? [[Federal Minister Schelling: No!]] - Thank you, I just wanted to know. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: This is a deadline debate! ... in the committee!]] This is what Mr Krainer has to say. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1007	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For now, this is a ban on speculation, that is, something that is not entirely new, which we have already partially implemented, and above all, it is about the implementation of social security schemes and detailed implementation of the budget of all the institutions of the Republic. However, according to Mr Rossmann's introductory opinion, it is not so much about the actual law that is to be limited here, but about possible changes in budgetary law. That is why I can say a few words. The reason for this request for a deadline is relatively simple: There has been a desire to hold a meeting of the Committee on Budgets to discuss again the question raised by Mr Rossmann. [[Abg. Brosz: It's not brought in!]] We did so in the context of the Committee on Budgetary Law or in budgetary meetings, but we wanted to do so in a committee, and this request for a deadline is intended to convince those groups which have not yet signed the rounding process, as it is said in Parliament's language, that in two days, on 16 May, we shall be voting on the proposal. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. The approach is not new, it has been known for many weeks. [[Abg. Brosz: But not brought in!]] What's that about? – Yes, it is about budgetary law. Mr Rossmann is perfectly right: At the time, when we negotiated this in two stages over many years, we also immediately entered into the law that we want to evaluate it. After five years this will be evaluated, and we are now in this evaluation process. I believe that there is already experience of the new budgetary law in all political groups. There are different opinions about it – that is, what I know, but in all political groups – which one likes better, which one likes less, where one sees need for improvement, where one sees change possibilities. With these many proposals, Mr Rossmann has good ideas about how to do this even better. We have heard these ideas many times in committee, there have also been discussions about them. And there is also the idea of putting together medium-term and annual planning. I think the current system is good. But there are also systems in which one does this at once, and they are not necessarily bad either. The objections which were not wronged were: Now we have this evaluation, so we are waiting for the results of the evaluation before making any major changes to budgetary law. - I can win something from that. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why we have also said on the margins of the Committee on Budgetary Law: Then we could change that for a year. Mr Rossmann said that the new government programme does not make it technically possible to define in just a few weeks the budgetary allocation of measures that will only be negotiated in the months following. Let's do this in autumn! – This is also the case in the government programme. Let us, I say, make a one-time legal arrangement that we have the BFRG this autumn almost only! Let us look at the debate in which we have talked about how we can nevertheless hold a debate on budgetary policy on the basis of the stability report, which will be delivered to Brussels relatively at the same time as the Federal Financial Framework. Let us see if we can conduct this debate in this way and if that does or does not do so in the overall sense, let us do something like a trial run! This is still the subject of discussion. We want to discuss this in two days' time within the Committee on Budgets. In itself, I believe, everyone here in the house does not want to leave the way we have gone in the last few years in budgetary law, namely, to have a consensus as far as possible. I'm hoping for consensus. Consensus always comes from everyone, not everyone gets what he wants, but we have to agree together on a procedure, how the budget is drawn up, how it is dealt with in the house, what reports the government has to make at what times. We must agree on this. And we need to look at ourselves in the course of the evaluation process: How did this year work? Did that make sense or not? What else is there for changes and improvements in budgetary law? At the end of this year, at the beginning of next year, we will be able to take a close look at this, and we will be able to discuss it among the budget speakers in the Budget Committee, the Budget Committee. This enables us to further improve the very, very good new budgetary law, which, I believe, we have in Austria, as far as possible in the principle of consensus. To this end, we support the proposal for a deadline and are also available openly to amend this procedure once and then to see if this should become a permanent state and what else should be changed in budgetary law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1062	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1083	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners, dear listeners! Today, we are discussing the deadline application concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Finance Act and other laws. A period of up to 28 years should therefore be allowed. We will be set in March 2017 so that we can decide on this in the next plenary session. Why do we want these changes? – Mr Rossmann has already done this widely: On the one hand, the ban on speculation, on the other, on the amendment of the Federal Financial Framework Act. What does it mean that we discuss and decide on the Federal Financial Framework Act and the Federal Finance Act in one place? – The Federal Financial Framework Act is always being discussed in spring as one of many pieces in the Budget Committee, and it is hardly perceived and voted on. It is precisely this four-year plan, however, that is the essential thing that must be of particular interest to us as Members of Parliament. In autumn we have a wide discussion about the Federal budget. If we include the Federal Financial Framework Act, we MEPs have the opportunity to discuss with the respective Minister of State of the Interior of its long-term planning, how this is to be put into the plan in the long term. However, we have already heard other advantages, such as that there is a significant simplification both in the parliamentary and in the legislative processes, as not so many changes need to be made again. There are also simplifications in the administration. The Union legislation will be respected, and we will be able to implement what we need to report to Brussels in the spring. Ladies and gentlemen! Information on the medium-term plan is very important. I think that if we carry out this together with a budget week, together with a two- and three-day plenary session, then the information on the four-year planning will go much deeper and get much more public – therefore also this deadline proposal. Why is this deadline application available? – Yes, we have a tradition – the so-called circular decision – that the agenda will be adopted unanimously, that is, signed by all the political groups. This means that a speaker of a party can block an agenda or an entire committee. However, in the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility of the deadline proposal so that the National Council can say: Yes, we want to discuss this issue, we are dealing with this discussion. [[Abg. Loacker: Is the Minister also the discussion?]] [[Abg. Lugar: But the Minister doesn't say anything about it!]] Today's debate shows that we have to face up to the discussion. The different opinions are already in place. This will also be discussed in the Committee on Budgets, and so we can come to a conclusion on how the majority in this House stands on this issue. For this reason, I believe that setting deadlines is important. I'm asking for broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1139	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1161	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Now, I believe, we have really chased out any audience we might have had in the ORF or live stream with this discussion that no human can understand. Since now the last viewer has probably turned off, you should really ask yourself the following question, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: You put in here a deadline request to set yourself a two-week deadline to finally take action – we will not refuse the deadline proposal, for we want to be the last to prevent you from working – but do you not think that there would have been a new election request better and right?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1195	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1217	Madam President. Yeah, that's got something, of course! A more honest, long-announced procedure might have been better with regard to the procedure in the house. What I have heard has been tried by the Federal Minister, who is present today – it would be plausible if more members of the government were to do so in case of requests for deadlines – to inform individual members of the political groups of his project for a longer time. It's not supposed to fall under the table. In the matter itself you can be for anything or against a lot, but two things are already remarkable: Firstly, at that time this system was with a really very, very long – almost I would have said: a long time ago – effort, especially under parliamentary participation of all political groups, with a view to Sweden – above all there, and how great that is all that is – and was still made up of role models and no-one else. You can also change your impressions and opinions, even here in the house. But what really seems strange is precisely because it was taken so long to intervene in this system during ongoing evaluation. Maybe I'd let myself be convinced that there can be something about it. With this method, however, it is already methodical, I think, because what is the evaluation for? - That's one. The second is that, of course, it is already apparent that the two things are separated. At the time, people thought a lot of things about the current regulation, because the danger of contracting it in autumn is very, very large, that the medium-term planning, the financial framework, will always go down in the small number hack of the budget, at least in relation to it. I am still sluggish about the way in which Parliament's debates are supposed to be torn apart. But, as I said, I'm convinced by a lot. As far as the possibilities or the burdens in the Ministry of Finance – as they are presented – are concerned, I am not sure if this brings so much. I do not know, however, whether Parliament is here to facilitate the work in the ministry if it really wants to gain more influence in the budget process – only from the principle question. It must be said, I think, that: Is it true that in Austria the way It is suggested that Parliament should be given a higher priority in a core and, as some say, Parliament's kingly discipline – budgetary process, budget decision and preliminary financial framework – or not, less than before? This will be measured. As I said, I am not sorry to you, Minister of State. You have your arguments, you do it there. But we here are the Parliament! The really rare thing is – I can join the previous speaker – how and with what method the things are tipped in here. I mean, then we would have an appropriate proposal here. Where is he anyway? – This requires the ban on speculation – under quotation marks – which actually does not enter into force until 2018, so that it is suddenly urgent. That's one, let's say, if not unclean, but at least unscrupulous procedure. You should get used to that, too. One last point: If we had at last one, the federal one and the constitutional route for all the entities operating here, in particular the federal states, if we were to create such a thing, then at least this request would be justified. Then we could finally - watch out: Black from Lower Austria, get ready for the call! – turn off the speculations that are still defended, respected and still possible in Lower Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be a sensible way of doing this. For this, we could decide everything possible in Parliament overnight.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1280	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1301	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! We are debating a deadline for the SPÖ and ÖVP fractions. What is it really about? – This is a change in budgetary law, which is to be launched as quickly as possible. Of course, this also breaks with a tradition here in the House, namely with the tradition that household law, because it is a very sensitive matter, should be amended unanimously, in consensus. From this consensus, you deviate from this tradition! They want to combine the two-part budgetary process – a part in spring and one in autumn – which is by the way also international standard, which is handled in most other countries. In any case, the Austrian National Council is not known as the Parliament which is very strongly involved in the budget process. This is already remarkable, as the budgetary process, the debate and the adoption of a budget – yes, how should I say? – the fundamental right or the most important right, is the most important competence of a Parliament. As I have already said, the Austrian National Council is already very weakly involved, because in practice the draft budget comes into Parliament and leaves it almost unchanged. In fact, this is a draft of the Federal Government, which is more or less awakened by the government groups. But even that's too much: This two-part budgetary process – a part in spring, one in autumn – is to be combined. The argument is: This should ensure simplification. – Of course, this argument is already true, the question is only: For whom will it be easier? – The answer is clear: For the Ministry of Finance it will be easier, for you, Federal Minister, it will be easier. It is, of course, legitimate to make it easy for yourself in life, but the whole thing has nothing to do with a proper parliamentary budget process. However, this overall fits in with the picture that you, Mr Federal Minister, seem to be bothering with Parliament in budgetary and financial matters over and over again. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] In this respect, it is also in the picture that you are not speaking here in a debate that you are actually concerned with. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: So really! There is hardly a minister who...!]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: This is really an injunction, the evil...! I don't know, don't you take part in the Committee on Budgets? Are you even... or do you think about it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – It’s nice to see that you’ve hit the wound point. That obviously hurts. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: This is a strange perception of the facts!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: I praise the Kogler!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] That seems to hurt. This fits in with the picture you have so far shown: as few budget committees as possible; as many agenda items as possible do not have to be dealt with so as not to have to be dealt with; as a sub-committee, where reports from the Minister of Finance will then be dealt with, in which case you will never be here, but will send your officials. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] This is, as it were, the last example of the fact that the debate with Parliament is simply not desirable that it be bothered. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now you can decide, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ: Are you Members of Parliament, representing the interests of this House? – Then you can never and never agree to this circumcision of parliamentary rights in the budget process! Or are you simply the Federal Government commander? The vote will be taken immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1452	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1474	Madam President. High house! What's this about today? – For all those who watch and don’t quite understand what it’s about: It's relatively simple: We have a problem in Austria, a problem with the division of violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] That is, according to the Constitution, it would be so that we as Parliament are the legislators, and the government is the executive. [[Call the ÖVP: That's it!]] The Lord, who sits behind me on the right bank of the government, should normally execute what we decide in Parliament – as far as the theory is concerned. In reality, however, we are just the statistics here. The government groups call it good what comes from the government; the opposition, of course, criticizes. If we are discussing a budget, it is a question of discussing the policy that has been cast in figures, because that is exactly what the budget is all about. When we discuss a financial framework, it is about recognizing whether the Minister has ideas about how to continue Austria in the long term. This is the financial framework, and we are talking about it. The Minister then wants to put this into the autumn, where this long-term planning is not as sure as it really is about the figures as it actually looks in the budget. This is the way to hide this long-term planning in this autumn, and that is what it is all about. The issue is that it is incredibly annoying for the Minister to talk about the policy cast in figures, namely where we want to be in two, three, four years. That's why you don't want to talk about it, because you don't even know it. Let's look at the plan that the government has taken! After several years, the government has taken the plan that it wants to work! However, because she has no idea how she can finance it, it will now be relocated in the autumn. That is why we are prepared to sacrifice something that I do not think is too sacrifice, namely the debate on Parliament's basic planning, the discussion on how politics becomes visible, the debate on the focus. Is education important to us? Are the pensions important to us? Is health important to us? – These are the priorities, and you want to hide them now, because on the one hand you do not know how to cover what you have presented in this Plan A, and on the other hand you are not at all ready to think into the future. Look The budgets of recent years are as follows: You just wrote this, you just continued what you've done in the past, plus/minus a few percent, depending on how much the costs have increased, into the future. This is like a ship on the high seas whose steering wheel is tied up. That's how it's been in Austria for decades. That is, in fact, no more politics is happening at all, and now one wants to see what one can see, that is, hide the financial framework, in the autumn season, so that the citizens can no longer realize that in this country, in reality, nothing happens, that is no longer in government. And the government, which should normally execute what we decide here in Parliament, is lifting Parliament, taking the opportunity to show the population that this government does not really want to rule – and that is the scandal in this matter, Minister! [[Abg. Brosz:... Time limits!]] The second scandal is that you do not stand up here today and explain to us why you do not want Parliament to talk about the budget. Why don't you want this, Minister? Why do you want to cut down on Parliament, even though we are only Lakaien of a government that does what it wants to do, that is to eliminate the division of power that is contained in our constitution. It says that we decide here, and we are doing you the right thing – and not the other way round: that you decide and we will execute. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] That is exactly what you are doing, Mr Minister, and therefore it would be really appropriate for you to stand up, explain yourself and, above all, explain to us why you do not want a strong Parliament, where then we are not only talking about what you call politics once a year, but twice a year. I call it: just keep going, diving and no substantial changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00170_d7e1537	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the request, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the Government Template concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Finance Act, the General Social Security Act and other laws, 1514 of the Supplements, a deadline until 28. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this deadline to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 29 October. March 2017, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I also announce that following this meeting, the following committees will meet: the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs in the Standing Subcommittee Chamber, the Committee on Justice at Local VI, the Local Environment Committee V, and the Local Economic and Industrial Committee VIII. This meeting is closed.
