ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5982	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Brandstetter, Minister of State! I'll open the 171. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 169 and 170. Meeting of 14. ==References====External links==* Official website Deputies Amon, MBA, Kickl, Ing. Schellenbacher, Steger, Zanger and Mag. Jarmer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6013	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner is appointed by State Secretary Dr. Harald Mahrer, Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian In short, the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin, the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter will be appointed by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:13]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6076	In this way we arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Responsible living for everyone! Finally implement instead of stage.” First of all, Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek has spoken. I would draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6103	Good morning! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! With 1. In April, 300 000 tenants will face a heavy load package, and last year's rental-right-value increase will be staggering. This is an additional load package for many families, for which living is already a luxury. For several weeks and months, we Greens have been trying to put this issue more closely in the focus of their activities in the Federal Government, but until now we have the impression that nothing happens except announcements and placebos; therefore, Minister of Justice, we want to discuss this issue in detail with you today. I would, however, like to predict that not only are you responsible for this question, but that it is a task for the entire federal government to solve the social question of housing and finally address the problems of many Austrian families. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are these problems? – Whether from the city or from the country, we get dozens of emails and letters every day. I take here as an example a single-school nurse, she earns €1600 in her job. She lives alone in an apartment with her two children. They are available in the month with aliens a total of € 2 000, of which the apartment costs € 800, including operating costs it comes to € 1 000 living costs per month. This means that de facto half of their income flows only into living. However, she lives in the countryside and not in the city. We get writing from people who are in a difficult situation, because about a divorce has just been done. A woman with three children does not find a home in Vienna as a single parent, as she only works 20 hours. She also expressly describes that she has no reserve for a broker commission. This is already a springing point, namely to be burdened with 100 percent of such additional costs at this very interface of the search for housing. Another example from a letter – a young woman wrote to us: Dear Green Office! I live with my two siblings – three children, two adults – in a 70 square meter apartment, 850 € rent without operating costs. These are the most socially burning cases we need to deal with. We have the impression that the issue of living in a quiet place and the question of how families deal with this very, very difficult situation are completely concealed by the Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, you know for sure, but this is also a question to my fellow Members: Take cities in Germany such as Berlin, Hamburg and Munich and compare them with Austrian cities, like, do you think, is there the comparability? – The surprising thing is that living in Salzburg, Vienna, Innsbruck is significantly more expensive than in Hamburg, in Berlin and also in Munich. This is also an international situation that calls for action. We have now tried to advance proposals, bring suggestions, and have the impression that they have not arrived. For example, we said: Let's discuss the ordering principle! Let's see that only those people pay brokers' fees that have really ordered a performance! This is an essential question; in Germany this has been re-regulated. I do not have the impression that this proposal has been taken seriously by you or is being discussed. But I would like us to deal with this interface. This is a major issue for many in the search for housing, namely at this time thousands of euros, including the remuneration of contracts. Let us relieve these people of these costs at least in the short term! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the 2013 government programme there were still announcements, there was still the requirement – I quote –: ‘Prices and prices Costs for living space have increased disproportionately since 2005. Measures are therefore being targeted to ensure adequate coverage of the housing needs.” – That was in 2013. In 2017, the newly negotiated government agreement does not originally contain anything on these issues. A uniform rental right has been announced, transparent rental rate formation, the cancellation of the rental contract fee and a reform of the operating cost catalogue – except for a mini-reform of the thermal maintenance until now nothing has happened. I don't think there must be! [[Unrest in the hall.]] For television viewers: It is currently very loud in the hall – I suppose you all have few problems with your housing needs here, but I would still ask you to devote your attention to this social question with some attention. I would be very grateful for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have set ourselves the goal of making housing a highly political issue. The government has lost a lot of time without anything happening – and this is to blame for the people. Mr. Justice Minister, I would like to ask you a question. We would like to see the issue of renting, housing, the solution to the housing problem included in the new government agreement that measures are being taken in this regard. We are willing to provide our know-how, our experience and our knowledge in order to put this area on new feet, so that we can no longer look away. [[Call the FPÖ: Please don't!]] However, what is found in this government programme is a very interesting measure, namely the law to make non-profit housing de facto a commodity for investors. The “Falter” has called it “Abruption Mountain for Common Beneficiary”. We are already asking the question: What is that supposed to be? In this respect, the non-profit building associations say that they have enough equity. This is not necessary at all, because no profits are paid out, nor would they have any problems at all. – So the question of why filet pieces are to be made de facto a commodity and thus only a single effect is achieved, namely that renting in the non-profit area becomes more expensive, one has to put in all seriousness. The question also arises: Is it true that there is behind the lobby activity of former Minister Ostermayer, who pursues certain business interests? We are very curious about what this new law will actually bring. The trade union itself meant that the propagated innovation would therefore only result in cooperative dwellings becoming an expensive commercial object. – This is the smooth opposite of what we now need in the apartment area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, I ask you: If you now imagine that you would need to find an apartment at the apartment market by € 850 as a single parent with two children, what would you do? Who would you turn to? Who's there for these people? How are these people doing if they don't hear anything except announcements about months and years? Minister Drozda announced last week that there should be negotiations. He has mentioned the building speakers, of whom we know they failed to negotiate de facto in 2016 and that there is a real refusal of reform. What, Minister Brandstetter, do you think about how the people concerned are going to do if exactly that group, which has not managed to reform over weeks and months, is again to be entrusted with it? I think that will not create hope, but – on the contrary! - Great frustration. We Greens therefore propose that housing be the main issue, that there be negotiations at government level to actually make new advances, that we really make this social issue one of the most important aspects of this federal government a task. This is not the only social issue that is missing from this government agreement, but it is certainly the most burning social issue. Our proposal is: Please don't eat off, no placebos, no new announcements for the population! – This only increases frustration, but the concerns and fears remain on the track. Put this in the hands of those who may have a certain hope that this issue will be taken seriously! In any case, we take it seriously, we are important to these people who, at the moment on the 23rd of the month, no longer know how to proceed until 31st. We are, so to speak, their lawyers and hope that you may also be carrying out this task today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6181	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a preliminary opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6202	Madam President. Mrs. Klubobfrau! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Good morning, at Kaiserwetter, in Parliament! I would like to focus on what has just been said. I understand the dissatisfaction that it has so far not succeeded in reorganising in rental law more than the so-called thermal control system, which, however, has made an important clarification with regard to the maintenance obligation for the interior of the rental property, which is just located with the landlord. That was not nothing, but it was not what was included in the original 2013 government programme, namely a comprehensive reform of rental law. The fact that this has not been achieved so far is also unsatisfactory for me, because that is the last major civil law issue in the government programme, which falls within my competence, which we have not yet been able to handle. Everything else we've done. What is now contained in the enlarged government programme, in the current work programme, we will be able to work this out relatively quickly, as far as my area of competence is concerned. This is, in my view, unsatisfying, but it is, of course, unsatisfying – I understand – because many factors simply have a negative effect and lead to the social problem that I see. In this regard, I would like to say to Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig: Yes, I understand very well. I remember very well that at the time when I moved to Vienna in 1980, we received a supported apartment as a young family. At that time there were even housing aid for a period of time, there were own funds loans for young families. All these things – that is not the covenant, but, above all, the countries – now seem no longer to be grasping, which does not seem to work anymore. It must already be seen that, as has already been said, this concerns a number of experts. I can only be responsible for civil law. To all that has now been mentioned, for example, on the problem of the broker commission, I say: This is actually the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs – I just want to make it clear – but I see the problem, that's right. All tax issues relating to rental law fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. The question of the commitment of housing funds – you all know it – of course concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on the other hand, lies in the competence of the countries, so is country competence. I have the impression that there was actually a need at several levels of responsibility for relevant activities. As far as the question of valorization of the indicative values is concerned, I must say that this is a valorization that is legally founded. I have the unpleasant part to play that I am purely declared by regulation – with 1. April in force – the Valorization must announce. I don't have a decision-making space, I have to do it. It's a construction that doesn't bother me at all, but it's like that. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Change! Change the law!]] It is, as has been said, a valorization, which was last exposed, and one simply has to say that any suspension of course also leads to the problem that the next time Valorization comes to the fore, which is always a problem. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can only say, I understand the problem. I am also pleased that this time we are back in the process. There are now also regular meetings under the leadership of Chancellor Drozda, and we are trying to find a consensus on a rental reform that includes more points. I also believe – I am right, Mrs Klubobfrau – that we need it. Yes, it is unsatisfying to see that there is, on the one hand, the many-quoted rental needle, consisting of tenants who simply enjoy privileges derived from anachronistic regulations, and on the other hand, young families are incredibly difficult to find – you are absolutely right – to find liquefied apartments. Something's wrong. On the other hand, there are certainly many apartments empty because the owners simply don't want to rent anymore. This is the basic problem: Of course, certain market mechanisms cannot be completely eliminated. They can be eliminated in their impact, which is called social or at best eco-social market economy, but they cannot be put out of power. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: “At best”! Yes, that's a lip confession, and there's nothing behind it!]] Because you mentioned the reform in Germany: It makes sense to deal with it. I was only yesterday talking to colleagues from the German Ministry of Justice about this because I was interested in it. I asked them what their experience with the law is of the rental price brakes, and I was told that they were quite different, because they were also very strongly focused on setting the appropriate guide values locally. However, the core of the rental price brake in Germany is that the increase in the rent may not be more than 10 per cent in the case of new rental, and one expects to assume different market values locally – whether in Munich, Hamburg or Berlin for example. That was the concept behind the German model. I tried two years ago to raise the discussion in Austria, too, by means of this German law, but this has not been very interesting; it is now. In the end, then, one must really try to find a compromise which takes into account, on the one hand, laws of the market and market mechanisms to some extent and, on the other hand, ensures a social suspension, but at several levels of competence. We're going to talk about it more intensively now. We have really tried to reach a consensus on the part of the judicial unit – and I must say that in the interests of my staff. We have really tried from the very beginning to implement this point of the original government programme. The competent section head, who has shown a lot of patience and is also an ideal mediator, has then tried to promote consensus in individual discussions with the interest groups, but that has not been possible so far. It simply could not be achieved more than what has actually become law with the already mentioned thermal regulation. – Yes, that’s not satisfactory, but in the end I have to say: It is a interplay of several factors. Of course, if you do not modernise and adapt them in good time, you can do quite a lot of damage; I am aware of that and I am angered. I just recently saw in a television show that many beautiful old houses seem to be able to be towed for economic reasons and have to put ugly new buildings in place. This is something I don't like at all, because in the end the tourists also come to Vienna because of the old houses and not, with few exceptions, because of the new ones. It can therefore be seen that a lack of legal basis can cause great damage, which can often no longer be remedied. You can also see this internationally: Why are so many houses half finished in some countries? – Because the tax legislation simply depends on the building having to be finished; before you pay no tax. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's in the south, you can't compare that!]] There are other similar examples; a beautiful historical example seems to me to be: Once you have an opportunity to visit in Germany these beautiful specialist houses, which hopefully are all under monument protection, then you will find that they are getting wider and wider. Why? – Because at that time the basic tax was calculated from the built ground. We see, therefore, that the legal regulations have great consequences. But you also have to see: The problem you rightly addressed, Mrs Klubobfrau, is a social one. I know from my own experience how difficult it is to get a living space as a young family, but this has to be solved on several levels. This is not a pure announcement, and I do not want to promise too much, so I have deliberately pointed out that I can only speak for my immediate competence: I can only promise that we will continue to strive to find a consensus. I also understand this current hour quite clearly in the sense that this is a contribution to the fact that everyone involved – and these are located at several levels – is really trying to find consensus. But I can't force consensus. As long as there is no consensus here in the House, it will not be useful. Parliament, as you know, is the Sovereign, here is the decision on laws, here the majority have to be found – to whom I say this? As long as there is no consensus here, I will sing the song of the Minister in response to an old well-known Vienna song: If Parliament does not want to, it does not use anything. Just be evil, just nervous, just just scream around, just be stupid, yes Parliament always knows why. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6300	Ladies and gentlemen! I actually thought that the noise level in the hall after the morning greeting will again lower a little. However, this has not been the case for nearly 30 minutes now. I would ask you to give full attention to the debate again. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6325	Madam President. Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The criticism of rental law is great, and in me you will find one of the biggest critics, because the legal situation is very unclear. We have to do with constantly rising rents, and it is quite possible that in a house there are five tenants and five different legal entities. There are studies. No one knows when he is affected by what legal situation applies to him. The case law is also very different; I once presented it on the basis of a catalogue. Up to the OGH there are different legal opinions of the judges, which rent, which supplement is permissible. Mrs Glawischnig has already said this: In the 2013 government programme, living is an essential point. Some things have already been implemented – the WGG reform, the issue of standards, the issue of the conservation of the spas, the property issues – but in the government programme, in addition to various individual reform points, is also the goal of “the creation of a uniform rental right”, and this is a very important point, because Austria is a land of tenants. In Austria, unlike other countries, such as the USA, Spain or the UK, where real estate crises make the picture of non-controllable apartments, 42 percent are tenants. Living is a basic need, and the state has the task of providing its cover and it also bears the responsibility for living within a manageable framework. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Six out of ten tenants live in municipal or cooperative apartments. In the last five years, the rents of municipal and cooperative apartments have increased by 11.6 percent and 12.4 percent respectively, whereas those of private rental homes have been almost twice as much, namely by almost 25 percent; inflation has amounted to 11 percent. This means, although we have a relatively high new construction performance, a relatively high proportion of newly funded construction and compared with other countries, we have massive problems with liquefaction. This is also due to the fact that the verification of surcharges and discounts is not always given due to the many deadlines and therefore the claims are very difficult to enforce. For all new building apartments – new building apartments, we understand those apartments that were built after 1945 – which are not supported and are not subject to any regulations, that is, private ones, the cost increase is enormous, and this is to be offset. To be sure, when we talk about rental law, we speak of about 220 000 apartments, which are still priced, as opposed to 3.8 million main residences, in which this is not the case. These price schemes concern dwellings in old buildings, i.e. those built before 1945, which are becoming less and less. All those apartments that have been built afterwards and have not been promoted are located in the irregular area, and this grows enormously. Therefore, our demand for a uniform rental right is justified. We have put on the table a truly well-founded proposal, which was the basis for negotiation. He did not find a majority, and then several points were further negotiated. We presented the outcome of these negotiations in the previous year. It was the smallest common denominator: Transparency regulations, the reduction of time-limitation problems, exact operating costs, maintenance requirements, improvement of the situation in single-family homes. In the end, however, powerful individual interests have also brought this outcome to the coalition partner. The recent initiative of Federal Minister Drozda is very welcome. There are many urgent measures that could be implemented at the same time, such as rental contract fees, construction land mobilization or broker fees, which have already been addressed – they would be budget neutral at all – and a corresponding scheme would help many people to get better on the rounds. Apart from these individual measures, which would bring many improvements, a uniform rental right is nevertheless a command of the hour. This would lead to a further increase in the number of people living a functioning housing market, where prices do not gallop, the owners and tenants have a compensation, and the housing does not become an investment property and proceeds. Time has passed. Negotiations need time, but those seeking housing do not have this time. I therefore call on you to also remember that it is a very important task to create this social compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6391	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6412	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We probably agree that living is a basic need of every person. Therefore, it is an important task of policy to provide the necessary framework conditions – also because of the need to keep living in a manageable position. From my point of view, in Austria we have a healthy mix of commercial and social housing. On this solid foundation we can build well from my point of view. Nevertheless, it has been so in recent years that the prices that have already been discussed have attracted a lot of attention. In my view, there are a number of reasons for this. In my opinion, the main reason is that demand for housing exceeds supply at weitem. This situation, of course, is less true of the rural regions than of the agglomerations, where there is also a clear undercover due to the strong movement from home and abroad. The supply of housing therefore does not keep pace with demand. The creation of new housing and the mobilization of the existing housing market are therefore the cornerstones of the ÖVP housing policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Property also has a special role for the ÖVP. The funds from housing support must therefore, of course, also be available for home support. This, of course, corresponds to the wishes of the people in our country. Why? – According to a study by the market research institute Integral, 91 percent of Austrians want a home. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is not possible with honest work!]] 66 percent wish for a house and 25 percent an apartment. Tag Building Development: Yes, the reintroduction of purpose has been examined. However, I do not believe that this has been achieved; it is crucial to see how much money the countries eventually spend on housing, and from my point of view the development is true. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that expenditure on housing support has increased continuously over the past 50 years. In 2014 it was almost €3 billion in total. As a clear commitment to the continuation of this policy, I regard the country's commitment to establish housing programmes with a binding housing performance and to commit the funds to it. Of the national funds now, a short while to the resources available by the federal government: This year, too, funds are being used to continue to support important initiatives that have already been successful in recent years, such as the so-called craftsman bonus, with which craftsmanship benefits are supported. A continuation would be a positive signal in view of the still tense economic situation especially for small businesses and the employees there. [[Abg. Moser: It doesn't use anything!]] The Federal Funding of Thermal Rehabilitation is also an essential initiative: Since the start of 2009, more than 100,000 houses and apartments as well as 4,000 farms have been thermally renovated. With a funding volume of around € 590 million, investments of € 4.2 billion were triggered. Now to the rental right: We confess to a rental right that reflects the legitimate interests of tenants and landlords. [[Abg. Moser: That's what we want!]] We have, of course, also included this in the government programme. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] But I also say quite clearly: We do not want individual measures, but rather a voting package. We want a rental right that promotes investment and does not hinder it. A very clear one. No, therefore, I say to demands that insist on the introduction of rent rates, because that is exactly what we need at least: It will no longer be invested, and the so urgently needed living space will no longer be, but less. We can look at the effects in other countries, such as France or Sweden. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] Upper limits were introduced there, and this resulted in a dramatic breakdown in the rental sector. That's why: Investment incentives and no further regulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6491	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6507	Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, a number of important points; I only mention the admission rights, the valorization of the indicative value, transparency in the rental contract and also the maintenance issue. Overall, dear Mrs Glawischnig: If the Greens see the residential law negotiations as a staging, then explore the seriousness of the theme!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6550	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention once again to the speaking time. You still have time for a final sentence, your speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6576	I may continue Yes, it is very difficult to negotiate, but it must always be the focus of the search for a solution. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is civil disobedience!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6620	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6641	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In advance, I would like to clarify one more thing and write in the main book of the Immer-noch Marxists: Every reasonable person knows: Only larger offer creates lower prices. Because it's so important, I'll tell you again: Only larger offer creates lower prices! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We feel what completely exceeded rental price covers from the SPÖ in connection with the removal of meaningful tax reliefs for investments from the ÖVP in residential construction at the latest since 2011. According to Statistics Austria – it has already been quoted – the rents have increased by an average of 15 percent since 2011. What does that mean? – The rent for a living place that made up €600 per month in 2011 is now €690, which means an increase of €90 per month. And this not only applies to the private and freely funded sector, no, but also the rents for community apartments and cooperative apartments have increased by an incredible 12 percent. Living is too expensive, the rents are too high! – On the other hand, we must finally do something and not just announce, because people feel our policy on living in close proximity, and this is currently extremely painful. Ladies and gentlemen! This government is on a collision course, on a collision course with the future and with the future of young people in this country, because they are mainly affected. While this applies to all areas, there is an urgent need for action on the subject of living. The basic need to live – you mentioned this, Mr. Singer – is brutally ignored by this government every day. It seems to me that these coalition parties are traditional associations to maintain the standstill. The topic of rental law reform has been in its government programme since 2013. What that means, everyone can imagine. If you really want relief quickly, please delete the rental fee! We will make an appropriate request, and then we will see whether you are really interested in helping people, and especially young people, to the new tenants. This is an anachronistic fee that no one needs anymore, according to a 2008 request response, has brought about €50 million at that time. I think you can save a lot of money. This saving would also be a good investment because people would have a little more money for living again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, a few tenants will help rent price restrictions in the short term, but on the other hand, it is much better for many owners to leave flats empty, and that may not be our goal. The right to rent must not be used as a social policy instrument. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Can you quote that?]] We need a major reform of the right of residence, which also reforests and uniforms existing law, a uniform rental right. - Yes. [[Abg. Steinhauser: We will quote that!]] I'll say what I mean by that. [[Abg. Steinhauser: I understand!]] – That’s great, Mr. Collegue! [[Abg. Moser: Just keep going!]] We also need to talk about the following, which many here would like to drop under the table, and I would like to begin by quoting an article by ‘orf.at’ on a statement by Mr Konrad Pesendorfer, Director-General of Statistics Austria: “Efficacy, however, has also become a demographic effect: According to Pesendorfer, the increase in demand for cheap housing can be derived from the inflow of migrants to Austria.” This, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, means nothing but: Their completely missing immigration policy, under the great approval of the Greens, is a top prize driver and takes the breath of the people who already have too little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I have a special Bonmot. Dr. Michael Ludwig, the senior councillor for housing in Vienna – I think, well-known – has asked about Plan A by Chancellor Kern on the topic of community use, written in an answer to questions – and this is always criticized –: “The aim of the current government template is not to change the possibility of a profit distribution.” – Genuineness! "It is more likely that the truth of the assessment after the discovery of silent reserves will be achieved in order to avoid economic and non-comprehensible adjustments in value." And now comes the most important sentence: ‘In this respect, there can also be no impact on the construction activities of non-profit building associations.’ That's why I wanted to mention Plan A again and ask him not to implement it, especially since even city councillor Ludwig says from your own ranks that will not do anything. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be at the end of the sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a rental right to an eye, a rental right that creates investment incentives and guarantees social security. Rent law must take into account the interests of both sides, otherwise existing apartments will continue to be removed from the market and less new ones will be built – and this, ladies and gentlemen, would be a real disaster in the current situation, because only an increased offer can slow price increases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6744	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6765	Ladies and gentlemen! Last Friday, the voice of Minister Drozda awakened me from the radio alarm clock. He said he had great news to announce that there would be a rental law reform. - I was bright. [[Abg. Schönegger: Was that the “Mitagsjournal ”?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] - He was good. The colleague said it was the “Mitagsjournal”. No, it was the “Morgenjournal. ” You can be assured I'll get up early, but the call was really good. So I was bright. He also said that the building speakers should negotiate this, and so I knew: The rental right remains in a deep sleep, because what the building speakers have done so far is quickly to be balanced: “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, August 2016: ‘For years, no result’. “The standard”, also in August: ‘Re-arranged anti-terrorism reform’. The “Kronen Zeitung”: ‘Living remains so expensive’. This is the balance of the previous negotiations of the building speakers – and that hurts! When we talk about the payment of a family of four at a household income of € 2 000 1 000 per month, we know: It can't go out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who affects this rental right? – The rental law concerns the boys, the young families, the middle class, those who do not benefit from social housing. It is also interesting to me that the ÖVP obviously has no heart for this group, because they are also voters who would have to be interesting for the ÖVP. Why do the rental prices rise? – Most of the apartments have long been located outside the protection of the property by means of the rental law. New construction or all that has been built in the last 30, 40, 50 years is not covered by the protection by the rental law. Real estate prices have exploded during the financial crisis. It was only recently to be read in the media: Real estate prices have risen by 40 percent over the last five years. The other inflation was about 10 percent. This can not only be the beginning of a real estate bubble, but what does that mean? – That means that dwellings with honest work will virtually no longer be manageable. An apartment costs €800 000 in Vienna, € 1 million. No one can afford it anymore. But not only do the apartments are no longer sedentary, but the problem is: If the real estate becomes more expensive, then higher returns are expected, and if there are to be higher returns, because this has to be refinanced, the rental prices rise; therefore, such pressure on the rents arises. Living has become a lucrative business, and that's the problem. However, if land prices rise, social housing will also be under pressure. Why? – Because social housing is also dependent on the ability of the public hand to buy land that is sustainable. However, if there are no longer any of these, because the real estate prices are rising, social housing is also destroyed. It is therefore urgently necessary to intervene if it is not to come as far as in Vienna, Graz, Salzburg, Innsbruck or Linz as in Munich, Paris or London. In London, two thirds of the pay is spent on housing. What do you recognize a real Londoner? – By the fact that he lives outside London. That's the point. Or Munich: In Munich, the rent costs 1 800 € for a 100 square meter apartment. A family with average income can no longer afford to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not want to do that; therefore, there is also this current hour, and therefore we are putting pressure on you, Mr Justice Minister, on the building speakers, on the SPÖ and on the ÖVP. A policy that wants life to be manageable – which is one of its basic tasks – that the wages agree that the rent can be paid must simply be guaranteed for citizens. Living is not a commodity, like any other, dwelling is a basic need, and therefore policy must ensure the conditions for it. In the past, living has been considered as a safe investment at low interest rates; today we have an interest rate expectation that drives rents up, so the key to sustainable living on the one hand is the social protection function for tenants and, on the other hand, the sustainability of the property at very, very conservative interest rates. Otherwise, you will not be able to ensure quiet living. One can draw a clear summary from today's discussion: The FPÖ is for the release of the rents. I'd like to tell you this story: If I stand at the sausage stand and tell your voters that, the sausage will fall out of their hands. The second point: The Minister of Justice understands us, but can't do anything. I've rarely seen such a re-signatory minister. Minister Drozda pursues a policy of announcement. The indicative interest rate will not rise, he said. We will suspend the adjustment. - Nothing happens. The building speakers will continue to negotiate, and they will fail again. One could draw the following conclusions from this discussion: The government is fighting, and the tenants will continue to sheet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6821	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6842	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The greens are worried about living, that's nice, so let's take a closer look at this! The rental contract fee – yes, the Greens are right – the rental contract fee has been deleted, but this opinion is also of many others. I asked the Minister of Finance how much the Republic, under the heading "Remuneration of rental contracts for housing" at all. And the answer was: We do not know this at all, because the Financial Office records all legal fees under the heading legal fees and is thus also listed as very different legal transactions under this title. This is the modern management of the Republic of Austria. And yes, the Greens are right when they say the broker fees belong to the orderer principle. There are also corresponding requests from various political groups within the committees. Exciting it will be when the Greens say they are for the purpose of promoting housing. In fact, we know from a study by the Institute of Real Estate, Building and Housing, published last September that three federal states are contesting their entire housing support from the return flows of residential loans. The borrowers, the citizens, pay back their loans, and this money uses the countries to promote housing. All that is deducted from wages and salaries to the working people, all that is deducted from the enterprises under the heading of housing aid, but sends it to the country budgets. Which three federal states are these? – Salzburg, Tirol, Vorarlberg. And in which three federal states are the Greens in the state government? – Salzburg, Tirol, Vorarlberg. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] So where the greens have something to chat about, they don't bring anything else. [[New condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Here in Parliament is, of course, easy to hop, but in the federal states, where they are responsible, they are just as sluggish as we have known from SPÖ and ÖVP over the last 70 years. What makes living more expensive? – Over long distances, it is the public hand through which living becomes more expensive. If you look more closely at the data of Statistics Austria, you can see that in Vienna the operating costs for an apartment are 10 percent higher than in the Federal average. This is remarkable in so far as it would have to be cheaper to provide a lot of people on small areas than on large areas; we think only of the laying of pipes. However, the city of Vienna earns a basket fee by spending more on the water charge than it needs, namely € 19 million, and with the garbage charges it also collects more than it needs, namely € 59 million. – This is money that is being reduced to citizens in the form of operating costs, that is money that makes living more expensive and, at the end, sends away in the city budget in Vienna. And who has ruled in the city of Vienna for many years? - The Greens! [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Jank.]] I'll get you together. There, where the Greens rule, nothing works, and now they come up with the idea that you could regulate everything a little bit more. Colleague Becher said she's a sincere rent-soci: Six out of ten tenants live either in municipal construction or in funded housing. And if you don't manage to solve the social issue – 60 percent of the tenants are cared for by public authorities – then I don't know what you might have done in the face of this 60 percent right. Obviously, you totally forgot it. It is also true that the operating costs of Wiener Wohnen are much higher than those of the flats on the free market. So where the public hand has its paws, it doesn't get better, but there it gets worse. In fact, today it looks like many financially weak citizens can no longer afford to live in Vienna, but move back to their parents, because living in the community building, which is supposed to be so social, for people with low incomes now does not is more sedentary. Especially the Greens should know that many people with medium and high incomes live in municipal construction. One of you is not here now, I think, but you could clean up in your own ranks instead of hopping out loud here in Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6917	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6939	I find it totally interesting and refreshing that the Greens are talking about quiet living here today. I really wondered why the Greens put this on the tapet, and I found the answer: because the Greens are well-known experts for cheap living. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You have one in your ranks – unfortunately, he has left the hall now – which has proved this in the past. He has been proving for 40 years that he is an expert for cheap living by being comfortable and safe for him! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am talking about Mr Peter Pilz, and we should ask him why the Greens are putting this issue on the tape today and why they do not explain to the people how it is that you can rent at €144 as a Member. On the other hand, the Greens are also the cause of precisely these problems that we are talking about today. That would be about as if the Greens were going to expand the locks at a supermarket in the evening, and the next day they would be very angry with the press and say: Something's gone, someone stole something! That is exactly what you are doing, because with your policy of moving in, with your immigration policy, you are creating the problems we are talking about here. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Whoever does not believe this – perhaps even the people outside of the screens or here on the gallery – should now take a pocket calculator to hand. I'm setting up a bill now. In Vienna, 40 000 homes are missing, 10,000 are being newly built each year, and with the help of the Greens and the Left, 100 000 immigrants are added each year. [[Abg. New builder: This builds the dog torfer!]] - How's that going? How can this go without the apartments becoming increasingly expensive? - Don't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The problem we have is, of course, that the apartments are getting more expensive because there are just too few apartments. Talk to someone who needs an apartment in Vienna! – The emptiness in Vienna, aha, the emptiness! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Have you ever heard of the void in Vienna? That's not little!]] How high is the emptiness? Tell us! Do you even know that? Ten thousand apartments are empty in Vienna. There is an up-to-date study on this. What do you want? Are you reaching 10,000 homes when they bring 100,000 refugees into the country? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Choir of the Greens speaks of expropriations. This must be broken on the tongue: We have 10 000 apartments, you leave 100 000 refugees in our country, and then you want to score with the expropriation of those who no longer rent the apartments, because it is no longer retiring. These are the Greens! – That’s just to get a sense of what’s going on in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The Greens are really a problem. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Yes!]] They cause the problem, then sit down and hit everyone and say: That's not how it goes, we have to put in a lid now, we have to intervene by law! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Have you ever considered the situation as regards the construction industry in Vienna? You can wait up to two years in Vienna for construction permits alone, so until you get a construction permit at all. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch!]] Take a look at the surrounding districts, for example in 23. District! Do you know what you're paying for a property there? [[Call the Greens.]] There you pay up to 1 000 € – I'm not talking about 1. District, I'm talking about 23. District, I'm talking about 10. District, from the districts a little further outside –, pay 1 000 € per square meter You've been there! And do you know why? - Because everyone wants to go to Vienna! Because you too and especially the Reds in Vienna create a sog for all those who want to come to Vienna who want to make a better life possible. Therefore, in Vienna there are also most social assistance recipients, all want to go to Vienna. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Fpö]] This also creates pressure on the rents, and that's why the rents are rising; we have just heard it: by 70 percent in recent years. That's the problem. That's why the Austrians are impoverishing because of your politics. – You have to say that openly once! If you really want to do something, then oblige those refugees who are allowed to stay here – if it goes after me, that's very few anyway, but it's supposed to be so – to live in the country, to prevent them from moving to Vienna, as everyone would like. Finally, we can decide where to live if they are already a guest with us. That's what it's all about! Then we can create more living space again. In addition, I have not heard about this today, we should finally open up construction land in the surrounding area. We have the problem that all the municipalities around Vienna do not have any land to build. In other words, we need to build at least 40 000 apartments a year to pick up a bit of residue. It would be that simple. This would promote the construction industry, which would promote the economy, but you do not want that, and that is the problem. What you want is to intervene in property rights. You want expropriations, you want to prescribe with the law box which rental rates are charged, and that is certainly not the right way. Rethink your refugee policy, then – you will see – it will also be better in the housing area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7069	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7090	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! On the way to colleague Lugar: You have not presented any solution, you have not dedicated yourself to any problem situation! [[Abg. Lugar: You didn't watch!]] The only thing you did was operate on with any numbers for which there is no basis at all. They never give a concrete example. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] This is simply significant for how you understand politics. They simply throw in any numbers without any basis, essentially anything to base Vienna. [[Abg. Lugar: These are the official figures of Vienna!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Postfachtic Communication!]] – This is a completely false political understanding! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Now for a quiet living for everyone: This is a perfectly correct requirement, which we believe is not only supportive, but on which we work daily by the SPÖ both in the federal government and in the countries and communities. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Since when do you say that? For decades! Nobody believes you anymore!]] Unfortunately, not all of us are working on it, and that is why we are always on it again and again. With often non-comprehensible arguments, each proposal is averted – and the burden of young people. [[Abg. New builder:... not the SPÖ!]] Let us think of the first four walls that are not eligible for funding, we think of young families who cannot afford to do so, of single parents, of pensioners and pensioners! I have to tell you that makes me really great, and it's annoyed that we're standing up to the no-one else. [[Abg. Peter Worm:...! What was it?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The worm worms again!]] Of the trouble alone, we know, but no one has anything, that is why we already have some of the SPÖ proposals on the table that we could put into practice tomorrow, when it came to us. [[Call the FPÖ:Aha, aha!]] We just don't have a majority for that. Let us take these demands and, above all, the solutions for people once again: Clearly, it takes more land to make affordable living possible. The answer can be found in the new government programme: Tag contract order, or the permanent burning requirement according to the category of dedication of social housing. [[Abg. Moser: I applied for that ten years ago!]] This is planned for autumn, we are ready, and I really hope all the colleagues in this House will be here. Subject to broker commissions: It is extremely expensive to finance a private home. I am not yet talking about the monthly burden, the rents that often lie far away from any reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have always called for the abolition of broker commissions paid by the tenant in. I wonder why there's nothing going on. Not only You yourself will have been confronted with the problem, but you will also meet people who are dependent on the landlord's or landlord's goodwill in your circle of acquaintances, friends or relatives, or in your speaking hours. Mr Ruth Becher, our building spokesman, has already mentioned this: There is an urgent need for greater transparency in the calculation of rents. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But you already put the Federal Chancellor, Mrs. Colleague! Or did I miss something?]] We from SPÖ have proposed universal rental law. This is a proposal that we have brought among the people by the young generation in the SPÖ as part of a citizens' initiative. We were able to collect 2,000 signatures for this. Universal rental law is about demanding a rental of €5.50 per square meter for between 30 and 150 square meters and defining clearly what supplements and discounts are. No one can then make or evaluate an individual assessment. That would be fair and transparent. I'm really calling on you to do this. [[Call the FPÖ:Then put it into practice!]] [[Abg. Hauser: In Vienna...!]] Best-practice models that really have to do across-the-board school: The 5 x 5 model is perhaps known to the Upper Austrians among you, the whole has begun in Steyr: 5 € per square meter over five years. These are start-ups, so for people between the ages of 18 and 30. In Tyrol, too, these things have been captivated, and I hope it will also work out and other cities, other communities and other federal states will support this project. On the means of construction: We all know the numbers – we all, you all – but who really picks up these resources? There is one federal state, and that is Vienna; everyone else does not pick up the funds. I say it openly to you, ladies and gentlemen, we need to be more lobbying in the federal states, as very many federal states simply steal from their responsibilities. Other aspects are the amount of own resources and monthly rents: If you are 20 years old and have to browse 40,000 € to get an apartment, or pay 800 € per month, this usually does not work without indebtedness. That means we finally have to go down with our own resources. Our answer is cheaper, but still more high-quality building. Last year we had a discussion here in the house on building standards, we finally need the implementation of the results in order to build target group-oriented together with the target groups. In short, ladies and gentlemen: With us in the SPÖ you run into open doors with the theme. “Citizens live now!” that is a political credo for us Social Democrats. Wherever it goes, we stand for it. We are trying to do persuasion, create majority voting, and we are also implementing where we can, I can promise you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7298	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7314	I come to the conclusion: At this point, we again demand movement from those who have not yet understood or want to understand that affordable living is a fundamental right. Finally, people can't wait any longer!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7351	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7373	Madam President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! I particularly welcome the officials of the Chamber of Commerce of Tyrol here in the House. Welcome to Parliament for this exciting discussion! Living is one of the basic needs, such as safety, such as food. I believe that we all agree, with almost every speech today it was also expressed. First of all, I would like to say that everyone who has spoken about the existence of a permanent residence by means of a single reform of the right of rent is under wrapping. That's shortened, that's a wrong view. Let me take the following ten considerations – constructively – to present a durable living and the way to do so! Let us start with the theme and the thesis that property will secure the most affordable living in the long term and prevent poverty in old age. [[Abg. Moser: How to buy an apartment around 1 million?]] Ladies and gentlemen, property guarantees cheap living in old age. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The demand is constantly increasing, the supply is too low, we all know that. We must create incentives, which may be different: They may be taxable, they may be through subsidies, they may be due to fewer requirements. I say – thesis 2 –: Get down with the standards, down with the standards, build easier! It does not have to be made of glass and comply with all the highest standards. Let's get back to living space, which is human-led, even if perhaps the absolute high levels we've ordered ourselves can't be reached. They don't have to be accessible either. Cheap planks and reasonable living create much more manageable living space. At the end of the day – my next thesis – capital is naturally to be expected. The investor does not invest if he does not even return his capital used in the long term. Therefore: Investment in housing must be made attractive. Ladies and gentlemen, we can talk about our wish for offers, but if we do not find anyone who builds, because it does not calculate, then there are no offers – neither in the property market, nor in the rental market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Moser: Consistency builds too!]] Next point: We need targeted promotions. The volume in Austria is probably too low at the moment. The housing cooperatives, the non-profit housing cooperatives have the competence to live in quiet housing, ladies and gentlemen, in all situations of life, from young living to family living to caring for living in old age. My next request and consideration: Access to land for the promoted housing needs to be facilitated and reduced. Federal Government, countries and municipalities should increase these reasons – please listen; especially those who have just said that the procedures take too long – provide quickly and on favourable terms in building law. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, from where shall they take it?]] The non-profit-making housing is available. Ladies and gentlemen, this part of the construction costs is to be reduced; in my opinion, construction law is a good means to achieve this. Benefits especially need young people at the start into – I call it – housing self-employment, when moving away from home. It is important here to set up a bundle of measures: not the cancellation of rental fees over everything, but the cancellation of rental fees when I first conclude a rental contract when I go into residence self-employment. Super promotions for young people living: Niederösterreich implements this example; yesterday I handed over apartments in St. Pölten as part of the Young People's Living Project. – Great people, great planks, great construction and great promotions! But, ladies and gentlemen, we need to be helped at the start and not in the long run. Let's start, but the luck of getting such an apartment can't mean a lifetime advantage for individuals and leave others on the track. Next point: There are law-abiding regulations that make the living space scarce and expensive, such as the renting needle. I mean, a hundred years after the end of the monarchy, it would finally be time to clean up with the rental needle. My consideration of this is as follows: Marriages and minors can enter again in a transitional period, at the conditions they now find – I want to avoid unfair hardships – but there must be the possibility of renting these apartments to the benchmark in the future. Stop unwarranted privileges! It does not happen to those who really need the apartments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By means of rental policy: The adaptation with April 2017 is necessary. This is only within the framework of inflation, and that does not even represent 1 percent for 2016. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] This makes 5 cents at 5 € square meters – just so we know the dimensions. It is a fair relationship between tenants and landlords to search, and it needs an annual adjustment so that not suddenly a double and triple increase rate the people...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7455	Ladies and gentlemen, please formulate the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7470	This would affect the overcrowded charges that make rents even more expensive. The rents are lower than the fees – I pull them together – which for Vienna means € 658 million of basket money. – These are the real cost drivers! Ladies and gentlemen! Only a functioning market contributes to the benefit of all participants, and this cannot be replaced by state regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7513	Next: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7534	Good morning, Madam President. High house! Minister! We were, I think, a little surprised today that the greens are suddenly interested in living in a quiet place. [[Abg. Moser: That's not sudden!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Ha, ha, ha!]] That was very surprising. Once the Greens go hand in hand with the “Kronen Zeitung”, it is really populism in pure culture. That, I must say, surprises me, but it's right in the matter, of course, even the “Kronen Zeitung” is right: “So expensive was living” in Austria “not yet”. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What do the FPÖ operators say about this?]] But please, what are the causes? – The Greens are also a part of this miscarriage. If we are talking about increases in housing prices from 50 to 70 percent since 2010 and were the biggest increases in Vienna, Tyrol and Salzburg, then my first question is – apart from being always in red and black – who is in the state government in these federal states. - The Greens! Of course the Greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is not a country matter!]] Where the Greens are in the state government, prices have risen most. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Because the people there like to move!]] [[Abg. Lugar: The refugees!]] This statement, I believe, is clearly understood. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Because there is the quality of life in order!]] Today we will not be able to solve these issues or discuss them in detail; only one story should be held, which is with the announcement: It was clear many years ago that this increase of hundreds of thousands is not compatible with Austria. We don't have the jobs for these hundreds of thousands, nor do we have the apartments. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] Of course, especially the Greens, but also SPÖ and ÖVP, with the non-negotiation on this issue have fueled this problem of rising housing prices. You're a part of this development. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] There is also a margin theme for the SPÖ: I can remember just under two years ago, when the Minister of Social Affairs was still in office and promised us 50,000 social housings with an investment volume of €6 billion. Dogstorfer is in retirement, or in partial pension, and the 50,000 apartments were not built, of course, because we just needed the money for the asylum problem. That's why the apartments are missing. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] There is a magic word that has already fallen by now, i.e. supply and demand. In fact, supply and demand is also the key issue in living. I simply see the biggest problem in demand. Since 1985, we have had almost a million more households – just for memory. One million more households! That's the move, of course. Austria now has 8.8 million inhabitants, 1.3 million of them foreigners, and of course they all have to live. Another factor that is interesting or instructive: The average household size decreased from 2.8 people per apartment in the last 20 years to 2.2. There, too, in the destruction of the family structure, red, green and black helped. Now we have the result, that is quite clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Ha, ha, ha! But that's where you have to...! It's so far from here!]] The operating costs are also a very important point, which is always neglected a little. We have made several applications in recent years to reduce operating costs in particular. We asked for a fee stop, especially at community level. Vienna, that was a pioneer, has had all the canal, water and garbage charges exploded. The additional costs are exploded across Austria and are now partly a third of the rental costs. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: No word about real estate speculation! You're discrediting yourself, Mr. Worm!]] That would almost blow the frame now. I come specifically to our demands: What do the liberals demand in this area? – reduce demand, reduce the move, restore Austria so that people can also find apartments, promote targeted multi-person households, increase supply, build offensive in the social field, especially in rural areas – provide broadband, do not solve the problem of rural thinning – social construction, create youth start-ups, reduce voids, support property and make it possible to reduce costs, eliminate unnecessary building costs and reduce VAT on rent and construction. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's right!]] By the way, the biggest profiter of the rising housing and rental costs of the Finance Ministers is always overlooked. We also have something like a cold progression, that's not to be forgotten – that's like the wage, the salary increases. The profiters are the state and the finance ministers. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is crazy! The financial investors...!]] Targets of housing funds, especially in countries where green governance is part of, a uniform and simple rental right, and, and – there is a wealth of measures we propose to liberals. One thing is clear – the closing point for me –: Only if the liberals are in charge will it be possible to live in Austria. As long as red, black and green are on the row, reality is unfortunately another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7741	Next: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7762	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A short flashback: We have the year 2002, blue-black or black-blue is to the government, and the largest sale of non-profit apartments in the history of Austria went over the stage, decisive co-profiter was most likely Mr. Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Vetter: Not the worst years!]] Mr Brandstetter, you are in the process of criminalizing this largest housing deal of the Republic, which has led to the total cost of non-profit housing because many have been sold out, at work. It's got your handwriting, it's black and blue. [[towards FPÖ]] - Hopefully! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... has such a beard! Mrs Moser, the Greens know the problem well!]] I'll bet you: We Greens have been having for decades – may I please speak out? – point out the problem. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I've been a residential speaker since 1999. The Greens have, in close print, at least 20 proposals for living to be manageable, in at least ten applications for a number of legislative periods here in Parliament. For decades we have been pleading for it, for decades we have been making applications, for decades they have been in the committees, they have been postponed for decades because you do not want to. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Who doesn't want to?]] We have seen what Mr. Minister wants, but he can't because you don't want to. That is the problem. Parliament does not want it, says the Minister. I say it quite simply, the majority in Parliament do not want or cannot. [[Abg. Deimek: With a 10-percent party, nothing just goes! You just don't agree with a 10-percent party!]] That's what we're at the core. I would like to make a second flashback in the black and blue era: What was done with the financial compensation? – There was a easing or abolishing the purpose of the housing funds, the housing funds were no longer intended. This decision was also accompanied by the black and blue manuscript. [[Abg. Peter Worm: We have 2017, Mrs. Moser!]] The fact that the performance we now need was no longer achieved in the housing sector is also a problem. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 2017 we write!]] You can hide back. Check the minutes of the meetings of non-profit housing companies! [[Abg. Hauser: You have had twelve years!]] They pointed out that too little was being built at the beginning of the two-thousander years. There I am quite in harmony with my previous speakers who say: Yes, we need more housing to fit the offer! Only: We as the Republic – we as Parliament too! – must ensure that the basic costs are manageable. And there are possibilities, such as, for example, Mr Steinacker and Mr Singer have pointed out, I believe, through the Treaty Area Regulation, which is urgently in need of reform. In this regard, I have been making a request from Parliament for many years, but every time I ask when we finally decide – and for that the colleague also speaks from the SPÖ, and the colleague of the ÖVP is for that too – that is: This request concerning the organisation of the contract or the cheaper building ground is only made if we have an overall package! But – you know, Minister Brandstetter – the whole package is not only on the long-term bank, but it is just a historical element that goes back in the discussion of the world – and you are a lawyer, Mr. Minister – to the middle of the 1990s. In the Parliament library there is a collection of novels and reform of housing law, which was published in the era Michalek, and it is now on fire. The problem is listed in the guide value because the surcharges and discounts are not declared because they are, so to speak, fantasy. You said it yourself, Minister: We only need to get into the drawer and remove the criticism of the new housing law novel, which was written by Minister of Justice Michalek, then we see: That's not done! You are, Mr Minister, really sorry, I would like to help you, just: The problem lies not only with the colleagues of the ÖVP or the SPÖ, but also with the problem that in the background – and, Minister, I think, you can give me just as well as your very diligent employee, Mr Kathrein – powers are at work, which have the levers in hand. On the one hand, this is the real estate industry, I have to say almost, and on the other hand it is the tenants, and they do not come together, which is quite clear, because there is a massive point of interest, and this problem has to be solved by Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] We cannot continue to live with the fact that young families no longer find a sedentary living room. We Greens are not at all guilty of the divorce rate – just a small footnote to your remark here – so you think we are just an all-powerful one. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Well, please!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] That honors us, of course, only: There are other causes for divorce.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7946	Ladies and gentlemen, now you have to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7961	I therefore invite you once again to finally negotiate this green housing offensive programme, which has been in Parliament for years – and I also give it to Mr Minister. [[Keeping a document in height]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: A weak side!]] It is important to act here instead of leaving the poor people on the street. - Goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8005	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8023	Madam President. Dear Minister Brandstetter! Yes, dwelling is sorely expensive, we agree, but that is obviously also a question of perspective. For young people in particular, it is clear that in Austria, especially where they are moving, namely to the cities, it is difficult to find a manageable living space. The demand is increasing because the population is growing, and if it is moving to cities in general, it does not come along, even where it is necessary. But this has many reasons, and it has now been noted in the debate that we are not in agreement here in the House either in the problem analysis or in the solutions. One shudders about a market that in this way there is no such thing as living in Austria, because a quarter of the rents are formed only on the free market; in Vienna only one eighth. It is noted that the state intervenes everywhere, not only in the promotion of subjects, but also in the promotion of objects; it is even landlord. The city of Vienna is one of the largest landlords working there. But in what way are we already in agreement? – We agree on the following: Living is a basic need, living should be manageable, and we or the politics or state as such, as an institution, have the task of ensuring as best as possible that housing is provided. But we completely disagree on what we, politics, can at all contribute to what really leads to the goal and what we should contribute. The result is that the state in the area of housing is completely unsuccessful in a tragic way and policy does not do its job because our system in this area suffers from an overregulated misplanal economy. The central requirement of the Greens is to abolish broker fees, as we have heard. That is perfectly clear, we all agree, but that will no longer be an offer. This is certainly a beautiful political requirement, because for people it is quite clear that when the lease was concluded under the contract, there might have been more left, but no additional apartments will be created. We have a clear supply problem that is caused by the state. But this is actually something that we could actually change. Public and promoted housing is completely beyond the actual needs of the population. It's too large a bar, a corset of regulations and regulations, such as construction law, housing promotion catalogues and construction plans: All this leads to things getting too expensive. Young people with 16, 17, 18 years of age who move away from home do not need 70-square-meter apartment with underground garage space, they need quiet living space. However, the corset of regulations – in Germany and countries – is based on the fact that housing is too expensive that we do not create the supply that corresponds to demand. And there I have to say, even left ideology really hurts: We believe that we can create large apartments for as little money as possible. – This is not going to happen, this is voodoo-economics, and in this context it is also totally impossible to produce innovative, cheap and needs-based housing. However, the state fails not only in its own sphere of influence, but also where it really hurts the private. We have a rental right, which is to the maximum extent involved in private property, and this prevents large property owners from mobilising their living space and offering it at all – in a market that is not available at all! Existing rents can only grow with the inflation rate – even in Germany this is a bit more flexible – and this of course also means that older single tenants have the lowest housing costs and we suffer from the so-called Locked-in Syndrome. This is obviously also what Greens have in the national governments, because they do not directly implement the things they are demanding here today. [[Congratulations on the NEOS.]] Why did construction costs also increase? – We have a real estate tax, a real estate income tax, basic book registration fees and a construction worker holiday and settlement bank that has invested half a billion in securities. These are things that could save you, which could make building cheaper. All in all, it can be said that the housing market is not a market, it is characterized by state interventionism, and that right-wing socialism obviously competes with left-wing socialism, because everyone in it agrees: Actually, we only need more intervention, then it will work. – However, the interventions have led to the fact that living in Austria has become inconceivably expensive, that no one can afford it anymore. But they provide the answer: Then we may need other interventions! – I believe that is what one might call compulsory intervention neurosis in Austria, which obviously all suffer from the housing market. If we do not get away from it and are not prepared to question this basic attitude, we will not be able to solve the problems of living.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8091	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8112	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker introduces a panel to the speaker’s desk, on which stands under a green-blue logo “OÖ Wohnbau”.]] The topic of living has now been presented from various perspectives. I mean, first of all, we have to say, in principle, that in the area of housing, we also suffer from a handicap that is actually located in the government, and that is to say a standstill: Measures and reforms are only announced, but they will not be implemented – and of course the money is missing in this area. It is essential, however, that billions of money are not used for debt policy. Re-indebtedness keyword: One speaks of a structural zero deficit, but in reality the situation is quite different. The situation is also saddened in the area of living, but it is not opposed. Some even dream of getting higher standards cheaper. I can't understand that this is a denial of reality, because the reason why rental and housing prices explode is also that operating costs are constantly rising due to increased technical requirements. We have an superfluous bureaucracy everywhere, and this is also happening in the area of living, we must be aware of that. This is also true of building law, and this is constantly causing new costs. We need the money for the citizens and do not want it to land with the speculators. I believe that we must pay particular attention to this when it comes to the award of contracts that I will then be able to speak to. One word is also allowed to the broker commissions: Real estate agents are an official profession, and every dwelling owner and every housing seeker is free to use a real estate agent; he can negotiate a commission with the real estate agent. However, it is unbelievable to discuss empty apartments in this context, because it is precisely this problem that affects the brokers because they look on behalf of the owner of the house or the owner of the apartment to ensure that the apartments are rented as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and Deputies Peter Wurm.]] However, I would like to point out a very different point of view, which is why I took this panel with me: [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Unfortunately, it is also politicized in residential construction that the proverbial beams bend. There is a division among the government parties, one has the red dwelling builder, the other has the black dwelling builder, and the other is about exactly such a thing also at this table, namely, the non-profit OÖ housing. This is very up-to-date and was in the daily newspapers. It is wonderful that the ÖVP is setting up a non-profit housing company with Raiffeisen, but there is indeed a model-class client policy. It is still understandable that the head of Raiffeisen is chairman of the Supervisory Board, but it will be very difficult if his deputy is the head of the State Office – someone has to explain to me – and the managing director of the highly successful former Federal Farmer's director Markus Rosinger – a farmer's federal director who obtained his studies, who was then excluded, then had a joint venture in Romania and was then given political care again in this housing company, where he is now, as I said, managing director. Friends, you can now see how these gentlemen abuse the common good, because this is quite clearly regulated: Non-profit housing companies are responsible for the construction and administration of dwellings with a maximum area of 150 square meters or for the construction of private homes with a maximum of two dwellings or for renovations and administration, but if it goes beyond that, the consent of the state government is required. I believe that in this case the state government fails. Why? – The company's own head of state will not limit its activity. There we are again at the political swamp, which is the reason that much does not work. If we are thinking of the inequality of commercial construction companies, of commercial builders who have to provide the full tax, and of non-profit housing companies exempt from the municipal tax and corporate tax, then we know what it is all about. Finally, I would like to mention the figures – Madam President, I am already at the end of my remarks: The OÖ residential building has built 14 construction buildings, has 21 buildings. built houses, built 18 municipal offices, built 31 kindergartens, built 13 music schools, built twelve red cross stations, and 35 schools were built by non-profit OÖ residential buildings as well as five event centres. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps this is also a reason why we have such difficulties in the housing market: because there is not a goal-oriented work, but in the mutual interest, that is, client policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8196	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8218	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Justice Minister, I will return to the subject of quiet housing at the beginning of your opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! Living is a fundamental right, and precisely because of the exploding housing prices, this is always called into question because many people simply cannot afford living anymore. Especially single earners and young families, as we have already heard today, suffer enormously from these high costs. The basic share of costs and costs of construction and operating costs are the main price drivers. Not quite out of the question either. We can keep an eye on the brokers' commission, because it also keeps increasing the cost of housing. The latest calculations and statistics show that housing costs often amount to far more than 50 percent of income; therefore, it is very important – and this has already been mentioned by the colleague of SPÖ – that policy is jointly opposed. It must not be that, as planned, the guide values for rents from 1. April will be raised again, because people simply can't afford it anymore. The increases are between 3.4 and 3.6 percent, depending on the state. Living, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental human right, but at these prices living is no longer manageable for most. That is why it is very important for politics to oppose this prize-driver together and to develop a concept that – which was also addressed by colleagues from FPÖ – will once again have prices for apartments that people can afford. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8245	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8266	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Long-term living is an increasing problem, regardless of the federal state. Sufficient living space is often the basis for work. Residential companies, even though they are considered to be non-profit, are almost 100 percent politically oriented, on neutral ground only private renting is to be addressed. The problem of sufficiently sedentary housing has increasingly been intensified by the wave of refugees, with so-called residences being kept free. It is also to be addressed that private housing is deliberately kept free to cover family members' own needs, as problems arise repeatedly in the event of termination of the rental relationship. A price factor is further EVB costs, which were raised from €1.71 per square meter to €2. Furthermore, the operating cost factor must be addressed in the case of final settlement of a housing unit. If the final settlement is arrears, it shall be covered by the re-reference. With the re-establishment of a housing unit, it must be handed over free of charge by the landlord or the housing company. The rental costs of a financed housing unit are to be reduced by 30 percent due to age. New construction costs are determined by the land value and actual construction costs, taking into account size and equipment details, taking into account a sufficient number of disabled housing units. Therefore, rental costs can be significantly reduced by extending the repayment periods of the builders. Reference is made to the average period of use of a multifamily house of 60 years with simple execution. Housing companies, primarily aimed at social housing, are invited to offer quality of living, regardless of the political orientation, at fair, comprehensible conditions. Education and housing are the basis for a successful life course. The Federal Government is called upon to create appropriate foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8303	Thanks a lot. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:39:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8327	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8532	I also say that the 12th report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:40:01]] Application in accordance with § 49 para. 5 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8554	I announce that the Members of Parliament are Mag. Lettenbichler, Katzian, Mag. Mr Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, in writing, requested that item 13 be replaced from the agenda. This is the report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the Government Template (1519, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Ökostromgesetz 2012, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010, the Gaswirtschaftsgesetz 2011, the KWK-Points-Law and the Energy-Control-Law, as well as the Federal Act providing additional funds from special assets managed by the Energy-Control Austria (1527 d.b.) A decommissioning may be decided before entry into the agenda, but requires a two-thirds majority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution concerning the 13th reading. Agenda item. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I also note the required two-thirds majority. ==References== Agenda item withdrawn. However, the numbering of the following items will be maintained for reasons of better clarity. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8600	The debate on points 1 and 2, 4 to 6, 9 to 11, 15 and 16, 17 to 19, 21 and 22 and 23 and 24 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8624	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 115, FPÖ 106, Green 89 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 47 minutes. The President-in-Office of the Council had the prospect of reporting a maximum of two speakers per group for the debate on Agenda item 3. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club each 24 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the just-shown speaking time. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:43:12]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1457, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the E-Government Act, the Admission Act, the Federal Act on the Exhibit of the Apostille according to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Administration Organisation Act 2010, the Re-foundation Funding Act, the Corporate Service Portal Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the GmbH Act, the Notarial Law, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law for the the the the Law for the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1503, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Principles of Deregulation (Deregulation Principle Act) (1570 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8682	We shall now proceed to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Kassinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8709	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Agenda items 1 and 2 of today's agenda are the deregulation law and the deregulation principle law – the regulation of regulation of deregulation. This is from our point of view part five of the marketing show of the Federal Government: started with the New Deal, continued with Plan A, continued with the plan B by Federal Minister Schelling, continued with the work plan of the Federal Government. So we hear: Plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan; deregulate, implement occurs in these points until now. In addition to this marketing show, we argue on the side of the government. We observe – first row – foot-free, partly amused, partly in serious concern, because this should not be the task of the government – the matches – I say it by the way – between parliamentarians Auer and parliamentarians, the matches between the Federal Ministers Sobotka and Doskozil, the matches between Federal Chancellors Core and Foreign Minister Kurz – dispute, dispute, dispute. In our view, announcements, marketing and dispute are the interlocutory meeting on government work. Let's take a look at what the deregulation principle is about! There are general places that have been formulated there that are already subject to the handling of cabaretists, there is also a very good article in the “Wiener Zeitung” – that is, laws that give rise to fabric for cabarets. They are general places like – I quote § 1 para. 2 of the law –: “It must be ensured that the bureaucratic effort resulting from the adoption of federal laws, as well as the financial impact on citizens as well as businesses, are justified and adequate.” – No na! [[Call the FPÖ:Boah!]] You obviously have to write this into a law. ‘In order to avoid any further burden, any new arrangements resulting from additional red tape or additional financial impact shall be compensated according to veracity [...].’ Unfortunately, Minister of Justice Brandstetter has already left, but “after veracity” is the back door. This sets out the following: If it's not feasible, then don't! – So much for binding and relevance. As a lawyer, I must say, by the way, that the binding here is either not given or is not comprehensible; on the other hand, in all paragraphs, in all paragraphs behind doors such as the wording “according to veracity” are included – then it is determined that this is not feasible or not opportunistic, and then it is not done. What's that about? – For the so-called one-in-one-out rule, a fundamental thing, but I do not need a principle law that regulates such a thing, without implementation skills or without implementation effects. It continues with the Gold Plating: “In preparing for the implementation of European Union legislation, it is important to ensure that this commitment is effective” – how strongly is this commitment? – “that the specified standards are not overcrowded without reason.” – Again two rear doors, a general square with two rear doors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Sunset Clause, also such a thing: the withdrawal or the pre-determination of laws. Here's what it says: “The laws of the federal government are to be evaluated at appropriate intervals” – appropriate is a stretchable term – “and, where possible, they should apply only for a certain period of time fixed from the outset.” – Also “as possible” is absolutely undetermined. So, in reality, this is a marketing paper, put in legal form. As I said, the regulation of the regulation of deregulation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we lack in this country goes much deeper. There is a lack of a particular culture. In Section 1 para. 3 of this Act is addressed to the principles of impact orientation. We know from our own experience that we have no culture in our country to set goals, to plan clearly, to think exactly what effects you want to achieve with certain measures, and to evaluate the whole thing. Ladies and gentlemen of me, who are in the relevant committees – the Financial Committee, the Budget Committee and the Cetera – know that when I say impact-oriented impact assessment – there is a smile in the face of everyone – this is really highly manageable from the quality, I say it this way: no clear targets, sometimes no quantifications at all – and then one speaks of evaluation, i.e. a target is comparison. How do you want to do an evaluation if you have not determined this exactly before? So that already fails in the basic culture and in access – and that will not be possible to change with such a marketing law. I ask the Federal Government to: First, stop fighting! Secondly, stop asking yourself for something! Third, stop marketing and announcements! Stop regulating deregulation, and deal with the real problems of this country or leave it – better today than tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8757	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8778	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Is it already very matte, as Mr Kassinger has put it in his criticism here, and that has a good reason? [[Call the FPÖ:Well, that was great!]] The good reason is that this mesh, this propaganda – the government can't put anything on the rails – can't agree, reform stop. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's not quite true! Refugees...!]] Since a three-quarters year, Kern Bundeskanzler has been, and the remorse of the opposition, as it is only announced, there is nothing and more passionate about it, are somehow gone. [[Abg. Neubauer:... for ten years!]] The government is acting, the economy is beginning to grow. There will be a flattening of unemployment for the first time this year, we will have 2 per cent growth. You notice, of course, that your skins are swimming away, so the matte announcement of colleague Kassinger comes. [[Abg. New builder: Go! Go!]] No wonder: In the meantime, it is already being discussed whether Hofer should not be party leader instead of Strache. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Kassinger, Mr Walter Rosenkranz and Mr Stefan.]] Even our green friends discuss whether the party president, Mrs Glavischnig, should not be redeemed. – This is logical because something is happening in the country, and today is another example. I congratulate this condition because it is good for the country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] On today's agenda items: It is the FPÖ that accuses us that everything is so bureaucratic, and demands that we need a modern administration, that we can make everything much faster, failed and easier. [[Abg. New builder: on the topic!]] – Now there is the law, Agenda item 1, after which you can immediately create a one-man GmbH at the bank switch. Who's against it? – The notaries, colleague Stefan, the FPÖ as a whole! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the young entrepreneurs, the government is making this a red tape. Who's against it? – The free friends, that’s the best at all! [[Abg. Schimanek: No, please, my colleague...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ as well as ironic cheerfulness of the Abg. New builder.]] Think carefully whether you vote against or vote against, because you want more bureaucracy, no deregulation – or you agree! So, now for the second part, to the deregulation principle law that you made fun of: It is no secret that this was not the idea of my group in the government. [[Call the FPÖ:Come to Linz in the Posthof! ... a good cabaretist!]] However, we share the principle of principle, which Austria did not invent, that one should try and see whether, if new rules are to be adopted, old ones can be lost. There are three laws in England, New Zealand, and three in New Zealand. So you do it; then someone comes and says, There's a conjunctive inside, there are options when this can't happen! Mr. Kassinger, what else? They are an elected representative in a parliamentary democracy: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] What's in there? That your free choice, which law You decide not to apply any more, so how is the constitutional basis to be formulated differently? This National Council is a legislative body. There can only be said: as far as there is no reason for you to do something different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have known that so far!]] Only Houdini can bind himself so far because he can free himself, even if he is under water with thick chains. In other words, it is not technically at all, so the template is technically correct. Now the question is: Do we need them, or do we not need them? [[Call to the FPÖ:We don't need government!]] I think it's a good intention to do what you do, and quite one that a law-making body can have in the federal law paper. In this sense: Why do you vote against it? You are in favour of the content, saying that the conjunctive would not like you – well, that’s just that – then you agree, except you want Gold Plating, except you don’t want any provisions to be repealed – also an option! [[Abg. Kassinger: We vote...!]] [[Interlocutors Stefan and Walter Rosenkranz.]] I wish you luck in this political position.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e8980	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9002	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Right ahead: We see the reliefs for self-employed people who are in part positive. But I will now refer to the deregulation principle law, because it raises some questions already. One can now try to find a lot of reasons for this and go to arguments about what this is not for a great advance from the government, but I think that is a legislative light activity. Many of the content contained in it is already valid, for example regarding gold plating – I will go into it later on – but this law also contains fundamental things such as a requirement for justification for new laws. . I can only say to this, my group and I, we are considering every proposal whether a law is necessary or not and whether it actually works. This is our task as freely elected mandates. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another principle that stands in it is that a law should not impose unnecessary red tape and no unnecessary financial burden. – I don’t know, do you, as government groups, need a law for yourself, so you can think about new laws, whether a law imposes too much effort or a too high financial burden? It is the job description of all of us to consider this in every single decision here; for that you do not need your own law! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The government already!]] The same is true of effect orientation: It is important to consider from the outset what effect one would like to achieve and what action and what law is needed for this. You don't have to decide a law before that tells you that. That's what the house mind tells you – nothing for bad. In this way, it is a legislative light activity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the principle of gold plating, which in some way says Austria should not over-fulfil EU directives: EU directives are a minimum compromise, a minimum standard applicable to all EU countries. If we say Austria is not allowed to make gold plating, then we say that we want to be maximum average in the EU – maximum average! We Greens don't want that. We Greens want Austria to be in the forefront of the European Union in many areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I take out two areas: I think we are all glad that there are so many organic farmers in Austria. – That would not be so if we say we want to be maximum average, then we do not lie there in the top field. The same applies to the energy transition: If we say we want to be maximum average – we are now approaching the average again, because we are not acting – if we say we do not want to expand eco electricity, if we do not want to move forward in terms of climate protection, then this regulation on gold plating is also a shot in our own knees for our economy and for the location, because that is the chance for the Austrian standard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many of these regulations are unnecessary, I do not understand some principles at all, and I think if there are things that could be solved more easily – there are many, I think, for example, of the trade regulations – then we will do so, please! [[Abg. Kassinger: Don't bring anything together!]] Let us address the problems and the issues that are really relevant to citizens! These are improvements in the labour market, for entrepreneurs and for entrepreneurs, that is the energy transition. Let's finally do this, instead of deciding on what's going on here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9075	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9097	Madam President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Goethe once said: ‘Success has three letters: TUN” – for example, to create a capital company, to lead a business idea to success or to move ahead with red tape and to implement what is our topic today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] Mrs Brunner, I do not see legislative lucid measures, because we are doing something. For example, there are specific requirements for laws that you can now consult digitally at any time in the establishments. This is not a mean measure, that is concrete action for our entrepreneurs in Austria, Mrs Colleague. [[Call the Greens.]] This is also a part of the rules that are being implemented today. So: We're doing something. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Let me, because I have accompanied this bill for a very long time, come to the subject of the simplified creation of one-person GmbHs! We have a bill with which we today have a so-called banking solution developed jointly by many stakeholders for decision-making. The reasons for this are: easier reasons, digitalized foundation, discounted and accelerated foundation. Of course, we also want to get to the top of the international ranking with regard to the creation of businesses. In concrete terms, that means: The notarial obligation to set up a one-person GmbH with a model statute – that is to say, with a fixed, predetermined GmbH-foundation option – will be eliminated in the future. In the future, you can either create this foundation – the freedom of choice keyword – at a bank that participates in this system or continue to take part in the notary. The notaries meet us on this point, because such a foundation will only cost more than 50 € in the future. This is very little for this achievement, but a welcome, especially for young entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Steinbichler: But they are not enthusiastic, the notaries! Or don't you know any notaries?- Oh, my God!]] We can draw the corresponding statement of establishment with mobile signature in the future. The identification – and this is a very important point because of all the needs there is in relation to money laundering and social fraud – must continue to be made by personal presence both at the notary and at the bank, and the model drawing declaration must also be signed in person. This is a step in the right direction. Only when the transfer of personal identity to an electronic identity is safe enough – whether with biometric data or whatever the future will bring us – can you change this process completely. We have therefore tabled an amendment which has the content of the evaluation. By means of Sunset Legislation, which is provided for in the Deregulation Principle Act, exactly that is to be done – it should be evaluated in order to say in three years: It's a suitable model, we're expanding it! Or: It is not a suitable model because legal certainty may not be appropriate. Then we automatically change it again – or, if it is good, we will continue to develop it within the framework of these possibilities. We have also called on the Ministry of Justice, by means of a resolution, to allow the direct entry of companies into the company's book by notaries. We want to create the possibility that notaries can register directly within the framework of their activities, in order to relieve the courts, the lawyers. The Federal Ministry of Finance is asked to enable the so-called UID numbers to be awarded by electronic means as soon as possible, and to carry out the audit of companies more quickly. All this is to be done over the course of this year. That is, we have the effectiveness of this law with 1. In January 2018, it was agreed that the measures that we were still considering and proposing in the Committee could also be implemented in a timely manner and that a secure package would then be implemented. Freedom of choice: There are two possibilities, with additional power from the notaries, because they also examine the company's word. I think it is worth trying, in the sense of digitization, for our citizens, for entrepreneurs, to continue to take up this journey and, above all, to integrate modernity even further into our daily lives. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9151	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9173	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Of course, we welcome every step of debureaucratisation and deregulation, whether it be so small. A few small measures are proposed, which we will also support. But you can hold on: In particular, this deregulation does not go far, since it could have been possible to imagine more, but we are now taking it as an initial step. Part of the debate is also this great deregulation principle law – Mr Brunner has already referred to it. It is best to take note of it as a joke if there is: ‘On the occasion of the planned adoption of federal laws, it is necessary to examine whether the provisions to be adopted are necessary and timely.’ – Obviously, there are people who assume that we are adopting laws here that are not necessary and not modern. It's still in the law: ‘It shall be ensured that ‘the bureaucratic effort and the financial impact’ are ‘justifiable and adequate’ for those concerned. – Aha, there are laws with financial implications for the citizens who are not adequate, otherwise you would not have to write it in there. And great. ‘With [...] the implementation of European Union legislation, it is important to ensure that these are ‘not over-fulfilled without cause’. – So, Mr Brunner, you can already overfill it, but don’t “hold it for no reason”. There seem to be people in the government series who have the suspicion that we are running Gold Plating without a reason, and that is why you are now adopting a law – and that is not even binding, because you can always, whenever you want, violate this deregulation principle law. So, as Mr Matznetter said on television, it is like a New Year's plan of the average Austrian, and it is usually at the latest 7th. Forget about January and throw overboard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is exactly what we fear here, so I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9239	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9297	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9319	To avoid stress, I would like to start with the amendment tabled by Mr Cap and Mr Gerstl to the 2017 Deregulation Act: The amendment was distributed. The aim is to facilitate electronic transport between public and private bodies, to open the possibility of the requirement of encrypted sector-specific labels also for use in the private sector and under the same conditions as in the public sector. You can read anything else if you see it in front of you. In any case, the application has been submitted. Now to the discussion here, perhaps to the most important point, because it has now been brought down so much, to the Deregulation Principle Act: If I understand this correctly – and I always try to understand what the government is doing on initiatives – then this is the sum of all the criticisms that have been expressed by the opposition parties and the media over and over again. [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] That's what you've written in. Now I know, it's without sanctions. You can see that from different sides, but you sit down and say: Yes, you have to evaluate afterwards and you have to think about the need and the reason before. – This is all that is constantly required! Right now: If you're in your constituency, what do you hear when anything happens? - Make a law! Make a law! Hurry, a law, a law! – A law is always the solution for everything and everyone. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, no!]] [[Abg. In my constituency, they say, put it into practice!]] – Do you go into your constituency and hear nothing at all? You certainly don't hear this demand? - Well, that may be too. Anyway, I hear in my constituency, I must honestly say this demand. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is usually done, you sit down and make a law. Then again, many of you say... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The last host I was in, didn't say, makes a register!]] – You have such a concerned look, Deputies Rosenkranz, but also from you always comes this opinion: Don't we have too many laws? Isn't that a justice? What's going on? – All of this you get to hear again and again. Well, then you sit down and make a law in which you write down all that has been criticized of our legislative activity, you make a sort of target. This is also a self-apple for those who are just on the government. [[Abg. Cashier: A self-proclaim!]] - It's not bad! But it is also an appeal to you, because you also often decide on laws in which some citizen asks himself: Oh, my God, what did we need that for? So, and that's it, and that's how I understand. That is why I do not understand why this is criticized. Are you criticizing the criticism that you yourself make as criticism?- Oh, my God! - Well, I don't understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] As I said, I'm also trying to understand you. I'm really trying to understand you. Why not? We want to discuss and perhaps even come to a consensus. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A little more effort!]] But that's where I have to say: I don't understand that, although I'm trying to do it. You know, I'm really pressed together, but I can't. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: More effort!]] Otherwise there are 25 debureaucratisation and deregulation laws. You should take this much more into account in your speeches. I suggest something for the opposition: Catch First, with the positive points, that increases credibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] You don't have to sing Hosianna, but just say: That's positive! For example, this baseline of deregulation and de-bureaucratisation is positive and digitalisation is also in place in state communication by, for example, replacing RSa and RSb letters by means of electronic inputs and by simplifying many things. That's something we all want. We want a civil society that is close to the citizen, so that the taxpayer is satisfied and can say: I pay for that, I know why, and it's positive. - That's all. I believe that we should work together to meet this concern in an understandable way. This is really an appeal – also to the opposition – to make a contribution to understanding not only to me but also to the citizen. So try a little!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9455	The amendment tabled by Mr Cap in the broad outlines, which is distributed in the hall, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9571	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9592	Mr President. The Lady and the Lord on the Intergovernmental Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! It was very funny to hear the remarks of Mr Matznetter from SPÖ earlier. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, yes, it's really funny!]] He threw nebula grenades in the direction of the liberals that there was a competition towards Greens, where there is a party dispute. It could have been believed that the government behind me is now sitting behind me and the core and the middle-leighers are smoky sitting on the bankerl – so they love themselves. Mr Matznetter, I don't know: Something has passed by you, because the game that the government is currently driving testifies to anything other than common action! Let us now come to the bill concerning deregulation law, ladies and gentlemen: Last week, I left the committee out of protest on Monday, because this procedure, which the government groups have shown in order to implement the Federal Chancellor's plan, namely simply driving over it, was and I do not think it is all right. Ladies and gentlemen, let's break this up on our tongues now! 48 laws were discussed in the Committee with four ministers. In a quick procedure, this was whipped through in four hours. It is true, however, that seven specialist committees are affected. I wonder, What have we been able to do if we cannot even discuss the issues properly and if we are simply going through them in the Constitutional Committee? I've just learned from an employee that you've done this again. We have protested against it now, and I hope that the government will once be taught. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! What is it really about? – administrative simplification is a positive thing. There are a few positive points in it, but I think it should have been discussed in the specialist committees so that we could have given a proper opinion on this. But that didn't happen. So what's this about? . We have the proposal here to apply the rule: one in, one out. That is, when a new law comes, an old one is taken out. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe we'll make it a little easier: First of all, you have to make legible laws. It might have failed. And: We should not make a new law for any senseless one, but perhaps bring some of the shit that is contained in our codebooks really on the dunghills. That would be a procedure that I think would be correct. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let us take a look at this law! What's in there? – You can see that herb and beet are mixed: There is an eGovernment law, the delivery law, the tax administration organisation law 2010, the corporate service portal law, the piping law, the power driving law, the worker protection law, the bakery worker law 1996, the parent protection law, the child and youth employment law, the home labour law, the disabled employment law and, and, and. These are 48 materials, ladies and gentlemen, mixed like herb and beetroot. And this is to be implemented as Plan A of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, whom he has carried out over you. Ladies and gentlemen, I say: Fast work of the government is positive – but not so! I believe that as a parliament we have been removed from the government, and I am sorry that the ÖVP has made a core of the plan A of the Federal Chancellor. I have already said this in committee: In my view, this procedure is absolutely unacceptable. Even if there were a few useful points inside, we cannot, unfortunately, accept this proposal for a law under these conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9635	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate colleagues in plenary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen who follow us through live stream! That's what you hear: via live stream. Ten years ago I probably would not have said this because the technical possibilities were not yet available. Ladies and gentlemen, the working world, our lifestyle, the technical and digital innovations, all this is different today from the time when many regulations have been adopted. The challenges of the working world, which we are all facing today, require flexibility and, above all, quick decisions. Positive initiatives must be supported and must not be hindered. Businesses and their employees need to be relieved, not to gnaw through no more modern regulations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy, premeditation and overregulation are in excess in Austria. There's too little of what there's to be seen. This law precisely regulates: It will be less bureaucracy in the future, less regulation .................................................................................................... It's going in the right direction. For businesses and citizens, it brings less bureaucracy, simplified administrative processes and more electronic communication with the authorities. That's what we've heard today. A total of 25 laws that are simply no longer modern are amended with the Collectionovelle. Let me perhaps represent an aspect: the GmbH-foundation. In the future, it is no longer imperative for the GmbH foundation to contribute a notary, which not only speeds up the founding process but also makes it cheaper, Mr. Stefan. However, if one gets back to a notary when one is founded, a significantly lower tariff is paid in standard cases – and around 38 percent of the approximately 10,000 GmbH founders a year. As I said, this is just an example of how to make life easier for people in the future. Another essential aspect is to restrict the flood of law in general. You can make yourself here now and make fun of it, but it's not funny. On the contrary: It is necessary, and this is a law that goes with time. We have heard today that a one-in-one-out arrangement, a Sunset-Clause definition and also specifications for avoiding gold plating should be established. What does that mean? What does that mean in German? – That means: For each new scheme, an old scheme will be abolished as far as possible. Laws are passed on a limited time-limit and regularly review their sense of meaning – I think that too is a good access. And when implementing EU directives, it is ensured that one does not shoot beyond the target and that the standards laid down are almost exceeded. Austria is more papal in many areas than the Pope, we know that – the word Allergenverordnung: That's not necessary. Austria is one of the few countries in which the hostess was almost forced to adjust their menus in detail. In other countries it is enough to go to the host and give this information. That's all we're aware of. With this law, we are responding to it, ladies and gentlemen. I think this law fits very well in the season. With this law we open the spring dirt in the regulatory jungle: ventilating, dedusting, defoliating and leaving more air for people to breathe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9705	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9726	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Deregulation law sounds good. Mr Matznetter has already said: Federal Chancellor Kern needs a success. Therefore, one has to find a good headline and mention the deregulation law and deregulation principle law. – That sounds really interesting. Perhaps he didn't understand, but we agree to the deregulation principle law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Listen!]] So the polemics went completely empty. However, the criticism remains, of course, in so far as it would not be necessary to give itself the task of checking from now on whether Laws are bureaucraticly required or have a proper financial impact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You should have listened to him, that's difficult!]] We have not yet needed a law to ensure that directives are not overcrowded, because no one has forced us to do so, as even the colleague has said before me. So we have not yet needed a law, but we agree, because it is nothing wrong, what it says; only, please, with confidence: that it is now a solution to anything that you could have done and that which no one has prevented, that is already a little weak. This is not really the mess and, I do not know, the new milestone, the great success, but these are simple and simple self-evidents, which are now also cast in the form of law. We therefore agree, because we believe that there is no way of rejecting self-evidentness, but we are therefore breaking out of enthusiasm, Mr Matznetter, I am sorry that you are not bringing this together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Call of the Abg. Schimanek.]] So, on the one hand, we have the Law on Principles and on the other, the Law on Deregulation. As has already been said, there are 48 laws that have been gathered together and which have been very artificially gathered in a washing-up. These collective laws are in their own right, and that is something that we have often criticized – and not just us – because this leads to things being really not discussed properly, but that they are just gathering things together – whether in the budget-accompanied law or in this case too – overwriting a headline and putting things under a hat that really does not belong together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] Mr Hagen has already said: One could not really discuss it properly, because then the technical committees would not negotiate it, but it would be done in one, at a meeting of the Constitutional Committee, which then lasts three hours and is discussed in the 48 laws. Everyone can imagine that this is not a really good discussion. – It starts once. Then the measures taken there are partly good, partly not good. Of course, this is so when you're throwing so much. That, for example, one doesn't have to hang laws in companies anymore, yes, that's really great, I'm impressed that we're doing that now, I think that's right, but that's far from saying that we're actually going to implement a deregulation in this Republic, then, if at the same time, at the same time, we're partly reducing security, for example, when amending the Delivery Act: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Just as it is formulated, it simply leaves questions open to the question of how the electronic delivery really works. This is problematic because the citizen cannot choose how to communicate with him. That's the problem. If the citizen wants to choose a digital way by himself, then from me, but if the authority chooses a way that may not be safe, then this is problematic. And we all have recently come to know what it means when, on the Internet, in the electronic field, not only have intelligence services, but also private societies have all possible data, have access and can read it. It's very delicate. That is why we should discuss such a thing sufficiently. Austria is indeed a pioneer in all these areas, thank God; that is true. We have the basic book and the company book in a way that no one else has worldwide. So we are really pioneers, and it is also important and right to do so, but that was also carefully examined at the time. There was a year-long forerunner, then it was changed. You have thought about this very carefully and then made good and on a safe path. Now you want the quick success, even though you know you're not ready. For example, there is a major project in the Ministry of the Interior, for example, how to carry out a technical and content redesign of electronic identity management. This is a big topic, but there are real professionals at work who think: How to do this in a safe way, and these have serious concerns. The experts in this field are even the biggest critics. They say: What we currently have with mobile signature and citizen card does not correspond to what we wanted to see as a safe standard. The citizen card is very delicate because everything is to do with it because there is no restriction. [[Abg. Matznetter: Oh yes! There are restrictions!]] All these things are highly criticized by these people. This will also be discussed and, hopefully, there will soon be a solution. I am also very much in favour of doing so, but with the current state of affairs you are not yet ready. In this context, Mr Matznetter's brief communication also fits: Yes, the GmbH can be founded at the bank switch in the future. – I think that says a lot. We really want to support companies and entrepreneurs, but in reality we do not do that if we overregulate them, and that is the big problem. As a tax advisor, you know for yourself how the effort for entrepreneurs has increased in recent years and decades. Being a businessman is the problem; To become a businessman, yes, we should simplify that too, but that is not the big problem. However, I am firmly convinced that there should be certain standards, because the company's book also has a certain quality that lives on the fact that the things presented to the company's book have also been examined accordingly. And it is important that everyone who is a founder also knows what he is doing, that he is informed and warned. I know from my own professional practice, which has already been mentioned, that it is very often the case that people – and in particular those who have relevant personal liability – do not know what is on them, and that, when they teach them, they will not be scared and will not come anymore; or someone else will. If I don't make all of this with a personal declaration of will, but with a mobile signature, then someone else can do it for one. It can then push it, and it is not rare women who, you have to say, are being pulled in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That's a really delicate subject, and you shouldn't wipe it away like this and say: Yes, you can relax in the future. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The people who want to take advantage of this are happy that they now have a way of going through without personal control, and then we have again the people who suddenly come to the handcushion who did not know exactly what was behind it. [[Abg. Kassinger: (in the direction of Abg. Matznetter, with two fingers showing a corresponding width) The liability of the GmbH is such a book!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] There is, of course, also abuse now, that is not a question, but to worsen it, and to increase the inception for possible social abuse, in the money laundering sector and so on, I simply lack understanding. You have to look at it first: Do we find a safe way? Electronic: yes, fast: yes – no question; in reality, the company book is incredibly fast. When it comes to it, there will be entered within one, two days. It works glaring. And the financial argument has long been from the table, because there are also very clear offers. It is also implemented that, for example, a foundation costs 50 € in a standard dimension. So that this is a financial disadvantage or an obstacle or something else is not an argument for someone who really wants to start a business. That's not the problem; the problem is that you don't get a UID number fast enough. For example, this is not solved. Yes, there is the proposal that you should examine this. But these are the real problems: that an entrepreneur cannot take into account the fact that he has founded, but has to wait three or four weeks for him to start seriously at all. All of this is not taken into account, but it is said here fluffily: At the bank switch you can create a GmbH. There is a serious concern that the quality is simply swept away, because one wants to have a short, fast success rather than in-depth examination of electronic traffic, which is really forward-looking, because I am full of it – to accelerate where it goes and where it is useful and necessary, but not to ignore the quality and safety of people and also not money laundering and so on. This is a very essential point, and it was important to me to say that because it is getting so loosely wiped away. Since we think these principles of deregulation are good and this proposal for a law is essentially addressed to the Federal Government, we now also want to give the opportunity to take the evidence that you are serious, because we have recently found out that some members of the government who have made proposals in recent years have felt good, represent themselves, in part, as if they had invented them themselves, and therefore I make the following request, which is to give the opportunity to act – we have heard it today, it is about doing – instead of letting words follow: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e9946	Mr Matznetter! You know that it is not my job, and I am not even allowed to interfere in the debate. My job here is to deal with the session properly. In this sense, I note the motion for a resolution, Mr Magistrate. Stefan has just submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10192	I would also like to congratulate Mr Stefan on the acrobatical performance of producing the connex on the facts we are currently discussing. Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10216	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values Advisors! Debureaucratisation and deregulation should actually be our top goal. We all know the debate, and we have now heard in a word that we are always saying: It's too complicated, it's too quick, it's too much, and we're supposed to change it now. This is now a step in the right direction: that we are trying to make laws clearer. As far as the accusation is concerned, this is a law that has been broken over the knee and that was suddenly there, I ask you: Why, then, have there been working groups in advance that have worked under the aegis of the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media and have considered what can be taken out and written out of the sum of the laws as a succus? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Hagen: What is the result is the question!]] They have defined central projects, and the central projects are also our projects. And – don't be angry! – to all those who do not want to agree here: Are you really opposed to a service improvement for citizens? Are you really opposed to a discharge from entrepreneurs? You are against increasing efficiency for public administration, which is often the principle here, and the expansion of eGovernment? - I don't understand at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] I would like to refer to two points. Firstly, the eGovernment. Austria is very far ahead in the eGovernment in Europe and even among the first five worldwide. What prevents us from further improving it? – We are in the age of digitization, and if someone wants to do his authority by electronic means, he should also be able to do so. Mr Stefan, I do not think that an authority, if I send a letter as a citizen, will write back electronically if I do not have any electronic information. So I don't have these fears. [[Abg. Kassinger: It's just happening! It's just happening!]] After all, there will still be the way of the letter, for those who are not so migrated to the electronic media. It will simply be a shorter step between citizens, administration, entrepreneurs and the authority. We also know this with regard to the delivery, how long it takes for it to work, and I already have a time advantage when I can do it electronically. It is therefore a good thing to say that all companies are to be obliged to do so at the latest by 1. January 2020 to receive electronic delivery documents, because on the one hand, it should apply to citizens and allow for improvements, but on the other hand also to businesses. When I look at the public administration and the courts, I see that the solution is a better and faster one. It is not only a financial saving, but also a time saving, as the following number shows: Currently there are 110 million deliveries a year to courts and public administrations. That is, there are possibilities for improvement, and that is a step forward. Second, I would like to mention briefly the exhibition of the apostille. We all know how difficult it is to get an apostille on a certificate, one runs from one office to another. In the future, the citizens will no longer be running, which is now taking place in the electronic media. We know the situation with regard to the issue of the documents and know how difficult it was to issue an electronic document; without this famous, well-known seal of office, there were difficulties at that time. In this respect, it is already in this law that we have already come to the fore and said: We see that we regulate the electronic apostille in advance, that you can also add it without a media break, without in between I need other inter-certifications from the individual Federal Ministries. In order to have a certain degree of security, one makes one's own register of information on who has the legal basis to issue an apostille. I think that this is an important improvement for both citizens who need a certification, an apostille on a document, and for the office. Of course, it also helps to improve international cooperation – because the apostille is usually linked to international cooperation. I think that these parts – I have tried to bring them closer to you now – are a clear sign of continuing to dive into the digital world.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10281	The next item is the speech by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10305	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Agenda item 2, to the Deregulation Principles Act. You all know, we have a deregulation law from 2001, which is a quarter page. [[Keeping the printed text in height]] And now we have the new deregulation principle law, which is half a page. [[Keeping the printed text in height]] I thought: What is the difference? – There is actually a point, namely: Now there are quality criteria for laws. It says that one should pay attention to “consistency, understanding, perceptibility, comparability and verifiability. ” Josef Cap said we should find praise. So I find once praise for the entry rate of this law – I quote –: “On the occasion of the planned adoption of federal laws, it is necessary to examine whether the provisions to be adopted are necessary and timely (...) – So to be able to formulate such a fundamentally significant sentence deserves our utmost respect. Thanks to Josef Cap. But now I come to the point of quality criteria. I am relatively long in politics, and since I've been sitting in the country day and now sitting in Parliament, I always play the same record: We need to make our laws easier, to understand, to make deregulation, to debureaucratize, to beat people with laws, so it can't go on! Now it's inside, and I'm thinking, Now I'm optimistic, maybe this time I'll succeed. – In the 2017 Deregulation Act – this is one of the many laws you want to decide then – there is Article 4, the amendment of the Federal Tax Code. I would like to read a passage from it and ask you to check it for your claims in laws. It says – I quote –: ‘The Federal Tax Code, BGBl. No. 194/1961, as last amended by the Federal Law, BGBl. I No. 117/2016, is amended as follows: (...) Paragraph 48b is replaced by the following: 3 added: ,(3) 1. The Federal Minister for Finance is responsible for the transmission of the main number register authority according to § 10 para. 2 of the EGovernment Act, BGBl. I No. 10/2004, as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 50/2016, requested encrypted area-specific person identification services (vbPK-ZU) (a) a contracting authority of the public sector (§ 5 para. 2 of the Data Protection Act 2000), (b) an approved delivery service (section 30 of the Submission Act), (c) a company that has a universal service (section 3 Z 4 of the Postal Market Act, BGBl. I No. 123/2009, as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 134/2015), and (d) an operator of a display module (§ 37b ZustG) (b) the competent authority of The condition is that the Federal Minister of Finance for the requirement and transmission of the vbPK-ZU using the one participant in FinanzOnline from the tax authorities in accordance with § 1 of the Financial Regulation 2006 – FOnV 2006, BGBl. II No 97/2006, as amended by Regulation BGBl. II No 46/2016, Participant Identification, User Identification and the Personal Password provided for this purpose Ways of electronic request.’ Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, is that understandable? - I think it's unbearable. [[Abg. Lopatka weighs his head.]] What we produce here and what you decide here is unreadable, partly incomprehensible. That's why my appeal is: Let This “Beautiful ” Sets, we make simple and understandable laws! – For the Protocol, I may hand over this small paragraph from the Federal Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10387	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10408	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The former clubman Josef Cap has already tried to interpret the meaning of this law, the man legis, for us to show what is meant for it. My previous speaker pointed out that we sometimes actually fail in what we aim to do, namely that the laws will be easier, especially for the citizens who have to do with these laws. However, the President has also included the Liberal Party's motion for a resolution, and I would therefore like to respond to this motion for a resolution. First of all, I would like to thank the Freedom Party for making an essential contribution to bringing on the agenda today what our foreign and integration minister Sebastian Kurzwicht is about: the public service ban on headcarves, its commitment to the fact that family allowances for children living in the EU are actually adapted to the respective cost of living for families on the ground, that social assistance should not be provided immediately to non-Austrian citizens, but only after five years. - Who's not for that? We just haven't managed to do it yet. – Furthermore, the establishment of German classes for refugees, the termination of accession negotiations with Turkey, as Turkey has unfortunately developed in a direction where, to the honourable Member, Pilz is concerned with the Greens, what is the point of having accession negotiations with Turkey, but also the establishment of asylum centres for boaters in order not to put people at risk of entering Europe via the Mediterranean. [[Abg. Loacker: On the matter!]] Mr Loacker, the motion for a resolution has been debated, so I am talking about the matter, and the debate here is about Pro and Kontra and not just about reading prepared speeches. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am telling you that the increasing problem for all political groups, including the NEOS, is that Sebastian Kurzin presents these questions in which direction it should go. And I'm glad when the consent is very broad. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Your consent?! That's what we're looking at today!]] But the second point, which may not be so familiar to the liberals – I am already at the end of my speech – because they have not cooperated, concerns the “work programme of the Austrian Federal Government”. [[The speaker keeps a copy up to date.]] You may not know the “Work Programme of the Austrian Federal Government” so well. [[Call the FPÖ:Oh yes!]] - Yes? Do you know what's in the Preamble? Because that's something you really do not care about now if you want to seduce us into agreeing with you. It is clear that: “The cooperation between the SPÖ and the ÖVP agreed in this Treaty is considered to be completed” – and we do not want to end this cooperation! “if a coalition party’s will in plenary or in the committees of the National Council is taken by members of the other coalition party.” So we certainly do not vote against our coalition partner, because we want to continue cooperation. That's the important thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I would also like to say quite clearly to Mr Strache, whom I warmly welcome in the plenary session, why we cannot agree with what you are presenting to us today in a natural vote. But I thank you once again for making this advertisement for Sebastian Kurz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10519	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10540	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! First of all, I would like to correct Mr Matznetter with some kind of actual correction. Unfortunately, he's not in the hall, but he meant that only Houdini could free himself. But of course he has forgotten James Randi, the first winner of the Heinz-Oberhummer Award for science communication, who masters this technology at least as well as Houdini. – It was important to me to mention that. Deregulation, of course, also includes simplification of business start-ups. Such simplifications are to be welcomed, but the extent cannot be taken entirely critically. Deregulation, which does not go far enough and consists essentially of editorial changes, prevents real improvements, almost a little as homeopathy prevents effective therapies. Of course, I do not want to put it in the same way, homeopathy is commercial fraud, nobody knows it better than the woman's minister of health, and of course one cannot say about this law. I would like to start where Mr Steinacker spoke about the founding benefits according to § 9 for GmbHs. By determining that the managing director is also the only shareholder, it is excluded that legal persons can also use this simplification. This is a given possibility. One could, of course, have extended this simplified foundation to GmbHs, which are founded by legal persons. Especially here – also in the direction of colleague Stefan – it is true that very often this step is carried out by someone who already leads a GmbH that, so to speak, does not need the assistance of a notary. But I am right in the matter that this relief does not necessarily lead to more and easier foundations, because the cost is not actually what it is all about. So with multiple-person GmbHs and standardized statutes, this step would have been possible. In total, these laws are, of course, much too small a step, but they go in the right direction. In the area of business start-ups, the extension to legal persons should be much more important: the scope of the mobile signature can also be extended to standard GmbHs with model statutes, the bureaucracy for current companies must be reduced with a single trade certificate or electronic applications, et cetera. One would have to talk about the obligation to publish in print media – the hidden financing of the “Wiener Zeitung” via the advertisements would also fail. In any case, as far as business start-ups are concerned, we would seek relief to a much greater extent by talking about business forms. There are ideas in the direction of Klein AG, Start-up AG and a GmbH Zero. And we can already ask ourselves the question of how modern A parent capital of a GmbH is still present and what you need it for. It is still the wrong idea in some minds that this stock capital is in a safe and is taken out in the case of a crisis to satisfy the faithful. As a rule, however, this money is already gone very soon after the establishment, and the managing directors and shareholders have to ensure the necessary liquidity of a GmbH itself through personal liability anyway. Furthermore, the size of the parent capital of a GmbH is completely arbitrary, withdraws completely from any evidence and is also far above the European average. So: real simplification through the discussion about an update of the popular GmbH and also the AG with easier transfer of shares and acquisition of investors especially in the founding phase! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10586	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10607	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak once again on a point which concerns this deregulation law in principle. We have a collection oven here, which includes 25 novels. These 25 novels concern seven different ministries, and yet this collection novel is assigned to the Constitutional Committee, although only three of these 25 novels come from the Federal Chancellery. For the discussion of these 25 novels, including the deregulation principle law, only two hours were foreseen in the Constitutional Committee. We therefore obviously have to do not only with a deregulation law in principle, but also with a deregulation of the uses in Parliament, if there is so little time available to seriously discuss novelties. Of course, of the ministers who were concerned, not all the time had to come to us; hence, superficially, the treatment of these novels has failed. I would now like to speak on two points and give two reasons why we will not agree to this law. The first concerns the eGovernment Act, to which an amendment has still been tabled today, that private companies should also have a personal identification mark. That is not to be seen from our point of view. It is already true that private companies collect too many customer data. We have the general problem that huge amounts of data are collected and customers mostly do not know what the companies know about them. I do not see why such data collection, data collection, should be further state support. This is the first point on data protection. The second point – that has already been mentioned – concerns the delivery law. In principle, electronic delivery should be possible, but in the future the third notification, which would have been out of date, is missing. So far, one has had the yellow paper in the mailbox and a two-week period for collection at the post office. With the new law, electronic delivery is deemed to be delivered from the first working day. In the future, I will also receive a notification of a document to be collected, but the burden of proof of whether I actually received this notification lies with me. You certainly know this yourself: Prove that you have not received an email! This means that legal protection is restricted, legal protection is not adequately respected, and this is also criticised by the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, I have very little time to speak today, but these are two serious points why we will not agree to these two laws. Other colleagues will speak of this item on the agenda. In principle, once again: Dealing with such collection ovellas, with such huge bill packages, which will then be handled in a non-competent committee in two hours, is unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10652	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10674	Thank you, Mr President. – A law is now to be passed, among other things, to make future burdens on businesses more bearable in so far as a different burden law is being deleted for each new burden. This sounds very funny at first, but in reality, when you look at it closely, it is also quite childish. I pointed out in the Committee that we can compare this with a household in which there are a lot of shoes, and I intend to get rid of an old couple with every new pair of shoes I want to buy. In fact, this only works if I actually have too many shoes. If I have the appropriate shoes for every occasion, i.e. sports shoes, sandals, semishoes, rainshoes and so on, but nothing else, then it will be a problem if I think I need, for example, boots and throw away another pair of shoes. What pair do I give away? What does this comparison tell us? – Obviously we have too many shoes. We have too many laws of burden. I think it would be more useful to go through these laws and remove the unnecessary ones. The difference to the shoes is that shoes are positive, but additional loads are somewhat negative. I'd say, Let's bring them to a sensible level, everything else is pretty childish! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10704	Mrs Mag. Honey's next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10725	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Another detail quite to the end: Today's decision no longer guarantees that workers will be provided with important information on occupational safety at their workplace. They are neither printed nor electronically provided, colleague Steinacker, via guaranteed internet access, they are simply deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Union Confederation, the AUVA and also we Greens see this as problematic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] There will no longer be a low level of access to this information at work. I am surprised that the ÖVP agrees with that which actually goes towards self-responsibleness – without information it is difficult to do so! What do you expect from it? – A savings of € 2 million in Austria. This means 10 € per company. Look at what only one accident at work causes! Is that in a meaningful relationship? Is that really paying off? We don't think so. [[Abg. Small:... Labour Inspector!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know that prevention has definitely failed when we have to make up for something after that. This is a principle of health policy, security policy and social policy. I do not understand why you are now starting to question this in terms of worker protection. Workers' protection is an important task. 10 € Saving per company, this is a bad business for the affected workers, for the health system and ultimately, you will notice, also for entrepreneurs, because standards for occupational safety bring something to everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10768	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10789	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Deregulation Act 2017 brings red tape and forces e-government. Less bureaucracy for businesses and citizens – a right approach. Simplifyed administrative procedures and more electronic communication with the authorities, these are some of the key points of the new law. - So far, so good. With this law, a total of 25 new laws take place. There are also very good approaches. However, I have great concerns about the simplified start-up. After this change of law, companies can be established by means of a citizen card or mobile signature. My question to the Minister for Justice would be – unfortunately he is not here anymore – whether abuse can be excluded. The simplified GmbH-foundations will only be possible from 2018 onwards, and the legal provisions will have a term of three years. One important step I see is that Mr. Justice Minister Brandstetter will review the GesmbH founding by notaries once again. Mr Harald Stefan referred to: The costs are manageable. I'm over-explained that everyone is for a quick company start-up. But everything must also have its accuracy, and this requires an advisor, a notary, a specialist, so that no formal errors are made. That is why the re-examination by the appropriate Justice Minister is an important matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10820	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10844	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! Changes to the GmbH Act in connection with the company start-up: In principle, the reduction of bureaucracy is to be welcomed, but not all that is specified by the legislator or is now to be reduced under the title of red tape is to be described as a red tape reduction. To address specifically is the establishment of a one-person GmbH, in which the only shareholder is at the same time the managing director. The creation of a GmbH, on whatever basis, requires knowledge, which has been largely mediated by notaries. A legal Enlightenment is of particular importance. Now, the identification of a founder by means of a citizen card, mobile signature and a bank in which the cash is collected is remembered. It can't be there. It is assumed that banks are able to provide legal information. In addition, the power to do so should be questioned. If a cost savings are now expected to be made at the time of the establishment of a bank institution, it must be noted that the costs incurred are more than €240 higher than those of the notaries, taking into account that the previously usual notarial costs have been reduced by 50 percent in the run-up to a decision by the National Council. If one assumes that this legislation is due to a deeper reason, different reasons can be assumed, with a question to be made of the continuing high number of long-term unemployed people in the AMS who have been identified as unemployed in their own self-employment. The result is short-term insolvency or high economic damage. In many cases, the notification of insolvency proceedings is no longer possible in the absence of a large number of cases. If it is assumed that a period of observation of three years will be introduced, this reflects an uncertainty of the legislator, so that the application in the form of the government template and the amendments cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10880	Mr Klubobmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e10902	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In concrete terms to our motion for a resolution and to Mr Klubobmann Lopatka: The issues that we are sometimes discussing today through this motion for a resolution are topics which we have considered important for almost ten years and which we have recognized as necessary. If one had been heard here from the beginning on to us liberals, then many misdevelopments and problems would not have arisen in this republic. Unfortunately, one has not listened to us, one has rejected innumerable requests on these issues that have been brought here by the Freedom Party – and the ÖVP has always been very big in its rejection. Of course, there is the question of credibility and also honesty to be assessed and addressed. With regard to the head-cloth ban, there were countless applications from the FPÖ on this subject. Of course, it would be necessary, especially in kindergartens, in schools and in general in the public service, where the problem is given, to use a head covering ban and, for example, to protect the girls in the kindergarten. There are 150 Islamic kindergartens in Vienna alone! Who agreed? – The SPÖ, the Greens – and the ÖVP were everywhere in agreement with these 150 Islamic kindergartens, concerning which now the initiative Liberal Muslims Austria, their President Amer Albayati and others holding, came warning to the political parties and said: Please take it seriously! That should never have been approved, so you have to withdraw the approval! Parallel and counter-companies of a radical Islamic nature are forming, and you are allowing this! Girls are cared for by fully veiled kindergartens, and the girls themselves are already coming to the kindergarten with their headscarf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] Later, in school, they are required by the fellow students to wear a towel. The young boys are already standing in front of the school and saying: How are you dressed? Too much skin is visible! That please stop her, otherwise who we put on the appropriate pressure that this will change! - You have to listen to it in the schools. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need action, but this government, SPÖ and ÖVP are not ready to do so. This is this dishonesty when one goes here and gives empty words in the public with phrases for the best. If you at least pretend to be the copying machine of our liberal ideas, you must at least mean it honestly and implement it. That is then called active repentance, and that would be necessary: active repentance regarding what has already been done to damage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] - That's the point! If you then take off the side of the ÖVP a placebode debate to the headline ban, where you say that you can imagine it for police women, then this is dishonesty, because, fortunately, the problem doesn't really exist. If, of course, it is everywhere in the public service and above all in kindergartens and schools, so that the problem can also be removed accordingly and that you can act there and protect the girls. In connection with the adjustment of family aid – we have lost hundreds of millions of euros in Austrian taxpayers, although we have been pointing out for years that this is to be discontinued, but again all FPÖ applications have been rejected – I wonder: What are you waiting for? – You have the damage to answer! They were responsible for this in recent years and today hundreds of millions of euros are being paid to children who do not live in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to social assistance: Of course, it is only after a five-year period of residence, during which you have also been paid into the system, that you are entitled to benefits. This is not illegal in the EU, which applies to all, including Austrian citizens. That should be a matter of course! That means that to implement is a question of will, but in reality you don't want to. The same applies to German classes for refugees, but also to mandatory German preschools. Both are necessary and for years a liberal requirement. Of course, the whole – the stress test that we have naturally begun and will continue to do today – can also be continued in terms of content. In 2015, we experienced that more than a million people were illegally admitted to Austria because this government was not willing and willing to protect the borders. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Schenk and Mr Lugar.]] This caused massive damage of a sustainable nature in Austria. Today, we have more than 50,000 people who are illegally resident in Austria, of whom we know where they live. They belong postponed – but the Sobotka makes a 1 000-€ travel agency check, which is ridiculous and none of the people concerned will say: I do, because after a year of illegal residence, he gets the minimum security. There you have to work with a feedback centre à la Switzerland and say: Those who are illegal here come to the repatriation centre for at least up to 19 months, but can leave at any time in advance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it would work as in Switzerland, but not in such developments. One still maintains an asylum limit of 37 500. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] – And that with the overloads that we already have, starting with 2015 – the Fiscal Council says that costs us 20 billion €; please, where will the money come from? – up to all the uncertainties of crime development. That's where you have to say: It burns the hat! There is no time for any empty words, as it is about the immediate implementation to finally get these problems under control. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today you have the opportunity to prove whether you think it is honest, whether you live active remorse or whether it's again empty dictionaries and you're putting on the copier to verbally present a show in the media, but in reality it's not going to do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] The Austrian citizen also recognises it when it comes to honesty. That's what it's all about: Who's the blacksmith, and who's the blacksmith, who's the cheap, false copy? – That’s exactly what it’s all about! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This shows how important the liberals are, because through our continuity over the last twelve years, after years of defamation of the Freedom Party, you at least have to admit that we are right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a very important point once. Through our pressure you have had to realize that we have arrived in the middle of society, because more and more Austrians want to give us freedom and know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] But at the latest once again you can see confirmed as it has been confirmed in the last 12 years: It will only be implemented with us liberals. This will also be the signal that citizens understand. [[Abg. Wöginger: You want that!]] Only the next time we get the strength to overcome this government of democracy policy will we have the opportunity to finally implement this content in the interests of the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Wöginger.]] This, of course, is also about many other issues in which you live dishonesty. What about the Salafists who can distribute the Qur'an across the streets through Austria? – There is a general ban! What about the Muslim Brotherhood, which is not banned until today? What about the club structures that exist in Austria, within which radical Islamists meet and organize, radicalization progresses, recruitment progresses? What about the ban on these clubs? Why is there no ban on foreign financing of these associations to date? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why can the Saudis or the people from Qatar subsidize these cultural associations in Austria to this day, and you look at them and haven't stopped them to this day? – This is an endless chain that you can continue! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is exactly what – up to the IS fighters who have been in Syria – indicates that you are still not ready to withdraw from citizenship in a consistent way, when they try to return, and then at least take them into custody at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] – No, they still run free in Austria – hundreds! – and live as ticking time bombs somewhere in Austria and may be terrorist at any time. This is the danger that we are currently talking about and that we must deal with. There is also no support for a foothold, as we have seen in France, when, for example, the one suspect who has headed the priest in the church, with the footing of this act, has put this terrorist act. There won't be any shackles to help, they're just placebo decisions. And that's exactly what it's all about making visible who it means honestly and whoever's willing to implement clear positions, and who's not ready to do so, but who recognizes it out of purely tactical considerations: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] Hold, the liberals are right, the citizens are giving the liberals the right, and now we are at least pretending to have recognized it! – But I say: At the latest today, we have revealed this falseness once again, and we will, of course, also explain it to the citizens, because working in this way is not an honest basis for the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11064	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to a series of votes which, as always, I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 1: Draft Deregulation Act 2017 in 1569 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Dr. Cap, Mag. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Mr Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to in the motion for a resolution and on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted. Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 1 introduced. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary and amending amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 4 to be introduced. I ask those Members of the House who are for this to be a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall be voting separately on Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 23 and 25, as amended by the Committee's report. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The vote will be taken on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees with this draft law at third reading? – The law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the resolution accompanying the Committee's report in 1569 on accompanying measures to speed up and simplify the creation of enterprises. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. (E 192.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft law on deregulation, title and receipt in 1503 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues on necessary and timely deregulation principles. Who agrees? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Stefan, colleagues, with regard to the rapid application of the deregulation principle law to serious problems in Austria. The vote has been taken on this subject. This request was made by 20 Members, so the vote must be taken. As always the information on this: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. Please note that you will only throw a single poll; You know, sometimes these polls stick together. I now ask the author, Madam President, to begin with the name call; Mrs Korun will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11242	The vote will end. I call on the House staff to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the authors. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I still allow myself to welcome the young ambassadors for UN children's rights of Caritas Vorarlberg to the gallery. [[General condolences.]] The young ladies and gentlemen have the exhibition in the column hall “Warning! Children’s rights’ with the giant children, with whom they make unmistakably aware of UN children’s rights, designed and transported here from Vorarlberg. Thank you very much for your initiative! [[General condolences.]] I am now interrupting the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11303	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the results of the vote. Members cast: 165; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 40, No votes: 125. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Head, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 166, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 40, ‘No’ votes: 126.]] [[See correction by President Hofer p. 126.]] The names of the ladies and gentlemen are, as always, recorded in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. The Members voted with ‘Yes’ (corrected version): Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brückl; Deimek, Dietrich; Franz; port plotter, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, moucher; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Kumpitsch; Lasar, Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Gift, Schimanek, Schrangl, Stefan, Steinbichler, Strache; themesl; Refusal torpher, Worm Peter. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Bernhard, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klug, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kof, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernoster, kilnauer, oillinger, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince, Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Schallhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tamandl, daughters; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Willi, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl. [[12:23:50]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure 6GOG-NR on the request for the establishment of an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR on the "Eurofighter Typhoon" fighter aircraft system (3/US/1582 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11511	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. According to § 33 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure, with the inclusion of this item on the agenda, I expressly propose the setting up of the committee of inquiry on the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system as amended by the 1582 Committee Report of Supplements to the Committee on Wednesday, 29. March 2017, at 12.24 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go into the debate, I still agree to welcome the members of the committee of inquiry who were appointed by the Committee of Rules of Procedure at the gallery yesterday; the Dr. Ronald Rohrer, as a trial judge, is the court councillor Dr. Philipp Bauer as a procedural judge, Dr. Andreas Jolik as as a procedural lawyer and mag. Michael Kasper as a Procedural Advocate. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you every success in this activity and all of us a good cooperation together! There has been no oral reporting, so we are going into the debate at once. First speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11559	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger told me that professional students from Linz are here: I'm allowed Welcome to our high house in the first place. [[General condolences.]] It is always important if youth is already interested in this House – we always call it the hort of democracy – in which politics is designed. – Thank you for visiting us and nice stay with us in Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the transition from old law to new law regarding the committee of inquiry was a real paradigm change, because we came, in particular, from a political committee to a purely legal committee. I have said in the last debate here that from the beginning – from the announcement of the Federal Minister for Defence over all the processes up to the present day – all the political groups have been behind this committee. I would also like to say that we have made such efforts. Madam President, the outcome was a special presidial, in whose context we have said that we are trying to take advantage of the time in order not to allow weeks to pass unnecessarily. I believe that, with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure yesterday, we have also shown that, when we deal with this issue together, we could be reduced by several weeks. I am convinced that, in this way of consensus, there is also a common approach to this certainly not easy work, that not only has the new law really proved itself for the Committee of Inquiry, but it is also a sign of the House that it is taken seriously, namely the control of the administration with all the forms. I believe that we are called together to carry out this so important task in the interests of the Austrians – if you want to do so – in the coming weeks and months, even the taxpayers in all forms. However, I would also like to refer to the way in which I have been a member of several committees of inquiry and therefore know how it has been. I would like us to do this task, which is ahead of us, very easily, very objectively. There are a lot of colleagues in the committee, which I know not only from the plenary, but with whom I have already been sitting together in committee of inquiry. I assume that we will have a very constructive climate between the political groups, and I really hope that we can deal with these questions, which naturally affect and move many people in our home country, very quickly and in a reasonable period of time. The essential difference is – and I mentioned it briefly at the outset – that the new right to investigation committees is a real legal structure. I'm just trying to express this once again. We should be committed to justice! – see that we also carry out our task, as we, as legislators, have given it to us. We are all part of the overall policy – we already know that – but I also know the political discussions of the past. The Committee of Inquiry has often been overpowered by old law. As one of those who have also cooperated to bring the new right to the road, I believe it is important that we can also implement the requirements we have given ourselves in the interests of the whole house. I would like to invite all of you, including all the colleagues of all the political groups who will be working here in the next few weeks and months, that we really do this in the spirit of the House. I am convinced that we will also have to discuss some question at the group leaders' meetings, but I assume that we can also resolve these questions reasonably. However, I do not wish to say once again that a new quality has become visible and striking at the beginning of the task force report to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport. From this time to the present day, we have actually carried this new line together. This is not a matter of course. It's our common will. I would just like to point out that yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in fact, went over the stage in a very consensus-oriented and efficient way, including from the time of the economy; not only is this a quick start to the date, but also the points that we had on the agenda – I am saving myself for time-consuming reasons to list them all, because they all know them – namely that we are very quick to raise the question as well: How many mandates have been clarified in this committee?, who have voted in favour of the motions for evidence and have voted for the gentlemen who have already been welcomed today. Madam President, I would also like to thank the three Presidents for the fact that the common interest in the preliminary talks has also been in the foreground, that the discussions have been very targeted and that together we can judge them equally, so that in the coming weeks and months, depending on the duration of each file, this central question, which we have been in our Republic since – yes, so it can be said – 15 years, can sometimes lead to a final solution, which can be said from a human point of view: Now this is up-to-date, and then we devote ourselves to other topics! I assume that you, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who will work with us in this committee of inquiry, where we will spend a lot of time, will always put the joint emphasis on this work and that we will really come up with a solution which is also to be represented from the time spent. I know you can always get on with something, it's not about us looking at the time, it's because we're not going to create this really easy task together with a reasonable approach and consensus. I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so very warmly, that we are very constructive and successful in this work. I really don't want to say, I am looking forward to this work!, but I have great hope, since in the last few weeks it has succeeded in taking the community on the journey, that we will succeed during the committee's daily work. And I believe that, as we have now jointly assessed the last few weeks, as all the factions behind it – also behind the Minister – that we have a chance – and that we should not give up lightly, but take advantage of it – that we should lead this central question together to a successful conclusion. Again: thanks to all those who have worked here in consensus for the last few weeks. I would like to thank the President once again and, above all, I would like to invite all of you who will sit in this committee, including our employees, to a good cooperation in the interests of our beloved homeland, the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11644	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11665	Mr President. [[Abg. Kogler: Congratulations!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, today a new investigative committee is being set up as the Causa Eurofighter. My colleague Otto Pendlhat has also said a lot about the new Rules of Procedure. I think we have already shown in the Hypo-Research Committee that the new Rules of Procedure work very well and that it also contributes to a consensus of the political groups. If Mr President-in-Office had not done so, I would have warmly welcomed the four gentlemen in the gallery, from my group's side, to the House. [[Abg. Bösch: He did it!]] I hope you also know what is happening to you when we work together in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, because one thing has to be said clearly: All those – and I am looking at colleagues Angerer from the Liberal Group – who last sat in the Committee of Inquiry for over 18 months, know that it is a very intensive educational work, but then, in addition to party political controversy, it is always a very encouraging and very consensus-oriented cooperation. You have to say that. This will also quickly be recognized by our Mr Procedural Judge, Mr Procedural Advocate and by the two alternates, namely the characters of the individual leaders of the political groups and the individual Members in the Committee of Inquiry, for I believe that this will also contribute to a certain group dynamics in the investigation. It is almost the second round to clarify the political responsibility around the Causa Eurofighter. It is a well-examined Causa – from the Court of Auditors, but also through the establishment of a task force. There was an investigative committee in 2007, which has already worked intensively on the procurement process and on the counter-actions. That is why we will, of course, deal primarily with the comparison of the Minister of Defence in 2007. I think there are questions to be resolved, such as: Why didn't you get out of the contract in general?, or: Why have you left out new or new devices and taken used ones?, or for example: Why have you ordered equipment that would actually be necessary to operate combat aircraft?, or also: Why has maintenance contracts been terminated? That means: We will cooperate intensively. I can only say to my group: We will be very constructive. There will not be any fungus-fest games, as it has said in advance, nor will there be a political show – as was the case in the last committees of inquiry under the old Rules of Procedure. This excludes the new Rules of Procedure. Mr Pilz, you are and remain the discoverer of the nation, and I know very well that you know your responsibility. In conclusion, as Mr Kogler has called for a congratulation: Other people get great gifts for their birthday, I get an investigation committee today. - That's something, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11724	I'm sorry, but now you've given me the opportunity to congratulate you on your birthday. Next word: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11749	Mr President. Appreciate Members of the House! Before, of course, from my side all the best for my birthday, Mrs. Colleague! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Kogler: This explains my call!]] I can welcome fellow countrymen from Lower Austria, who are visitors to the liberal groups from Traiswall and Prinzersdorf. – Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[We welcome the FPÖ as well as representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, this committee of inquiry has come about because the minority law, which has been re-established since the last committee, has been perceived by the Greens and the Frees. As there is the discussion: Well, if new elections come, then it'll stop immediately, and what's happening here is just a short theater donner! I can tell you at this point: [[Abg. Hoefinger: Super-discussion!]] The liberals will insist that, no matter what choice and when it is, this investigation committee will in any case continue if the information has not been fully carried out. [[We welcome the FPÖ as well as the Moser and Pilz Members.]] I also express my great hope that, after the next election, the liberals will be able to do this on their own – 25 percent of Members, if not even a third, so that you can put forth a little effort and effort in your constitutional laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of this committee of inquiry? – It is about the chapter Eurofighter. Otto Pendlhat said something very nice, namely that the result of the task force of the Minister of Defence, which led to a criminal complaint, is at least € 183 million in damage to the Austrian taxpayer when this penalty leads to success. The new quality – and now we come to the question: How was the old quality? What was the old quality in dealing with Taskforces and one that has already been done in the Ministry of Defence under Minister Darabos and Minister Klug, both of whom have listened to your group? [[towards SPÖ]] All those who know Minister Darabos know that he has not made this comparison, which he has concluded, only on his own political drive. [[Abg. Fekter:... State Secretary!]] No, there was a German chancellor Gusenbauer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] By the way, this is the former German chancellor Gusenbauer, who is now the great advisor to German Chancellor's main actor Coren. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You know: 95 percent staging, 5 percent work. We already know where this Federal Government is going. So there's a lot to explain. It is really not to be seen why the Republic of Austria, represented by the Minister of Defense at the time, ordered something expensive and beautiful, a new car, a very great model, and then, when there are difficulties in delivery, says: Then we take a cheap “used car” – under quotation marks. The Court of Auditors has already made it clear: The comparison, which was completed, has been to the detriment of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Fetter: (applying nodding) Yes! Yes!]] That's what has been found. But what we are talking about in a committee of inquiry is the political responsibility to be borne here. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] It is also not to be seen that a minister and the managing director of Eurofighter can make up when an investigation committee is being held here in the House. I am already excited about the statements of the then clubman Cap and the clubman's bowl about how this message: Now it's over! It has been delivered by the Minister concerned. One last thing, since it is always mentioned that we liberals are afraid that any shadows could fall on the black and blue times of government No, we don't have that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] We liberals under HC Strache have ensured that all those who have participated in arbitrary painting have agreed by the Freedom Party because they wanted to do nothing about our clear, honest, clean way, but have wanted to enrich themselves under some circumstances. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There will be merciless reconnaissance in all directions, and I would also like to take this opportunity to say: There will be no Peter Pilz show, but serious Enlightenment.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11912	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e11934	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz, you do not have to be afraid of me, it is a normal investigation committee. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well not!]] As a minority, we have used it, which I believe was very, very important in order to preserve all the rights of the minority; we have succeeded. I would also like to express my thanks to three who were very important for the status of this committee of inquiry: the Minister of Defense with his advertisement and his task force, Mr Pendl, who has supported it significantly from minority law to the setting up of the committee of inquiry, and the coffee I was allowed to drink at Klubobmann Strache, which has contributed substantially to the common benefit of this minority right. Sometimes it's a coffee, this time it's more about, it's about the biggest corruption in the Second Republic, and about the chance not only to explain it now, but to bring it to a positive conclusion for Austria. With the announcement of fraud, for the first time, the suspects of Airbus and Eurofighter are brought to trial – as suspects of crime and not as victims. We will also refund another advertisement in the coming weeks because of the formation of a criminal organization by Airbus and Eurofighter. With the parliamentary investigation, we now have to clarify together, after it has been turned off with the majority of government parties in 2007 – and now we are going to do so: How could Eurofighter and EADS and Airbus be so easily cheated on the Republic? Were the ministers, the delegates and the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Defence too stupid and unqualified? Were they so easy to deceive, or were some of them involved in the deception? – We want to know. Of course, we are talking about the Darabos comparison, because I am also interested in why the then Minister of Defence did not get out of the treaty, although he could, and we will be able to prove it. There are still many explanations, but in order to prevent Darabos from entering a contract, which was possible, there had to be someone who concluded the contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] And that's not a secret – two other parties: the ÖVP and the Freedom Party. To what extent today's Freedom Party has something to do with the then Freedom Party: We will not make a child-moving investigation committee, but of course we will ask exactly who was responsible at what time and how far this responsibility goes in today's times. - Of course. We then have a third major task, which is important for a particular reason that I will address immediately. We have to get the money back, as much as possible – at least € 1 billion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Representatives of the FPÖ]] This is tax money, for which people who have never wanted 15 pieces of flying lubrication money must stand straight. The money has to go back, so we have to clarify everything, especially what happened in 2002 and 2003. Whoever wants to prevent us from this reconnaissance – I don't care if it's a foreign minister or anyone else, or a flight from the reconnaissance by new elections – and whoever thus puts the whole Republic at risk of not bringing at least one billion € from Eurofighter and Airbus back to the budget, he takes on a very special political responsibility. I'll tell you one thing: We will be very careful in this committee, and I am sure that all of us, including the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ, are on our side. We will jointly ensure that everything can be examined, and that ideas such as: We could examine Darabos' affair for so long until new elections in autumn!, do not fall on fertile soil. That is why I expect that soon, together, we will set very many committee dates, that we will work very intensively before the summer and get into the areas not only of red, but also of black and blue responsibility, and that we will clarify everything together. [[Abg. Wheelers: Otherwise you have no employment!]] We have made a common promise, the Freedom Party, the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the Greens and others: We will not take into account party interests! I also think we really want this together. We will convince the public that we as Parliament represent exclusively the interests of the Republic of Austria, clarify everything together as soon as possible and then see that we are getting the money back. [[Abg. Wheeler: job creation!]] I warn everyone who is trying to let party interests from outside the Parliament enter this parliamentary investigation and turn it off in advance. The investigative committee in 2007 has been turned off, and I swore at the time that the rulers do not get away with it, whether from Airbus or from politics. This has worked, we are investigating again, therefore again: There is no escape from responsibility, either by new elections or by any other refusal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We'll figure it out until the end, and we'll get the money back. I am already grateful to colleagues from all the political groups that we are going to do this together for this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12015	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12038	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I hope not to crash too much the harmony of the previous speakers, but I am already surprised: One is to initiate the process of the Committee of Inquiry in a consistent manner, and this has been very successful. I can assure Mr Pilz that we, too, are interested in keeping as many committee dates as possible before the summer, and also as many points as possible before the summer, so that it does not become an information gap due to a breakdown of the Committee of Inquiry by early elections. I also understand that, when you were at the first time and when you were shooting, you swear to continue to follow the topic, but the picture, when you look at the topic of Eurofighter, is the same thing that we have had for the last three, four years – on the topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria, on the topic of BUWOG and on the topic of Telekom. They are not just the same systems, but they are partly even the same people. To me personally it is, honestly, no matter if it was a SPÖ, ÖVP or FPÖ functionary in any form, but now we have one that I call name, because it is also constantly conjured up in the media: Mr Rumpold, who has already been sentenced for other matters, who has also received € 6.6 million from the Eurofighter, who has arranged press conferences for € 90 000 per appointment. – I ask: Who goes and looks at the system? Of course, we must, on the one hand, step by step, load information person into the committee, on the other hand, we should urgently start to draw lessons from all these scandals – and I do not hear very much. There is not enough harmony in my mind. With permission, and now no one here in the hall is supposed to meet personally, but it's a giant boar when you read things through. And: It's a system, it's not a single player now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] - Well, if you look at the individual points. I have the feeling that as long as we have two parties that share government responsibility, the system remains the same, only the colors change, and as long as only the piglets change, but the system does not, as long as the Republic has won nothing, and there we have to get started. [[Call the ÖVP:Na! Come on!]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12114	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I have my kind day today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12142	Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker presents a panel entitled “Replacement Parts” on the speaker’s desk, on which five rings are depicted.]] I did not know at all that Mr Bernhard was among the agricultural speakers, but I think in all seriousness, we know how difficult these processes, which led to the establishment of the first U committee, were, and what all happened then when he was strangled. The flood in Lower Austria had an impact on the procurement. I mean, it's very interesting that the number of interception hunters was reduced because in Lower Austria there was flood. [[Abg. Höfinger:... dramatic!]] If one now considers that it is then to be used for this speculated variant, non-useful planes, without night vision devices, where essential instruments are missing – thank you, Wolfgang – that we have to borrow aircraft for modern flight shows, then this is not to be surpassed with embarrassment. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... night vision devices!]] I can clearly say: In addition to these costs, which have been postponed, in addition to these lobbyists and consultants who have been paid, we naturally have the subject – and this is a very important issue – which the ongoing operation has still caused in terms of costs. I've mentioned this lately. That's hair-threwing! €500 million is missing in the defense budget, which is extremely burdened with this running operation. Therefore, this spare part list again. [[The speaker points to the panel standing in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] Quite simply, as said, without lobbyists and without consultants at a company bought in Wels 10,80 € costs this ring in the middle, 88 000 € have been charged. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] Mr Pilz has already said that these are the numbers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Where do they come from? – Mrs Fekter! [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] As Minister of Finance, you know how to freeze budgets. [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] And the side panes...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12226	Deputies! I assume you will take this back to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12253	All right, you want me to take this back, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12283	I can also give you a call for order, because we don't have to discuss for long.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12298	I'd like to take note of the call for order if it's not different if you can't say that...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12331	All right, I'll give you a call for order here, and I'll ask you to be moderate with personal attacks.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12357	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to go on. If you know what payments were in there, and if you know what was done here, another example: Maybe you can say that halls have been rented out. [[The speaker holds a panel in the height, on which is a hall with the title “Eurofighter Typhoon” and a Eurofighter.]] They were referred to as ghost halls in the investigation committee, for which €2.5 million was paid per year, €2.5 million for four years! And then you can't say how to freeze something? Then I don't know what to freeze, but that doesn't matter. I would like to say very clearly: This is about tax money, this is about hard-earned tax money, and the Federal Government has the highest obligation to deal with this tax money carefully. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Any euro that has not been properly used must return one to one interest rate to the state fund. I think it would have been ideal if it had always been done that way, even with scandals. Now I have to mention the Hypo Alpe-Adria: If all the operations had been worked in a clean manner, we could have saved ourselves such committees of inquiry. What do you think of a housekeeper who, with his wife, laborlessly scratches the euros with his family so that he can finish his charming home when he reads such processes, such numbers when he hears something like that? He'd never be able to build a house, he wouldn't even come in. I think that's the essential thing we've been discussing all day. We have experienced it in residential construction, we experience it in all sectors that is easily handled with tax money. That's why I join my previous speakers. Everybody's got to pull on a line here! But one thing I do not let apply that those who had the responsibility say: Well, now we're all in debt. That's so weird, isn't it?- Oh, my God! There's a builder who falls into the house. He runs from it and says: I can't help it. There's all the blame. We have 3 000 builders because we have already talked about the builders today. I am not aware of this, so those responsible in this committee of inquiry need to be clearly defined. That is the objective of this Committee, and we need to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12414	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12436	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the house! Especially my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TVs or the live stream! They have been very clearly identified – and I think this is very positive in principle – that the majority of the political groups are interested in a truly serious process in history. Almost all the leaders of the political groups have argued very objectively, and have also made clear: This isn't about a political show, it's not about personal profiles. One could have this fear at one time or another, that once did not occur in the first round. We feel that this is very positive, because it is a matter of revising the political responsibility which, contrary to what Mr Pilz said, does not, of course, delay. It remains, in fact, contrary to the criminal responsibility of the courts. We will also not clarify any payments – repayments, compensation payments – in this committee, but the courts will clarify this. This is simply not the Committee's task. We clarify the processes, we clarify – and that is very essential – those errors that have happened. Why? – The Republic will continue to make procurements in the future and will have to make procurements in advance; that is, errors that have happened are to be clarified, and from these mistakes we must all learn together. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Bernhard, I was not quite sure with you, but I now know: They were not yet in the house at the first Eurofighter investigation committee, at that time important parts of the NEOS were still part of the ÖVP, so you can not Know that what you've been talking about has long been investigated. [[Abg. Bernhard makes an unintelligible gesture.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to this in-depth work. I do not understand one thing: the fears of new elections raised by almost all opposition politicians. I can calm you down, this fever shock seems to be just in the opposition, don't worry. In any case, we are looking forward to the very objective work in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12487	The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schönegger, I can calm you down: We liberals are not afraid of new elections – unlike you perhaps! Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject: A new legal quality has been created through the display of the Federal Minister of State Defense against the Eurofighter companies, however they may be historical. This has led us to agree with the Greens to the establishment of this Eurofighter Examining Committee. We want to take a close look at all these processes, which have not yet been examined, from 2007 onwards. If this accusation, which Doskozil raises in this ad, applies and if we find a judicial confirmation there, that means no more and no less than that the Republic has been deceived than that we have all been deceived. And then, of course, one has to make the bow to the creation of the contract in 2002 and the developments that have come after that. The accusations against this Eurofighter investigation committee, we would investigate twice or we would interfere with the investigations of the prosecutors. We will not double-check, we will continue where, in 2007, due to the decision of the then government parties ÖVP and SPÖ had to be stopped. We will have to explain the form in which a political responsibility exists by the then Federal Chancellor, Vice chancellor, by the members of the Federal Government, by the club members, by the Secretary-General in the Federal Parties and so on. This will be the task of this committee of inquiry, and it will not hinder the activities of the public prosecutors in Munich and Vienna. The prosecutors in Munich and in Vienna – we have heard from the respective speakers – have already taken significant steps towards an indictment of managers of the Group. It is expected that these investigations will be so extensive that, in the coming year, charges will also be expected, in respect of illegal payment flows, which are to have taken place within the framework of this Treaty settlement with the Republic of Austria. This letterbox company network, Vector, seems to have been discovered, and we will also be interested in this as a Member who, in parallel with these investigations of the prosecutors, will clarify political responsibility. I believe that the public prosecutors in Vienna and Munich have already achieved successes, and we will not disturb them with our work at the parliamentary level. I'm convinced of that. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals want full information on this matter. We want, if judicially the accusation of deception and fraud is hardened, the recovery process, and we want to, when it comes to reprocessing, All of this also contributes to the recovery of the money wrongly paid by the Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12554	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12575	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be responsible for and managing the Examining Committee! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow it is already unique today, this confession to the Enlightenment, this confession to restitution, this commitment to cooperation. I've never seen this before. I'm curious if it keeps. They are our witnesses: Please also take the floor of the Members of the majority groups, that, when it comes to the conduct of the Committee of Inquiry, we can work really determinedly, precisely and optimally so that, to this end, all of us today, the damage is recovered and that 1 billion € is recovered on the legal basis. We have two levels. I do not want to spread much of my political responsibility, I am concerned with reparation. However, I am also concerned – and this has still not been mentioned so much today – with the consequences, because we also have legislative amendments to prevent what happened in 2002, in 2003, in 2005, in 2007. There have been massive violations of the law on the one hand, but also violations of the law on the other. And I recommend all of you: Read again the minority report of the Green Group of the time – it is not too long, 60 pages, and offers a good overview – and you will see what it was doing at that time! That is why I pay attention to the fact that as a result of this Committee of Inquiry, we are advocating a kind of anti-corruption package that we are also transforming what is now in evidence into craftsmanship, which prevents all of this from repeated. I can throw a few flashlights on what shouldn't repeat. It should not be repeated that in the case of tenders, target criteria disappear or new ones arise, must criteria at once no longer play a role. A must have been the delivery dates, a must criteria were the operating costs. There were effects on the Commissions – and at one time that was no longer relevant. In the future, we must prevent a beekeeper from falling, for which a single criterion, which in 2002 was not even spirited as a soll criterion, namely 18 half-yearly rates as a payment criterion, was decisive. I have read this again; my hair is relatively short, but you can only pick up your hair if you look at how this happened. And that must be avoided in the future. Or if you read more: At that time it was decided to buy a type with fixed delivery dates, where you knew exactly that at that time it cannot be delivered – cannot be delivered! It was originally intended to agree on a transitional solution as a condition; at once, after the chancellor's breakfast: We don't need a transitional solution, it's not an issue! – But it was a subject before. It has also been known at that time that the Saab flus are much cheaper in operation. That was at one time – I have already mentioned operating costs – no more criterion, no more decisive. This F-16 suddenly appeared overnight in the financial resort, an offer of light, which allowed only the way for the Eurofighters. I do not want to give all the examples now, 16 could I give you, 16 examples of infringements of the law, 16 examples of infringements of the law have already been listed at the time. I do not want to repeat this in all the details now, I just want to point out that we must have transparent procurement procedures in the future as a consequence. In May or June, we will be able to decide on this as part of a new procurement law, which will also work in the military field. Transparency is at all the key word. The Minister has already said publicly: In the future, there will be no lobbying in military operations. – Military operations are a limited business area anyway, because there are usually not so many providers, but there are nothing more lobbyists to look for. A call from the President of the Court of Auditors was also: no more counter-actions in the future! We know that, and we want to keep that up, and I would like to take you to the floor in the future: Let us decide this as a follow-up from the committee, which is now allowed to continue its work, which was no longer permitted to him at that time, because we were already on the right track! This trail has already brought a lot; unfortunately, the majority have not followed this trail, stands there today and says: Yeah, we want to! – That should have been earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12626	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12648	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's a scandal, you can say that quite clearly: 184 million € in tax money have been fried here and flown in a dubious manner into various channels. It is important to examine this very clearly. The announcement was justified by the Minister of Defence, and now a committee of inquiry has rightly been set up which will clarify these operations. It is not, however, as has already been falsely claimed here in previous debates, that there is a limitation – with the ad no longer delays – but that is the political responsibility. And political responsibility will be examined and clarified accordingly in this Committee of Inquiry. I am not here with my colleague Pilz, who here speaks of the greatest scandal in the Second Republic, because we have already had others who have already forgotten: AKH scandal, Zwentendorf, and afterwards I come to a very large scandal that is very up-to-date. But, of course, I would like to see the political responsibilities shown in this committee. A subject that has already migrated through the media is the former Minister of Defense Darabos, who in his time has received funding from EADS as Rapid Executive Board in this area. Not only the Meischberger would have to ask himself: Where was my performance?, but also Mr. Darabos and the Rapid Boards, because there was no return. That's certainly to be investigated, you shouldn't forget that either. But I would like to address another scandal, which I believe would also speak for a committee of inquiry, the call for such a one would have to come quite strongly, and this is about the refugee policy that this Federal Government has made. This too is a political scandal, a very powerful one, and there would certainly also be a committee of inquiry, for Man think: This refugee policy has cost us, the taxpayer alone, € 2 billion in 2015. What 2016 was, that is, I don't think, on the table yet, but that continues. This has begun with the swinging of the refugees, which have then largely returned from Germany, because the German authorities sent them back. Then proceeds with the ÖBB transports, with which the current Federal Chancellor has earned a basket fee for his or the company he led; probably he has also received some bonus payments for it. Then we also have the costs that will now be borne by the family estate; it starts only now. This is an issue which we may not have mentioned yet, ladies and gentlemen, these costs will fall on our minds. And in this context, I would like to put something in the right light: A certain Mr. Schabhüttl, who was head of the asylum centre in Traiskirchen, has written a book he has now presented for his retirement. In this book, the role of NGOs is being questioned a little, and I think this is very searching. Last week I learned from the Swiss Secretary of State for Asylum in Switzerland – it is not suspected that he would go too hard, because he used to be Caritas President in Switzerland – that mainly German NGOs, as well as other NGOs, will pick up refugees in the Libyan territory, in Libyan territorial waters in the border area and then transfer Frontex and thus bring them to Europe. So these NGOs are continuing towing for the tractors, and the taxpayer is taxed by it. That is why the role of these NGOs must of course be questioned. If I read the book by Mr Schabhüttl, I know about these conditions, and I have already made several points here in Parliament. We from the Stronach team were in Traiskirchen, we looked at the situation on the spot back in 2015, and we have shown these problems here and drew attention to this misuse of taxpayers' money. This is an issue where I think it is urgent to look into it, that would be the subject of a real scandal investigation committee, because there will be a fried tax money in heights where we are dizzy, ladies and gentlemen – whereas the scandals regarding AKH, Zwentendorf and the Eurofighters are a smearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12699	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[13:14:24]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1456, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Water Law 1959, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000, the Immissions Protection Act (Immissions Protection Act), the Climate Protection Act, the Environmental Promotion Act, the Federal Air Re Content Act, the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, the Chemicals Act 1996, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Plant Protection Act 2011, the Fertilizers Act 1994, the feed law 1999, the BFW Act, the Rebenverkehrsgesetz 1996, the Product Stock Exchange Act, the Federal Law on the Federal Offices for Agriculture and the Agricultural Bundesanstaltungen, the Climate and Energy Fund Act 2007 and the Spanish Hofreitschule Act and the Federal Law establishing a quality mark for wood and wood products from sustainable use, the Stock Exchange Law and the Federal Law on the Federal Office for Water Management (BMLFUW) (1568 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2030/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, colleagues on the streamlining and debureaucratisation of procedures under the 2000 Environmental Impact Assessment Act (1537 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 2034/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues, on clear framework conditions for procedures for infrastructure projects (1538b)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12762	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Walter Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12793	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For the time being, I would like to particularly welcome the FPÖ of the city of Graz. Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] At the same time, I would like to congratulate our FPÖ team of the city of Graz on its participation in government and also on its Vice-Citizen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] Now on the real issue. – Mr Federal Minister, I have to replicate some of your statements over the last three days. There has been a very interesting slalom course, from the “press hour” to today. In the press hour you have announced that there will be changes in diesel taxation. [[Abg. Kogler: Ah that, yes, exactly!]] Yes, that was the announcement on Sunday. [[Abg. Kogler: You can’t even say “levelless, ” because then he goes down even further with the level!]] After the announcement, the criticism did not wait long. It is difficult in some way in this Republic to experience legal certainty, and I believe that people are now tired of living by the announcements and to experience again and again that legal certainty, planning for the sake of the citizen is no longer guaranteed. I have to say, Federal Minister, it is difficult for you to come today with a press release that says: Rupprechter now puts petrol tax reduction in play. – What does that mean now? Is this gasoline too expensive? Is the diesel too cheap? We assume that, as Minister of the Environment, you guarantee legal certainty here, but not only legal certainty, but also that you are putting environmental policies at risk, which bring economics – tourism, the economy – to the fore, but also to the point of planning. Exciting is also one thing: The coalition partner did not wait long for his reaction. Mr Leichtfried, Minister for Transport, has given him an overall promise. – So much about the announcement policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that it is really high time, with all the polemics, with all mutual discrepancies, that people are served with legal certainty, but also with appropriate planning. Now to the agenda items. It was quite exciting, Mr Stefan mentioned it at the previous item on the agenda: We are in the Constitutional Committee and have to deal mainly with environmental issues. It was about seven laws, as has been said, mainly environmental issues, including the EIA law, but also other issues. The final effect will be avoided by the committee of experts in which we should discuss this issue. These materials are transferred to the Constitutional Committee, in which the relevant experts are simply not present. It is precisely because of the different subjects that there are the different committees, and I believe that it is not appropriate for parliamentarianism and also for the legislative process to be mixed here. I now come to my request that I have tabled there on the streamlining and debureaucratisation of the procedures under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000, which was then largely rejected by both government parties. And at the same meeting of the Constitutional Committee, the revision of the EIA law is on the agenda. ==References====External links== To implement an EU directive in this area on May 2017. In the short term, a measure has been put in place quickly, we have heard it today, “Plan A” has to be implemented quickly and urgently – and one and a half months later the same topic is again on the tapet. That is, it's only working piecework in the final effect. However, I think that the citizens here should already have legal certainty and must be assured that there is no arbitrariness in this area. For the duration of the proceedings – I would like to address them briefly –: The duration of the procedure is partly different for the EIA, but only the determination of whether a procedure is permitted or not takes 5.2 months, the authorisation procedure – from the submission of the application for approval to the approval decision – takes 31.8 months, and if it is large projects, EIA procedures in Austria last up to ten years. [[Abg. Brunner: That's not true!]] That's fact, that's the facts, that's also proven, Mrs Brunner. [[Abg. Brunner: No!]] You can then relativize this, but it cannot be that one spreads insecurity so much and partially turns off projects alone due to this long process duration. Finally, I would like to mention a Groteske, which – which is really a treat – is about the Immission Protection Act – air, the beautiful IG-L-Hunderter, which we all know, on the motorway: He's getting worse now. [[Abg. Höfinger: Not in Lower Austria!]] In other words, if you go up on the motorway and take administrative evasion due to excessive speed, you should in the future be the take-off of the licence and the withdrawal of the vehicle the measures provided for in such a case – which are then called environmental measures. As far as the environmental idea is concerned, if I have to leave my vehicle on the strip due to an administrative breach, I have to be taken off the markings, I can no longer continue and I am still taken off the driver's license, where the environmental policy idea is that I am completely lacking this context. In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, I call on you to launch an ecological roadmap that you have announced,... [[Federal Minister Rupprechter:... will you not exceed, will you? That is why this is not relevant to you!]] This point is relevant – if you bring it in, I have to mention it – because what does that mean in the reverse: For example, if I am on my way with an e-vehicle and go on a speed crossing and get an administrative penalty, I will be punished in the same way as if I am on my way with a fossil fuel vehicle. – So that’s a grotesque measure that can’t be compared to anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, I call on you to present an ecological roadmap so that we can make some progress in this area in the future in environmental policy. And: Away from the insecurities and deceptions, and from a planlessness that is sometimes happening to me in this area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12935	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e12956	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Rauch, a few points on your introduction: First: Of course we congratulate our mayor Sigi Nagl in Graz. Everything, all good for future work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Mr Kassinger and Stefan.]] Second: You've needed a long time at your introduction until you've really been on the subject of what it's all about today, and you've not only linked a few topics, but got them mixed up. And the third thing: As regards the treatment of the Constitutional Committee, you mentioned that in some areas few professionals were present. As far as I remember, we were quite completely occupied, with the environmental speakers of all political groups. If you call yourself a non-special in this matter, then we can't do anything for it. I think that the content discussion has taken place in the Constitutional Committee, because we know it, we feel it, we have already discussed it in connection with the Deregulation Act today, that bureaucracy in some areas looks like that some laws are exaggerating or no longer practical – this is also the basis. This is not just a feeling in many cases, but it is true that some laws are outdated, that they are no longer contemporary, that they are outdated, or that they have developed in such a way that they are just slowing down or even anti-procedural – and that should not be – or that simply because of the changed framework conditions these laws do not prove to be quite effective or useful anymore. I should like to thank the Federal Minister – and his entire house – who has made a real effort in recent months to search through and work through all these agendas in his department and, in the course of this administrative simplification law, in many Areas have created essential conditions for adapting the laws of today and meeting the current requirements. There are 18 federal laws that are amended; three federal laws are repealed because they can no longer be applied. A large part concerns the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the Water Law Act, the Old Loads Act. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this Here it was the clear goal to simplify administration, debureaucratize everything or deregulate it. Much has really been done – after the discussion process was a long, but also a more difficult one, because some have initially adopted it or some have been afraid that civil rights would be eroded or reduced. We can clearly reject this because it is clearly about administrative simplification in these areas. And the environmental standards are not being attacked, they remain that way. We also had a detailed discussion in the Environment Council with section head hunters, who explained many detailed questions. The Parties shall be maintained and procedures shall be easily and more efficient. In this sense: Thank you very much for the preparation! To clarify, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also ask you to agree to this amendment. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13052	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13113	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13134	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Under this item 21 novels of laws are dealt with. My previous speaker mentioned it: They were all dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, although in fact all environmental fields are concerned. And: It is simply not possible to negotiate so many legislative instruments in a few minutes here in plenary, that is not a serious access. Such a delicate and important matter – it contains all the important environmental features in this item on the agenda – cannot be dealt with in this way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The worst teeth have already been drawn to this package as a result of strong resistance from the environmental NGOs and also from the green councillors. What is available now is a little bit like what you would have said, we need some administrative simplification from every area – I emphasize: any one – without you being able to give us any technical reasons in the committee, or to explain what is really necessary from a professional point of view. We also have proposals where simplification and red tape could have been achieved. However, I do not see any technical justification in the present amendments. Unfortunately, due to the shortage of time, I can only address a few examples. For example, approval facilitations are introduced in the Water Law Act. The Climate Protection Act sets up advisory committees. I would have liked to welcome the merger of advisory committees, only after the review the quo was changed – from a two-thirds majority we then came to a three-quarters majority. You can't explain why you're doing this. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: I already explained it!]] – You have given an answer, but – apologise –: By increasing the quorum, a body that is probably ridiculous to claim. We all know what this quota is all about. It is linked to the appointment of this Advisory Council, and with this quota it is ensured that this Advisory Council cannot take an ambitious decision on climate change. That is why we strongly reject this. The opinion of the Federal Environment Agency on projects in the environmental impact assessment process was also deleted. This is not an administrative simplification, but it will make it more difficult for many environmental organisations and citizens' initiatives to take a look at these opinions – made by a recognised authority in Austria – and thus perhaps many criticisms or scepticisms can be removed from a project. Delete this service now. Many project promoters will then regret this in the individual procedures. They also delete the report to this House on environmental promotion in the country. From your point of view, I can understand this because: If I were to cut down the funding for environmental promotion in the country from year to year, and I could already see that this will allow fewer projects to be implemented, for example in the field of thermal rehabilitation, then I would be uncomfortable if I had to discuss this report here in the house. But it is very interesting for us as parliamentarians to know exactly: What are the consequences of your budget cuts? Which projects can actually achieve what CO2 emissions and what value added and job effects? This is an important information that this report gives us every year. That's what you take away, and we strongly reject it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You could not explain why you did not take action that makes sense, such as the removal of the Ministry of Transport's veto right in air quality measures, air protection measures. You have kept this provision, you have not abolished it – no idea why. This procedure does not seem to be technical, but it is arbitrary. And quite honestly: We have hardly received initiatives from your home during this entire legislative period, and if, then, they contained only very small changes, but no real change – and now you are throwing us such a massive package of legislation, in which all that has been overdue for a long time, such as the implementation of the Aarhus Convention, the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, the implementation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, is not included. In particular, there is also a need for adaptation in the EIA, and I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So everything that is to be examined under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act really falls in there. Of you, Minister, I do not take any initiative unless you take the ticket charge with you, except that you say – that's the worst thing at all! – it should not be a tax approximation of diesel to petrol, but, on the contrary, the taxation of petrol should still be reduced. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: This is an approximation!]] – Yes, it is an approximation, but you already understand that an environmental minister who is celebrating in Paris with the High Ambition Coalition, who is celebrating with the Paris climate agreement and who then proposes to achieve the approximation in this way – and you are always talking about eco-social and bla, bla, bla, I say, because it is only more Blablabla, I can no longer take it seriously... [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Say that this was a call from the Green Environment Councillor!]] [[Call the Greens: Right!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not the way environmental policy is going! [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Your Green Environment Councils want this!]] And so it is not possible to exercise the function of an Environment Minister! In conclusion, I would like to point out very urgently: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change as well as a dedicated Minister for the Environment or a dedicated Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13273	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13338	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13359	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I can also refer to the “press hour” of last Sunday at the beginning of my speech. Mr Federal Minister, you have again announced that we will have proposals on the climate and energy strategy in the House by the middle of the year. I would like to ask you to comply with this timetable, especially because of the more than worrying developments that we are currently experiencing in the United States, where measures that should still be implemented under the Obama administration are now totally contrary to President Trump. [[Abg. Brunner: Even ExxonMobil...!]] Even ExxonMobil, as Mr Brunner has already said, and the People's Republic of China is also committed to the implementation of the Paris climate targets. But now I come to the Administrative Reform Act. Mr Rauch, we would be very pleased if very many of the measures of Plan A would be implemented very quickly, but in order to give the truth the credit: The Deregulation Commission, which launched this package, has already been set up in 2015. There is a report from February 2016 and there was a long negotiation process, with some of the package – especially from the NGOs’ point of view – “gift teeth”, as Mr Brunner has already mentioned. As far as the recovery of this package of laws is concerned, there was therefore a quite long negotiation process before it was ready for decision and the package could be presented here. It contributes to debureaucratisation, administrative simplification, deregulation, and it is a basically welcome presentation that we are debating here today. It has already been mentioned: In 2017, we will renovate the EIA law, namely in the implementation of the relevant EU directive. We expect this proposal to be implemented accordingly. The main points in this package concern the environment: Changes in the Water Law, the EIA Act, the Immission Protection Act – Air – that's not so easy to pronounce, no, we won't do it, we're going to do it usefully – in the Climate Protection Act, in the Environmental Promotion Act and above all in the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. [[the speaker promises several times with this title of law]] [[Abg. Prince: Let's do it!]] On the reform of the agricultural sector, Mr Preiner will certainly be carrying out a lot more. Two more sentences on the opposition applications, which we rejected in committee: We will also reject them in plenary today. The reason for this is quite simple: We assume that this revision will lead to a further streamlining in the EIA process and that these applications will be in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13415	The next speaker is Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13436	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have listened very carefully to what Mr Feichtinger and Mrs Brunner have said before, and we sometimes have to forward a praiseful word: I have often criticized the Minister for the Environment - I think he probably is right - but in this particular case it is a solid package that we will also support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This applause is quite suspicious. Nevertheless, I would also like to address two or three points in detail. The first issue, which is important to me – and Mrs Brunner has also mentioned this – is: Many small steps are now being taken in an administrative simplification, and I think that almost everyone – one could now argue about individual details – is correct and meaningful, but the major issues in environmental policy are not dealt with enough. I agree that this is an announcement policy that takes place from “press hours” to “press hours” and from interview to interview. If you look at the statements made in 2015 or 2014, you can see: Many of the things that have been announced have never happened. They're somewhere on the track, and nobody knows why. Of course, environmental policy is also cross-sectional matter – this is noted in the context of the fact that electromobility is always very much announced by you – but there is reason to warn, because in issues such as the implementation of the Aarhus Convention, which would also strengthen the rights of the agrarians in an environmental impact assessment procedure for the play, you are conspicuous. They are somewhat in those areas of environmental policy, which are more civil participation, and you are also in a good position to take Parliament seriously in its role, because you have never received a serious response from you on requests that are seriously formulated and that contain a reasonable statement of reasons. In addition to administrative simplification, I would also like to see a minister in the future. We will not support Mr Brunner's request. I can also justify this: From my point of view, he strongly targets the glass house topic, which was discussed in Burgenland, where there was a 16-hectare glass house. This is what I believe the discussion is aimed at. Where we are dealing with industrial agriculture and where there have actually been problems – this was a case in the Burgenland – it was mainly political problems that we have seen. These are country committees that have already decided on issues before they were requested – from politicians in whose staff committee the project managers were sitting, and from flows of money that are thought to have helped a national party. But it was never about an EIA procedure that would have solved a problem there in any form. [[Abg. Brunner:... my application?- Oh, my God!]] That is why we will not support this request. – Mrs Brunner, you can continue screaming. The microphone's waiting for you if you have anything to say. [[Further call of the Abg. Brunner.]] Minister, we support Your administrative simplification. However, on the major issues, I expect more seriousness to the small groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13488	The next speaker is Mr Singer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all agree that modern and efficient management is a prerequisite for a future-oriented direction of our state. This innovation will contribute to administrative simplification, debureaucratisation and deregulation. In the light of very extensive procedures, it is also a goal to make the administration more slimmer, more efficient and faster in the sense of citizens. In total, this has already been mentioned several times, 18 laws have been affected, with three being completely repealed. Why? - Because they have become dead right in the meantime. I would like to take out the Water Law Act on matter. There are numerous new schemes in this area to ensure, among other things, a more efficient exchange of data between authorities and those entitled to water. In principle, those entitled to the water are obliged to transmit their findings via an interface. In addition, extensions of certain deadlines are possible, e.g. in the case of water restorations. The provisions on the water survey are integrated into the general provisions of the water monitoring system. Similarly, a number of approval obligations are missing, such as those for the wood tributary that has become meaningless today. Ladies and gentlemen, with this novel, I believe that deregulation, administrative simplification can be felt. It is important to me that all areas of justice are examined. This Administrative Reform Act sets out essential steps in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13544	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13566	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues and spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a panel on which a heavy transporter loaded with tree trunks can be seen on a road, on the speaker's desk.]] Mr Minister, this amendment certainly contains, as already mentioned, sensible simplifications. The law still speaks of the wooden trifle; I think we know it from home films. However, very important points have already been raised. I think it is very useful for the Climate Change Act to establish the Climate Change Committee established in 2011 with the Climate Change Advisory Council, and I think that we need to cooperate much more with this institution in the future. – In this connection, I legitimately refer to palm oil. We know what's going on there. If there is such a climate protection advisory board, we must make this happen actively. But what reminds me of the Sunday “press hour ” is the demand for a diesel price increase. Mrs Brunner, I am not at all of your opinion that petrol is being played against diesel. On the other hand, we must finally start talking about setting these senseless, speculative journeys across the continent. That's the idea! It doesn't make any sense to play gasoline against diesel and to do nothing against the cause. This very current picture – because we drove to Upper Austria yesterday – is a Czech wood lattice. [[The speaker points to the table placed in front of him]] – We have 47 percent forest area in Austria, and round wood is transported from the Czech Republic to Austria. With the Bundesbahn, Buche comes from Ukraine. [[The speaker turns the panel around, on the back of which packed stacks of wood can be seen.]] You know – I've already used this picture –: Firewood and pellets come from all Eastern countries. This happens in a country like Austria, which has 47 percent of its own forest area. What is the whole thing that we're talking about who we're taking more, who we're taking away money from or who we're taking extra taxes from? We must fight the problem at the root and remove these senseless, speculative transports from the traffic. That's the subject. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have already spoken against the IG-Luft-Hunderter, because I know this situation very well because we are on the road all the time. Since you often have a speed limitation on an empty road on a four-track expanded highway, which no person understands, or a traffic jam in the morning, I would like to ask the experts: What is the result of more pollution, more noise, a congestion or a rapid transport of 130 km/h? If anyone tells me that at 130 km/h you spend less vehicles than at 100 km/h, he has to explain that to me. That is why, I believe, we need much more practical approaches, Mr Minister, but they are completely missing here. I think that's the essential you were asked to do. I don't know what's going on with those climate summits in Paris, New York, Marrakech. Sometimes we have the feeling that these are very pleasant meetings without results, because as we heard in the “ZiB 3” tonight, it remains without consequences for someone to get out of these contracts. There is a handshake in the country worth more than a signature under these contracts. That's why: Act consistently, fight root problems and limit senseless transports!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13644	Mr Plessl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13665	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Before I say something about the administrative reform law, the government template 1456, i.e., I would like to report on the culture of discussion we practice in the committees. This is very important, since some of the colleagues here said that they had no information and that the material would have been dealt with in the wrong committee. However, this government template was discussed in the Presidency. A consensus was reached there so that we could deal with this government proposal in the Constitutional Committee. In addition, the agenda was adopted unanimously in the Constitutional Committee. I would like to expressly support this. Then we negotiated in committee, and the representative of the Stronach team, Mr Hagen, got up and said: The wrong committee, I'm leaving, and I have missed the discussion. It would have been better if Mr Hagen had spoken with his clubman, because he agreed to the procedure so that this matter could be discussed in the Constitutional Committee. – That’s really a very funny thing! I was surprised by Mr Steinbichler, who is now speaking on this subject, although he was not in committee at all. I do not quite understand why the Party Team Stronach refused its democratic right to debate in committee. But now he wants to report on possible measures here. It is up to the Committee to prepare and discuss these measures with the Minister for the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen, but now to the law: This is a reform of 18 laws that are being amended, and three are repealed. It is important that this administrative reform is implemented. In March 2015, the Federal Minister established an Administrative Reform Commission to see where simplifications are possible. We therefore welcome the agreements and measures that are being put in place today. An excursion to the Water Law Act: This is an extension of the deadlines: The duration of the authorisation, the period for rehabilitation and project template. This is a positive step. With regard to the amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, an important agreement has been reached: Simplification and acceleration of EIA authorisation procedures. This is very important for project promoters, but also for those who have a party position. A comprehensive public information on projects subject to EIA in Germany and abroad is also provided for. It is another important point that we would like to agree with. Mr. Federal Minister, I only have one request: In the next few months, we will design and implement the EIA Directive accordingly. I have already experienced some EIA negotiations myself, and it is common for these procedures to be managed and carried out very differently by the leaders of the proceedings. Perhaps with a guide we can have a positive influence on how such a procedure should proceed. The aim is to implement and complete uniform, fair, fair and legal procedures throughout Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13714	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13735	Mr President. High house! I thank you – including my previous speaker – for the contributions to the debate. I think it was a very important clarification that was made here. The allocation, that is to say, in which committee this matter is dealt with, is the responsibility of the House and is not in my mind. However, I must say: We have held a very good and high level debate in the Constitutional Committee, which has dealt with all aspects of this government proposal. I cannot agree with Mrs Brunner's comment that we had gone beyond the specialist committees. As I said, the assignment is the responsibility of the House, and I am available to any committee in which this matter is dealt with. Mrs Brunner, I agree with you that it is indeed a difficult package. It is a strong signal of administrative simplification that we place here in a collection oven with 21 novels. 18 federal laws are substantially amended, three are repealed, and, as has been said, we have held a very detailed and very high level debate in the Constitutional Committee. I should like to make a clarification on Mr Walter Rauch's comments. With regard to the environmental impact assessment, which is a concentration process, and I would like to correct the duration of the procedure – and we have explained this correctly and clearly in the 2009-2015 review; if you look at all the procedures in this regard, you can see that –: The average duration of proceedings, the duration of an authorisation procedure, from the application to the decision, is in fact 16 months and from the requirement to the decision nine months. It cannot therefore be a ten-year speech; I should like to know that correctly. I think that this amendment is a simplification and an acceleration in particular. That is to say, citizens get to a decision faster and faster. This applies in particular to the concentration procedure, the EIA. We have implemented a number of procedural simplifications and at the same time ensure that no material environmental standards have been touched or lowered anywhere, as was temporarily accused by the opposition. This has not been hardened in the debate in the Constitutional Committee. They couldn't prove to me any reduction in environmental standards. I would like to say once again that the Green opposition is operating with pure polemics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brunner: You couldn't answer me at the time! You didn't give me an answer!]] Mrs Brunner, if the Federal Minister, if my office in the EIA procedure fails to grant advance voting rights to speed up the procedure, then it is about that we are not the competent authority – these are very often environmental councils from your political camp – and we do not want to get ahead of them. That's the background. If there is less to write down, it may be a problem, but not my problem. [[Abg. Brunner: And that's not polemic now?- Oh, my God!]] It is about speeding up the procedure, and that has been implemented. That's good and right. We have looked at many areas, including the participation and design rights of the communities. That's where you accused us of disturbing her. That's not right, on the contrary, we left them untouched. We have streamlined deadlines in order to speed up procedures so that we can speak more quickly. In this sense, I would like to list a number of authorization statistics to you, where we simply ensure easier access to law with these amendments. We have very often also reduced the different codecision procedures of other authorities in order to eliminate double-tracks. In the field of A large number of clarifications ensure easier execution, for example in the contribution obligation, of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. We have reduced overarching agreement arrangements and double-tracks. Finally, I would like to say that, in the sense of the administrative reform, we are setting a good example according to our regional initiative “home. Land. The importance of living” – the strengthening of rural regions, for example, with the relocation of the Federal Office for Water Management from Vienna to another federal country, in this case to the Federal State of Upper Austria, to Scharfling am Mondsee. This is a good and right initiative to strengthen our viable regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13794	Next, Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13815	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Minister, I agree with you if you say: Let us strengthen rural areas! Today and tomorrow, we are still dealing with issues where it is important to strengthen this rural area so that we do not land a total abdominal area. On agenda item 5: Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Walter Rauch on the streamlining and debureaucratisation of procedures – yes, we all want to do so! – according to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. That is a right and good approach. The environmental impact assessment has established itself as an effective instrument in the field of environmental protection in recent years. The EU sets out the legal framework for environmental impact assessment in Europe. In order to clarify whether an environmental impact assessment is to be carried out in a project, a so-called identification procedure must be carried out before that. But I have to say in this context that the average duration of the procedure is too long, Mr Minister, this is out of question – in large projects far too long, Mrs Brunner! Austria suffers enormously from international competition due to its long-term process. Due to these often very long procedures, very many jobs are lost, because projects – large construction projects – are only partially or at all not implemented. It is therefore important and right that these procedures be accelerated. I agree with Mr Rupprechter's words when he says: These measures are, of course, also important for strengthening rural areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13856	Next, Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13879	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! We are constantly calling for red tape and administrative simplification, and therefore, Minister, I thank you for implementing it. As we have already heard, there is an administrative simplification in the field of the Ministry of the Environment and Agriculture. My previous speakers have already mentioned it: 18 laws are affected. However, I would also like to say a few words about the two motions for resolutions on red tape and reduced procedural duration and planning for environmental impact assessments. To this end: The environmental impact assessment is an effective instrument that examines the facts and also involves those concerned well. Of course, it is important to keep making improvements to the law. As we have already heard today, this is possible with this law, as improvements are being introduced in the environmental impact assessment. The law contains deadlines for opinions and statements by environmental prosecutors and municipalities, and the Federal Environment Agency no longer gives an opinion on this. Therefore, there are substantial accelerations, which also makes sense. We will also continue to discuss this. In this sense, I see the law and this administrative simplification as positive. Of course, we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13912	Mrs von Wogau (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13934	Mr President. Minister! Dear High House! Mr Rupprechter, you have said that procedures need to be accelerated. That's an absolutely plausible process. The only question is whether the solution that has happened in this case, namely to whip fifty laws by the Constitutional Committee, is the right one. What is simply missing is the content discussion, because some very important parts would have been in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I would also like to ask a little question about the very short review time, which was then extended by a millimeter, but nevertheless it has been a lot of legislative matter, and it would have been nice to have the opportunity to get involved a little more. What's going on? – It remains a bitter side-taste, that is to say, you're trying to run through a law here. It was drawn due to the relatively high counterwind of one or other poison tooth, however, as a total package it did not succeed optimally. They are talking, for example, of administrative savings, which are sometimes quite recognizable, but the whole thing is simply missing. A continuous total line is not available. So transparency, proximity to the citizen, all of this is very much missing here. I can also get rid of a small side panel here: From the linguistic and legalists, it was not necessarily a master's achievement, which many lawyers also strongly criticized. What I ask myself in general is when we talk about the environment, which is also covered with: I don't understand why you're on an EIA law if, by the end of May, the implementation of the EU Directive, which amends the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, is still in place. That's something I can't understand why you packed it in quickly. Of course it may be that one then tries to take back into the new novels the deterioration that has now been taken out. But I'm convinced that many will look very closely. However, I would also like to make a positive statement. We very much welcome a number of points: This is the elimination of double and triple powers, then of course also the consideration of the existing jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice to give an example, and the inclusion of heavy metals, for example, in programmes to reduce fine dust pollution. All in all, however, I have to say that this project will not receive our approval. A word on Mr Brunner's motion for a resolution. We have now discussed briefly, we are a little disunited, I also admit honestly, but we will support this request, with us in principle very much against additional bureaucracy. But we take it positively and say that might be a good approach to giving an impulse to switch from chemical Cologne to very well-functioning alternative products. That's why we're going to carry it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e13985	I call Mr Bacher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14006	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to talk about environmental impact assessment. The EIA is an important instrument for the sustainable protection of our environment. Of course, there are also some criticisms, including the reduction in the duration of the procedure required in the applications, and as little bureaucracy as possible. In the course of the administrative reform, work is already under way to achieve a rapid and efficient and thus shorter procedure. Shorter deadlines and faster, more efficient procedures are part of the planned administrative reform. For example, if power lines are placed in existing routes, these projects are not new projects subject to EIA requirements under certain conditions, but are subject to a faster individual case-by-case check, where the effects of the changes are also examined. The fact that the EIA has its authority is probably what we agree here. And in that proper testing takes their time, probably. There and there it can be safely shortened, but the quality of the test must not be reduced in any case. In all discussions, it must not be forgotten what the EIA is about, namely not to overpower our environment, but to protect our environment in a sustainable way. On the other hand, EIA-tested large-scale construction projects or projects such as cable car expansions in my region or power plant constructions bring high value to the region and are an essential economic factor. The government is consistently working on making Austria future-oriented in all areas, including the EIA. There is no need for an additional request to draw our attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14037	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14060	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the ranks and at home in front of the TV screens! We are debating today a revision of the Administrative Reform Act in the fields of agriculture, the environment and water management. A total of 21 materials are for discussion. I think that this will also have a lasting positive effect in practice. Reforms are to be made if they are necessary and effective. That, I think, is the case at today's item on the agenda. The aim is to simplify administration, but also to reduce red tape. More transparency is also needed. The basis for this is laid today. Laws that are antiquated in the field of agriculture and the environment and are therefore obsolete are repealed or simplified. Since the Administrative Reform Act is a cross-sectional matter, we have dealt with it in the Constitutional Committee. I think that was the right committee to do so. I would now like to address some positive changes: firstly, in the Water Law, but also in the Regenverkehrsgesetz – this Regenverkehrsgesetz is repealed at all. I also consider it necessary to unite the Higher Federal Institute for Horticulture Schönbrunn with the Federal Gardens. There one can benefit from synergies and, according to the Ministry, achieve about half a million euros in savings. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the case of various approval procedures under the Water Law Act, but also in the case of construction regulations, environmental lawyers or experts in the field of nature and landscape protection already have a party position, including in the case of larger construction projects, also in the case of industrial vegetable production, even in the case of various changes of dedication. I therefore do not think that it is necessary, according to Greens, to introduce and decide on an additional EIA duty in this area. The legal provisions we now have are, in any case, sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14100	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14122	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some may wonder when I come to Lipizzan in the course of the debate on administrative reform on horses, on very special horses. But this is necessary, because in the comprehensive law convoluted, changes to the Spanish court riding school law are also hidden, although only minor changes, but those which made some clarifications necessary in order not to cause any concern for Lipizzan breeding in the Styria, in the West-Stuth of the Federal Piber. In concrete terms, it is about renaming the federal support Piber to Lipizzanerstüt Piber. This is also useful because it corresponds to the local name and is also easier to use in terms of communication and marketing technology. Secondly, this amendment to the law of the Lower Austrian Heldenberg site, which has been expanded as a training centre, is included in the catalogue of tasks of the Hofreitschule. There was a need for clarification by making it quite clear in a committee statement that the Federal Stüt Piber, now Lipizznerstüt Piber, is not called into question as an exclusive farm for the Spanish court riding school, even as a tourist guide company. And in this sense I was able to agree to this change in the form. Finally, I can only give you my heart: Visit the Lipizzaner Stüt in the West Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Administrative Reform Act BMLFUW in 1568 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Höfinger, Dr Feichtinger, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Höfinger, Mr Feichtinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 2 introduced. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on EIA obligations for industrial vegetable production. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1537 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1538. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:12:54]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 2041/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues on Human Biomonitoring (1539b)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14277	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14305	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are now negotiating the request made by Mrs Weigerstorfer, in which the Government is asked to forward to the National Council every two years a report on the progress, findings and activities of the Advisory Board on Human Biomonitoring. I'll send you in advance: We will accept this request because it is a good request, which is certainly very, very good and also worthy of support. For us, of course, it is essential that possible consequences and effects of various active substances are explored as quickly as possible, and as essential as it is to ensure that current environmental and health issues can be addressed. A variety of chemicals found in the body accompany us in daily life. Some of them are harmful to health, have negative effects on the immune system, nerves or the hormone system, fertility or unborn. With this human biomonitoring, burdened groups, individual loads and regional differences can be identified. A regular report that we support here would, of course, be a major step forward in this area. Especially in today's time, where a variety of products and goods have disturbing ingredients, a regular report makes sense to get answers to relevant questions of time. In addition, we can also use this report for research purposes in the future. And that would be a positive step.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14344	Before the next speaker comes to the floor, I may refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, on item 2 on the agenda, there is a correction to be made: Members cast: 166 instead of 165, as previously announced; of which “Yes” votes: 40, No votes: 126 instead of 125. The difference is on the vote result without influence. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14392	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to I should also like to thank Mrs Weigerstorfer for the initiative. It is undoubtedly like this: Yes, the human organism can be burdened by residues and chemicals. It is therefore important that we control our environment – air and water. However, it is also important that we control our feed, which is given to our farm animals, and our food. And in reality, it is a logical consequence that we also consider whether residues in the human body can be found and what effects they have. This scientific approach has been incorporated into a programme by the European Union: Human Biomonitoring for EU. This was launched in 2017, including funding from a European Innovation Fund: Horizon 2020. In Austria, this activity has already been launched in 2007. Under the leadership of the Federal Environment Agency, scientific institutions, ministries and social insurance companies work together on this subject. The results: On the one hand, one can say that one can derive a certain warning system, i.e. if these analyses indicate misdevelopments, political response must be made immediately. However, in the course of these analyses, we will also see that we are moving internationally in Austria and Central Europe at a very good level of environmental and health. And I would already like to ask that we then also communicate and appreciate the positive results that exist. The small amendment made to the request made by the colleague, Mr Refuserstorfer, is that this report should be put to the plenary every two years. The problems will then be discussed and solved. And as already mentioned: If there are good news and successes, they may also be found here in the plenary session. Yes, the project is a step in the right direction. Congratulations, Federal Minister! Congratulations too, Mrs Colleague! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14435	Mrs Mag. Brunner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14456	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Due to the lack of time in the short term, we also have a clear consent from us for this request, also thanks for the initiative. It is, I think, already important to us as environmentalists: How high is the individual pollutant load? In this way, the report will certainly be an important basis for our decisions in environmental policy. But what is still important to me, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to tell you – this is the only item on the agenda that came out of the committee – is: There are very many other initiatives still in the Environment Committee, 50 initiatives. In this case, the Federal Government is not prepared to forward it to the plenary session. However, this is partly a matter of very important change, for example in climate protection or in the energy transition. All that is discussed here in the environmental field are procedural simplifications. That's all you're interested in in the environment?- Oh, my God! But the important changes you fail to make. Again: That's not how it is! Mr Minister, you have still not explained yourself to your fatal statements as regards the approximation of the tax on petrol to the level of diesel. - We're waiting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: Austria needs an independent, strong, committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14501	Mrs Mag. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14523	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go to the item on the agenda, I should like to welcome the students of the New New School of the Middle School of Amstetten. Welcome to our high house! [[General condolences.]] The report on “Human Biomonitoring” will be published for the first time this fourth quarter. It was a pleasure that the Committee had given its full support, and this also shows how seriously we are taking this issue here. What does this report say? – He explains what pollutants we absorb in what quantity and what, for example by industrial influences, by consumption, by food, but we also think of cosmetics that sometimes contain very high proportions of plasticizers. So it's about measuring pollutants in the human body. How does that happen? The Federal Environment Agency operates in this area in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Health, and the Med-Unis in Vienna and Innsbruck are also involved. 500 samples are evaluated in Austria alone. For ten years, this monitoring platform has existed, with the Federal Environment Agency acting as coordinator and bringing together data and activities from a hundred organisations from 26 countries in total. This Office conducts studies, also shows the effects of pollutants in the human body, participates in European networks and expert groups and evaluates, among other things, the implementation of national and international agreements. What happens to the results and findings of these activities? – These findings are often the basis for laws. Think of the ban on bisphenol A in baby snouts: This ban results from it. Special plasticizers must also no longer be used in the manufacture of children's toys. Since the measurement activities, the load on the human body has also been shown to have decreased. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already stressed that the Committee is very pleased to support this request. The aim is to present a monitoring report every two years and thus to have a truly sound report in hand in order to derive from it necessary regulatory measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14563	Mrs von Wogau (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14585	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you for even being able to support a request in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We all know that the sum of the poison cocktail, which we're delivered to every day, is getting bigger and bigger. I see this report as a very, very important tool so that policy can also be countered in time. I would also like to start the initiative here, that this report is then really used as a basis for making decisions here. Why is it still an important tool? Unfortunately, you depend on different studies again and again, and we all know that studies are very often bought science, and there is the famous sentence: Don't trust any study you didn't fake yourself! [[Call the SPÖ: Statistics!]] I would have liked to have received this report every six months, would also like to have agreed on a year, but of course I am also satisfied with two years, because it is a step in the right direction, especially those studies, which have often been very opaque and have been paid, to take a little out of the argument. This is now also the step in the next direction. One of us has just succeeded, I would now like to go in the next direction. We have heard from the BPA, a very important issue, I believe, is also glyphosate. There are also studies where, if you're researching a little bit, you realize that the studies you've bought are, that some scientists are also paid by Monsanto, former employees, et cetera. I wonder why it is possible that Monsanto in California has been very much committed to the fact that on this weed destroyer, which also exists in us, this roundup, insists that carcinogenic substances are included. I would be very pleased if we could continue to act in this direction and see this report as a whole, very important basis for this. Thank you once again to all the Members and political groups who voted in this House. It is a good example that you can do something together from time to time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14618	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14640	Mr President. High house! First of all, I can really go into it very soon. I would like to express my sincere congratulations to Mrs Weigerstorfer on this initiative, which all the political groups have very much wished to join. Of course, as the resolution says, my section will, in agreement with the health centre, present this report every two years, because it is an important issue. But I would like to come back to Mrs Brunner once again. I do not know why you are so aggressive today – at least the Green Group does not seem to be interested in biomonitoring. I'm just counting five Members. So that doesn't seem so important to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: It doesn't look better at the ÖVP either!]] That's what I think is natural or élimination naturale en français. You have to explain, that's not my problem. As has been said, it is an important issue and, of course, we will present ourselves with this intense debate and bring our know-how and our report here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14698	Mrs Fichtinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14719	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear guests at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what has already been reported is an important initiative. “Human Biomonitoring” is an important thing for all of us so that pollutants can be detected when they get into the body. It is good that it is also possible to use blood, urine, hair and tissues to detect them. It has also been said that more than a hundred organisations in 26 different countries are to be involved and uniform data bases are to be established by 2022. In Austria it is the Umweltbundesamt, but besides the Agency for Health and Food Safety there is also support from the Medical Universities Vienna and Innsbruck and also from a private university, and it is good that everyone pulls on one strand. Perhaps another sentence, Mrs. Weigerstorfer: It is, of course, good and noble, and it is good that it is discussed again and again about so important things, but I also believe that it is not necessarily necessary to get a report every half year. Finally, people should work there and not have to work constantly on a report that they should return. Of course, it is necessary for the National Council to receive a report, we do not need to discuss it at all, but everything is applied with measure and purpose and with reason. At this point too, a thank you to our Federal Minister for the work and for the fact that this topic is being pushed forward again and again. Thanks also to all the organisations involved for qualitative and high-quality work. I think it is in the sense of all of us and also of our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14752	I call Mr Buchmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14774	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As we have already heard, Human Biomonitoring is currently being established across Europe as a tool for environmental and health monitoring. First-class is also the fact that experts from Austria have been dealing with this topic in terms of content since 2007. But what exactly is being done here? – We have heard what is being analysed, namely biological materials such as blood, urine, breast milk, saliva, hair and tissue samples on enrichments of pollutants and their degradation products in the body. The selection refers to representative sections of the population. These analyses, toxicological and epidemiological studies, introduce required limits. The HBM-I value is almost used as a test and control value, and the HBM-II value corresponds to a kind of upper limit, where it is possible to achieve more accurate action needs and thus also an environmental medical care. To illustrate how the subject of health, the environment and nutrition is assessed differently and also discussed: Yesterday I received a book entitled “Time bomb environmental poisons” that was really interesting. This is about pesticides as bee killers, hormones in drinking water, pollutants in food, carcinogenic waste gases, electrosmog and some similar things. It is very practical, however, that the book also offers the all-encompassing remedy for detoxification of the body, with natural minerals of volcanic origin. – Then you could be quite skeptical. I thought of a similar example. At the time of the fall of the wall in the former GDR, the allergy rate in the population was about 1.5 percent. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Now it is higher!]] Ten years later, it has been similar with us in the West, more than 20 percent, and it is associated with hygiene and cleaning in the households. Therefore, the adaptation has worked very fast and “good” – under quotation marks. Finally, an EU-wide scientific method such as “Human Biomonitoring” is certainly better suited to work out problems and, in some cases, also medium and long-term health effects and then to make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14810	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14832	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, thank you very much to Mrs. Von Weigerstorfer. It has submitted this request. We had already had him in the committee several times, had to postpone him, but finally he went through with the approval of all the political groups – also a thank you to all the political groups. That also shows us that this is the right way. Of course, we have not been able to comply with the wish of colleague Refuserstorfer to discuss a monitoring report here every six months. That would be a bureaucracy which we ourselves could not vote here in this House. However, the importance is given, and I think it is also very important in these two years to point out what is stored in Austria on pollutants, and we have gone in this direction as well. I would also like to give an example from Carinthia: The HCB scandal in the Görtschitz valley also shows us how important it is that we deal with these environmental substances in such a way that we can face our employees, our citizens openly, and tell them the truth about what it is all about, in particular about removing this problem. I believe that this is also aimed in this direction. The horizon of two years is thus a rounded matter, and I am pleased that we can take this decision unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14865	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1539 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 2041/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on Human Biomonitoring annexed to the Committee's report 1539. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 193.) [[14:34:33]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, the Environment and the Water Management on the annual European Commission's 2017 forecast and the Council's operational work programme (III-351/1554 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14922	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Jannach. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e14950	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! We are now discussing – as is already done in the Committee – the EU Annual Perspective of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for 2017. We were not particularly happy with this report in the Committee because it was held very, very generally. So there are no specific measures that would really have the impact on agriculture in 2017 that we might have wanted. By the way, I have made the effort to draw up the report from the previous year, from 2016, and compared it to the EU annual forecast for this year, i.e. the identical report, and it is indeed true that the report is, in large part, even verbatim. It is not, as you said in the Committee, a great prosaic achievement of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is rather – I have already said that – of very, very modest quality, because it is only seven pages. The largest area in the European Union, which is jointly managed, the agricultural policy, covers only seven pages. The preview of the Ministry of Finance covers more than 50 pages, the Ministry of Economic Affairs also has more than 50 pages with quite specific measures. In the field of agriculture, we have seven pages, Mr Minister, which are largely written off from the previous year. I can also quote this. The 2016 report describes, under the heading "Simplifying the common agricultural policy and its orientation", how to proceed: ‘Simplification of the common agricultural policy (CAP) with the aim of reducing red tape and reducing costs for farmers and economic operators’ is a key concern of the European Union. In the 2017 report, wordidently the same is said inside, precisely word-identifiable, but also without concrete measures. We have a second example here: “International Trade and Free Trade Agreements” – de facto wortident. Then we have written down the “Regulation on organic production and the labelling of ecological/biological products”, i.e. the Bio Regulation – wordident from 2016, without a specific measure. That means not quite: A single point has been reversed in the sentence, but otherwise nothing has happened here, and that is, in fact, far too little in our opinion, because we really wish for concrete measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We in the Committee have also insisted that you will take concrete action. How does the red tape look like? – It cannot be read from this report. What about the simplifications that farmers have to expect? What is it like with the extended margin here that Member States have a larger, extended margin in the agricultural policy? – No concrete statement. What about market stabilisation measures? What about organic farming in the future? They have not reported anything on this in the Committee, and these seven pages are actually nothing to be seen. Now I understand: The European Commission may not be able to report and expect things here. But what we expect – and that was actually a unanimous committee opinion – is that you at least mention the Austrian position, the position of the ministry and say: That's what we want. But even here you have remained guilty of any response, Mr Minister, and for this reason we can never give this EU annual review approval, because it contains only general places and never becomes concrete in any way, and that is what we demand. We imagine you could say how a national margin could be created in Austria. We could be redistributing the promotions, away from these unfair land promotions. We could also make a proposal there. We could do what we can for the bio-sector, whether we want to continue to force it, how we distribute funding in this area. We could discuss how to regulate animal health, how we want to regulate plant protection. – No concrete action from the Ministry, Mr Minister, and that is just too little! I wish you would, like the Ministry of Finance, like the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to put concrete measures into the committee and not – and this is actually embarrassing for your ministry – to put a depreciation from the previous year, without any concrete action. So we want to discuss this again, we want to go back and, above all, we want concrete measures from you, Mr Minister, which are also understandable to farmers and which point to where the journey in the agricultural policy is going in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15010	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15031	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are discussing this report today, then, of course, the market situation is a central point, because the main part of the income for farmers comes from the proceeds of the products, and precisely the last year or two years have been a very difficult situation for farmers. In the milk sector, there was a catastrophic situation in 2015, also in mid-2016. It's a trend change, but we're not where we have to go at Weitem. That is absolutely not satisfactory. However, it has had a positive effect on a measure which has been adopted and enabled by the European Union and which has also been operated and implemented by Austria, namely the voluntary remission of supplies. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your support and support with financial resources. However, we also need such market measures for the future, to support product innovation, to set up and support market initiatives. And here you, Minister, are a door opener in the world for our businesses. If Mr Jannach says he wants to be able to read what we want, I can only say: No, the minister does that, not only does he want to do something, but he also does it, for example, that he is a door opener for our businesses in the world. This is also necessary because the market power of the trade chains with their own trademarks and their incessant desire to impose on the producer single-setting features is quite difficult to crack. I have no objection either, in principle, if more is paid for these additional benefits for the product from the trade chains. However, this is not always the case, on the contrary, one tries to find K.-o. criteria to then list any farms. I say quite clearly: No, that's not how it will be in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A significant part of the report also deals with the fact that we are in the middle of a programming period, but of course we are already thinking about how to proceed after 2020. It is important that we can also maintain the two-pillar model that we can offer a voluntary environmental programme for farmers, that we also have compensation payments for the farmers and the disadvantaged farmers. From my point of view, it is crucial that we also support and set priorities for steep land management and livestock farming, namely those who keep feeders. This is necessary for comprehensive management, and for a strong rural area it is precisely this comprehensive management that is needed. I'll be home to you, Minister, for your initiative. Land. Thank you very much. The Master Plan sets out essential initiatives to be supported and supported by Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15086	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Front: You've already shown how you're not sure. Polishs from the government bank against the opposition can absolutely not replace a lack of policy on matters, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. New builder.]] It is quite clear that Parliament cannot do that. I have to say that I am very grateful to Mr Jannach for having this, in itself, routine report, namely the annual Commission's 2017 report, here in plenary. Why? – This is a report that is totally unambitional, Mr Federal Minister, insufficient and not in accordance with the law. This is really a strong piece which you are affording here, written out from the last report, which Mr Jannach has already explained. Mr Minister, do not mention at any time She's exactly what the Austrian position is now. Why Refuse You do? Why Refuse Are you answering the Austrian Parliament, the Committee, the clear position of Austria on certain questions? These were questions like: What position did they represent on the Cork-2.0 declaration “For a Better Life in Rural Space”? What position have you taken on the position of the EU Commission on TTIP – also a central issue that is not only interested in farmers but also in society as a whole? Mr Federal Minister, it is truly incredible, however, that there is a parallel change to the rural development programme in Austria – and that is now scandalous – of 2. March of this year. We had 15th. The Committee meeting was held on 15 March. This change in the programme concerns the whole rural development programme in Austria, a comprehensive change in the programme, and there was no word from you. Not a word! Explain Here and today, why you did not talk about a programme change in the Committee, which brings substantial cuts in the agricultural environment programme: minus € 38 million for agricultural, environmental and climate protection measures. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: This has nothing to do with the Council's work programme!]] – “This has nothing to do with the Council’s work programme!” – See, the bad guy thinks, I say here. That's what the bad guy thinks! A rural development programme, mentioned here in the Commission's work programme, is not an issue for the Minister when it comes to Austria. No, that's not an issue for this minister, and that's very, very sad. It's not just sad, Minister, but it's a scandal. [[Congratulations on the Greens, as well as on Deputies Jannach and Neubauer.]] You can't afford that, and we can't let that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in this programme? – € 18 million more will be provided for the processing industry – € 18 million! – and at the same time, for example, the dairies for restructuring aid et cetera are to be used. And now it comes: At the same time, there are 37 farmers in Austria who still have no acceptance contract, although you know that at the end of March, in two days, these farmers are on the street with their milk. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Who is responsible for this?]] – "Who is responsible for this?" asks the Minister. He's not! It is not for the Austrian agricultural policy, it is not responsible for Austrian market policy! That's what it looks like in this country! A minister who does not exercise his competence is incompetent, simply incompetent. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is polemic!]] Minus €38 million for agricultural and climate protection measures, €18 million more for industry – and no responsibility there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] At the same time – yes, just scream, Mr Eßl! – there is a cartel-like situation: 90 percent of the total milk is collected by cooperative dairy farms in Austria, you know that, colleague Eßl. And I say one thing: I've talked to the owners personally, they're ready to do something. But that you as a minister in the working group of the Federal Farmers' Association on 21 January. But your chief of cabinets, Esterl, did not inform us in the house of the strategy pursued by the Ministry concerning these 37 farmers, is scandalous. I expect a clear answer from you today and here: ==References====External links== April have a customer, yes or no? And what had your cabinet chief lost at this Farmers' Federation event? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15227	I call Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15248	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers in front of the TVs at home! You see a very interesting, partly hot debate in the field of agriculture and rural areas in Austria. We have previously learned that there is a report on the work programme for agriculture, the environment and the water industry in the current year, prepared by the EU to implement it at national level. I thank the experts for their work. As a learned teacher, of course, I don't think much of it when content is identical and copied from one year to another. This shows us that there are still great, intense challenges in the field of agriculture. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to make a lasting commitment to agriculture, to rural areas, to strengthen them at present and in the future. I should also like to mention that the debate on the CAP, the common agricultural policy, has already begun at national and international level after 2020. It is necessary that targets are addressed not only, but also implemented, such as administrative simplification, debureaucratisation, but also greater transparency and strengthening of rural regions. And, of course, agriculture is also a key factor in rural areas. I should also like to mention that it is not useful and effective to control farms four or five times a year, since it requires a focus on one or two times a year. We also know that Austria is a bioland number one in Europe. It is necessary to continue to ensure this pioneering role. Even in the EU-level innovation of the new Bio-Regulation, it must be clear that there are no other bureaucratic obstacles. It is necessary to ensure that organic farming has a population in Austria and that other funding is available for rural areas. We also confess to direct payments. It is also necessary to ensure that there is a sustainable financial “security” of direct marketers and regional products. Direct marketers and regionality strengthen rural areas, especially less-favoured rural areas. I should like to mention that the social services sector is also the focus of this work programme. Social services in the country mean strengthening childcare, caring, expanding infrastructure, including more intensive broadband development. However, this also includes securing and expanding jobs in rural regions, which creates value added in less structural rural regions. I am at the last point in drawing up the rural master plan. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to act in this respect also within the meaning of the Council of Ministers and the Plan A by Chancellor Kern, so that results will be presented by autumn of this year. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers adopted a direction-setting decision, i.e. € 175 million of municipal investment for the municipalities, for the municipalities, for the rural people, so that value-added remains in the regions. The aim is that people do not move more strongly into the agglomerations, but also have work nearby. Short paths also mean reduction of CO2 emissions. I would like to thank, ladies and gentlemen, farmers for their work wherever they work and wherever they take place, in the fields, in the vineyards or in the woods. Finally, I would like to mention that the objective of agriculture can only be to produce healthy and sustainable food and food, but also to produce fair food. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15314	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15336	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! That's an interesting discussion. (The speaker put a table with the title ‘Bayern – Area: 70,549 km2, inhabitants: 12,46 million, districts: 7, country seats: 187; Upper Austria – area: 11.981 km2, inhabitants: 1.4 million, districts: 15 (18), country seats: 56’ to the speaker’s desk.) If you listen as a practitioner, you can only enjoy yourself when Mr Eßl speaks of a trend change. – Mr Commissioner, I advise you: Don't go to a peasant's tribe table and don't save there from a trend change, otherwise you might get a different reaction! We had in the milk minus 10 cents, now we have plus 2 cents, and you're talking about a trend turn. You have to lend me this optimism. I'm optimistic, but you're tenfold out of me. I can say one thing: We have this in all areas, we have prices like 40 years ago! Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever heard of inflation? What's the matter with you, you're the super economist, but you're always in the wrong direction. My colleague, Clubobmann Lugar, was right. He's got a boy in the 2. Class gymnasium and says it's terrifying how little basics are learned there today. You can see that the effects are now pretty slow in this house. No one in this House is talking about food sovereignty, although we are talking about the objectives related to EU policy. That's great, you have to let yourself be broken on the tongue: The European Union is the second largest palm oil importer, the destroyer of domestic agriculture. Yes, Mr President Schultes, it is a bit of a deal with you so that it doesn't go like the Upper Austrian Agricultural Councillor Hiegelsberger, who said that it was a very important fat without which we would be hungry. He is also the one who says we need biogas plants to exploit the surplus areas. – This is worse than the Ganslerhangslalom in Kitzbühel. You need to know what's actually going to be broken down in a professional way: We therefore endanger the future of our children, grandchildren and, most importantly, the supply of healthy, regional, seasonal food to the population. It's shocking! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When you talk about an EU preview, you know that there are agricultural diesels in 25 EU countries, and you said on Sunday at the "press hour" that you can also imagine this, but only in the next period, I say: That's too late; if you want to decide, you have to do it now! I'm not saying this because I'm a fortune teller, but because I'm sure. Mr. Minister, you say we want to get the officers to the country. We have the fivefold red tape to our Bavarian neighbours – and with it I now refer to the board. And instead of working for debureaucratisation, you say: We revive the rural area, for ten farmers who stop, we bring an official to the country, then we have at least one who deserves well. I do not want this rescue of the rural area! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That's where I have to answer you in all clarity: We want one. Rural area that prosperates, we want a rural area with small businesses, with butchers, with bakers, with innkeepers, with rural families and no industrial farms. We simply want to be a very important guarantee for times of crisis. We know how unstable the world is, and therefore, I believe, it is essential that we act here. I wouldn't have said it, but August Wöinger has enlivened me: I'm in favour of renaming the Farmers' Federation with a third B. Then we no longer have the problem, whether Brigitte Bardot or Farmers' Federation, but with the third B it is called the Farmers' and Officials' Federation, then we have also politically cared for the new members in the rural area, the officials you settle. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have already talked about political care today, and we already have a solution, so that they do not move around without plans and do not know where to join. I'll be back to the serious situation. This is an economy, it is a very regional client, it is about our small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, I should like to say that, with all the rights to Industry 4.0 and all that we are discussing in this House, 70 percent of employees work in small and medium-sized enterprises, and there are also regional circumstances that give personal appreciation. That must be our goal, even in times of the European Union, even in times of globalisation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15418	Mr President, I assume that the motion for a resolution will be put to the vote. You or another speaker later. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Unfortunately, that is no longer possible. You need to report again. Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15448	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Yes, it is about the EU project report, and I may also come back to what my previous speaker said about food sovereignty. Much more, however, was particularly concerned with me in the Committee that the Federal Minister spoke of more eco-social, less neoliberal. This is a nice keyword, basically it has to do with that you are also against the free, fair trade. Like Friedrich August von Hayek, I could now say that socialism and freedom already stand out by definition. In this respect, the eco-social orientation of your mind also has a problem with fair trade. I do not think it can be, because rural areas in particular need more trade and more freedom to operate this trade, because that is the added value that comes into these valleys. On the other hand, it is really interesting to consider food sovereignty and free trade and to realize that the EU imports of soya produce 35 million tonnes a year. This means a larger area than all of Austria, and yet we do not deal with it. At the same time, you say that's very bad, because that's neoliberal. Yeah, where do you think these soy products are coming from? - From Brazil, from South America. By definition, it is a very bad thing that one can obtain feed from all over the world on the free market, which is then not produced in the valley of Großarltal or elsewhere, but perhaps even from the Third World, where people in the production sites there do not become poorer, but perhaps even richer. In that respect, I think you have to redefine your keywords with which you throw around like hay. I'll tell you once again: Freedom is the important thing, namely freedom, how farmers can act. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The third point that I am simply going to deal with, and where Austria could at last be a pioneer in the European field, is rural development. I have already said that in committee: In the part of the government agreement on rural development, the word tourism does not occur once. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] That's a shame! That would be very important! If you are already talking about eco-social reform, you can't even mention the word tourism! [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] If I drive this rural development, I must merge it and not put it up against each other. That's something important. One thing you have to say quite clearly: Only where tourism is not anchored takes place. There, where tourism together with agriculture provides for winter, summer or whole year tourism, immigration and habitats take place. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Steinbichler.]] None of you see this habitat! You can't see this habitat! You and your Minister of Tourism, the Minister of Agriculture and Tourism do not have a common approach. That's disgraceful, that's a very bad thing for the future. Here we move towards a narrow ridge from which you no longer come down. I think you should rethink and see this eco-social so that different economic sectors can co-exist. They should have a common goal that they apply together, the host on site should be able to sell the product of the neighboring valley. That's why it's not about the false word neoliberal. Neoliberal means new freedom, and I'm a candidate for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15503	Next, Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15524	Madam President. Federal Minister! The previous speaker has already explained a lot to us. The topic of rural areas: Mr Preiner – where is he? [[Abg. Preiner: Here!]] The optimism in connection with the rural area honors him. I think we'll have to cheat soon; he's almost gone. This also shows: We forget that the farmer's death continues. We still have no definition of what small-structured agriculture is. All questions: What is even small-structured agriculture? Let's tell the farmers that we don't want to do this anymore, because it doesn't count anymore. We are talking about a rural area that is already depopulated, where there are already places, markets in which there are almost no inn and no mail anymore. I'm just thinking about glins with us in the South Styria. They said it didn't count, there were only 400 to 500 students. We'll lock up the agricultural school, and we'll give the students to schools somewhere else. The Federal Minister said that he gave up offices in the rural area, and I really liked it very much. At the same time, I must say that the same tax system applies to rural areas. That won't please many, but that's the same thing again. We are still talking about diesel taxation, including those who work and work in rural areas. It doesn't work in the back and in the front! In rural areas, perhaps only a few more people will be left and, like elsewhere, the last few Indians will jump around as a tourist attraction. This is a tragedy with us in the South Styria! We do not know how we are going to be the master of this problem. Regional management is discussing, but there is nowhere to be done. Those who have ideas don't give the money so they can move something, and without money, there's no Musi. However, I have thought about it, and Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned this: The report says quite cleverly – I have read it four times; I do not even trust to read it –: TTIP is a great story. We just have to wait until Trump's gone, then we can talk again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I've formulated it a little salopp now, but that's exactly what's inside! What does TTIP mean? – I have allowed myself to fix that to three points. I spoke to pig farmers as a result of the last committee meeting. You said there was a slight relaxation on the pigmeat market. I can say the following: In 1995, we had a pig population of 3.7 million, and in 2015 it was only 2.7 million. In 1995 there were 30,000 holders in the Styria with 1 million pigs, now we have only 6 225 holders with 755,000 pigs. In 1999, the population of breeding pigs in Austria was 344,000, and in 2016 it was only 241 000. Self-sufficiency: USA: 154 percent, Canada: 218 percent, EU cut: 117 percent, Austria: 103 percent. The US produces 11.2 million tonnes of pigmeat, Canada produces 1.8 million tonnes of pigmeat. – You can see how great TTIP can be. It is therefore a matter of concrete action. The measures are already beginning to reduce the level of self-sufficiency in the EU, which is a gigantonomy. To this end, the farmers have told me: All countries whose production is higher than the level of self-sufficiency of the EU must cease. Less 3 percent production brings 15 percent higher revenues. This is a concrete proposal. Of course, we are also talking about the Russian business, which is being bagatized everywhere, and this is still a disaster for our farmers. It is said that tax reforms are meant to be designed specifically for rural farms and to compensate for market distortions. All that has already been heard in the committees is mentioned. Today the designation of origin is used, and yes, the animal welfare is also addressed, but animal welfare here probably means human well-being, because animals really have little to do with it. But now comes the point you might be interested in: Clear target formulation and greater legal certainty for production, investment protection. The opinion on air, noise, health, water alone: These are costs from € 20 000 to € 50 000 before you even start, that's a scandal! Most people can't handle it at all. Second point, the hotly sought topic of water: We know that 5 500 water companies supply Austria to 92 percent and have lines of about 80 000 kilometres in length – the federal government is doing well. That Austria has a wonderful spring water, a deep water, is also known. We know, however, that because of climate change, all of this is not so safe anymore, but more wells need to be drilled. Due to heat periods et cetera the water becomes scarce. In addition, there are already enough places in Austria with high nitrate pollution, which is already partially silent here. Let's take a look at the data on the ni- Only three figures – 2013: 10 728 tonnes, 2014: 11 325 tonnes, 2015: 12 928 tonnes of plant protection products. This does not mean that the farmers are guilty of it, but the question is: Why not invest in research so that you can perhaps produce better plant protection products? The third point that really surprised me was nuclear energy. Of course, Austria's clear opposition to nuclear power is very plausible. But I was very surprised that the word Krško, for example, did not appear in the report, although Krško is right in front of our door, only 120 kilometres away. Think of Chernobyl in 1986 and Fukushima – that was, I think, 2011. The South Steirs still have a load of 40 to 60 Kilobecquerel in certain places today. This is still a consequence of Chernobyl. That is why everything must be done at European and bilateral level towards Slovenia. Krško is still on an earthquake line; there have been about 180 ground shocks there. If it had been exposed to an earth blast like that of 1640, it would have been a strength of 7 after the scale of the judge, and that would not have prevented the nuclear power station. The 180 earths had a strength between 3.5 and 5.7. I beg you, do everything you can to shut Krško down! We know that they have now extended their term; it will have reached 60 years of existence. That's a terrible thing and a concern for the South Steirs! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15569	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15590	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riemer, on plant protection products: You know very well that about a third is used in the private home gardens and at the ÖBB. That is why we should be fair, without pointing our fingers at others, and not pretending that agriculture alone would be producing plant protection products. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] Since Mr Steinbichler meant – he's not in the hall right now; yet, he's here – that one should rename the peasantry, I have to say that I'm not afraid of this anymore. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Yes!]] Since you left, it's gotten better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I say quite frankly, you don't miss us if I can tell you that too. It's remarkable: In your speeches as Federal Council you said that the Farmers' Federation was the best organization, the cooperative the best. [[Abg. Steinbichler: I was still there!]] You've mocked everyone else, you can read it. But since you didn't have a chance there after a guest match at the Dinkhauser list, you changed to Stronach. With the end of the legislative period, however, time is over, then the farmers will have peace in front of you, dear colleague Steinbichler – unless there is a new list again, then you will surely find space there; that may be. [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Steinbichler]] You already have to prepare the application letter. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn said fair trade, tourism and agriculture should be better linked. In this I give him a right – undisputed – because they mean one another: Farmers need tourism, because this makes it possible to sell a huge price, and in the opposite way tourism needs agriculture, because in the end the farmers and farmers manage the land. I have nothing against fair trade, I have nothing against free trade as long as it is fair, but I would also like fair production conditions. It is exciting when the European Union is promoting institutions outside the European Union that do not have to comply with animal welfare standards. I have a document here on pig farming in Bulgaria – this time within the EU. In Bulgaria, the pig price is the same as in Austria, but you get € 15 in addition to support and the five years, the staff gets € 350, the project is funded to 70 percent! [[Abg. Steinbichler:... Landerbund!]] – That's where the Farmers' Federation is responsible?- Oh, my God! No, I'm more afraid there's a second Leo Steinbichler down there. This is certainly the greater fear, ladies and gentlemen! This project is, as has been said, 70 percent supported. Similar to Serbia: 50 percent promotion, which is not repayable, although there are terms such as animal protection or manure storage. Ladies and gentlemen, we might well think about how fair conditions, not only fair trade, but also fair production, are guaranteed, so that we do not compete in European markets. We are for fair trade, for fair production, but then for all under the same conditions, whether animal protection or other things. One thing will not work: in Austria, to constantly raise the latte and thus operate a displacement of the small farmers. Mr Steinbichler, there will be an opportunity tomorrow to put the goods on the table on the subject of animal protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15696	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15717	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! The current debate is not to be seen, but this is not only a report on the annual report on agricultural policy, but also, in fact, on the annual report on environmental policy. The fact that this is being mixed in this way is a reflection of politics as it is made. We have called on the Committee to separate the reports and to assign them to the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment. Then we could have an extra debate on this today, and that would not be so difficult, Minister, you would only have to share the report in the middle. [[Keeping two documents in height]] This would not be an additional burden, but then we would simply have had the reports in place and could be discussing them in a serious way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Then you should talk to the chairman of the committee!]] You know that reports are assigned. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: But not from me! This is Parliament's case! That's what you've got to do...!]] The assignment to the Committee is Parliament's concern, but whether we get one or two reports is yours. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] I am grateful to you for having received a clear answer from you in the Committee for the first time. I asked you to do this in the future, to separate the reports so that we could assign them extra, and I got an answer from you, but the answer was: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – I think everyone can now take a picture of what is being tried to discuss here and what is not. On the report itself: I'm going to the environmental section now. My previous speaker Mr Pirklhuber and others have already mentioned it: The report itself simply does not provide any information. The Federal Constitutional Act says: ‘Every Federal Minister shall report to the National Council (...) on the projects of the Council (...) and on the expected Austrian position on these projects.’ You don't do that! For example, in the climate chapter, they write that there is the climate agreement, how many states have now agreed and what is now to be done. - Yeah, I don't need the report to do that. We know this here in the house, after all, we have ratified the climate agreement. The question is: What are you doing to advance European climate and energy policy? How do you bring yourself in? . I would like to draw your attention to your responsibility for Austria holding the Presidency in autumn 2018. We are responsible for EU climate and energy policy. You do not pay any attention to this in your report. It doesn't happen. That's not how it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only thing you address is several loopholes in climate protection policy. That's not how it is! Mr Minister, you have still not explained your fatal statement on the tax equality of petrol and diesel. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: This is a call for environmental speakers...!]] I'll try to do that again. – This is not the way environmental policy is going! Austria urgently needs an independent, strong, committed Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15804	The Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15826	Madam President. High house! I would like to begin, if you allow, with a replica to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: The allocation of a report to any committee is Parliament's and not the Minister's. Therefore, if you make it to me that we do not discuss this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the criticism is inconceivable. I would ask you to make this up with the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that is my knowledge, Mrs Brunner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Jannach and you have accused me of being too thin. I also reject this criticism. We have responded to earlier criticisms and have made the report clear, brief and precise, and put it to the point. We will be presenting you with a 70-page report on the environment and a 70-page report on agriculture next time, and I am convinced that You will again criticize me here or in the committee, wherever you discuss this, that the report is too comprehensive. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We will present this in the Presidential!]] I can guarantee you that it will. But back to the topic: We have had a very constructive debate on this report, at least on the part of the government parties and some opposition parties, on this work report, especially in the agricultural sector, on the Council of Agriculture Ministers. Mr Pirklhuber! If you criticise the change in the rural development programme or if You criticise the fact that this is not in the report, I must say: We are discussing the work programme in the Council, but the rural development programme is not currently the subject of the Agriculture Council. There is an existing Council and Parliament regulation. On this basis, we have presented our rural development programme and have been approved in the Commission as the first programme in 2014, and we have now negotiated and presented two amendments with the Commission. This is not part of the work programme in the Council, therefore not the content of the report. I would like to focus very briefly on the points. We have had a wide-ranging debate. Of course, and was particularly the market crisis last year, especially due to the disappearance of one of our most important third country markets, namely Russia in 2014, which is the determining issue and will also continue to deal with us. The management of this market crisis especially in the milk sector has been very positive here in the House of Lords last year in the milk dialogue – I think it was very broad involvement by the experts and MEPs as well. We have adopted ten concrete measures. One point, for example, was the amendment of the rural development programme – through national measures, EU measures – and we have implemented it. In the meantime, especially in the dairy sector, we have indeed had a relaxation, because we in the European Union, with our proposal – which was decided in the milk dialogue – to carry out a voluntary milk supply recovery action. That's what we did last year, and it's still going on now. We have extended our national contribution for the first quarter and this action is taking place. We have a relaxation at the dairy market! Mr Pirklhuber, if you accuse me that 14 Upper Austrian farmers still do not have a supply contract, please also tell us who then advised these farmers to withdraw from their contracts. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 37!]] – These were the green farmers, that was the UBV and it was Leo Steinbichler. Tell me that too! You have the responsibility! [[Abg. Lugar: Who?]] They drove the farmers in there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And who cares about it now? – The only ones to take care of this are President Schultes, President Auer and the Minister. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... will do your cabinet boss...!]] The Austrian farmers can rely on them, and they know that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The topic of the environment: The year 2017 is a very intensive year, in particular the presentation on the implementation of environmental policy in the Member States is on the agenda, on the topic of circular economy, on the topic of water, on soil protection, on biodiversity, on air quality. [[Abg. Brunner: Exactly! But you have...!]] If you read these reports, you can find that we are at the front. We are in the top league in all areas, because our environmental policy is both nationally and at EU level. I'm sure we don't have to hide there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also a good thing, because the Greens have adopted environmental policy. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Here you go!]] They are only more concerned with their party youth and with “Dancing Stars”. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15953	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e15979	Well, it was obvious: If the technical arguments are too brief, then the polemics will continue from the government bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Prince:... the truth!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has clearly stated here that rural development would not be part of the EU Commission's annual forecast 2017. I quote from Your report, Minister of State: ‘One further step is the ‘Omnibus Regulation’ presented in September 2016, which also provides for amendments to certain points of the CAP basic regulations (VO 1305/2013 Rural Development...) and other regulations. This is explicitly referred to, Minister, as you have not submitted anything to the committee. I'm holding this straight and clear. What you're showing here is unworthy of this house. That's unworthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16033	Deputies! You know what the Rules of Procedure are like?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16048	Madam President. Just one word, because it affected me personally.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16072	Deputies! It is also not a personal response in this case, but the actual correction, I think, has been taken note of.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16088	Madam President. I would just have attached a second one, which belongs to my first correction. The Minister has said that I have done nothing for farmers and I am responsible for these poor dairy farmers who do not have a customer now. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I really think this is a last-class thing when a minister to a Member of this House...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16124	Deputies! This goes beyond actual correction. I have a statement on another actual correction. Mr Steinbichler, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a clear rule in the Rules of Procedure: They announce and respond to the part to be corrected. That is what the Rules of Procedure provide. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16151	Madam President. Mr Rupprechter claimed that I would have consulted with the Greens those farmers who do not now have a supply contract. I'm going to point this out! I have never advised these farmers. I was a founder of the IG milk and have never had anything to do with free milk.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16182	That is what we are continuing in the speaker list. The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen. I'll set you two minutes of voluntary speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16203	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Höfinger: Leo has a confession...!]] I'm not going to make any corrections. In the European agricultural policy, the Federal Minister has set himself the objective of further development of the CAP and a stronger social orientation. – In this community one can agree very well, however, one goes into detail, then there are a number of points, of topics where one has to pay particular attention to the Austrian situation. First of all, there is the area of the environment. Agriculture is the area most affected by environmental issues: On the one hand, it itself has an impact on the environment – through the use of fertilizers and pesticides – but also external influences, such as climate change and pollution. Austria has a very small agricultural structure in Europe, and in order to be able to stand against the agricultural industry, we have set ourselves the goal of forcing organic and genetic-technology-free agriculture. My colleague, Mr Preiner, has already said that we need to be a pioneer at EU level in order to be able to truly market our products. We meet the immediate needs of people in rural areas and consumers. I am already in rural areas. It is certainly not enough to secure the farming family farms, but the announced rural master plan is in line with this objective. However, the Hohe Haus should be informed accordingly. In this context, I can still inform you about the situation in the municipalities: The current government decision will help municipalities to invest € 175 million in the next two years. The action of Federal Minister Stöger, namely the “Action 20 000”, will also make it easier for the communities to share certain jobs with older jobseekers. These are important rural projects. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16240	Next, Mr Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16261	Madam President. Minister! High house! This item is about the Ministry's report on the EU's annual report on agricultural issues and on environmental issues. I would like to join my free speecher, Harald Jannachan. I think we can agree on this – even if the discussion here has something to do with the appearance of a coffee ride; since the ÖVP gangs are being squeaked, I think that is quite bizarre: If Mr Rupprechter believes that a 16-page report on such an important matter is enough, then, I believe, there is really a fire on the roof in both agriculture and environmental policy, because many farmers and businesses in this Republic are under great pressure. There's nothing funny about that. If this is done with a 16-page report, this does not correspond to the strategy of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to focus on two specific things that are most affected by this report. On the one hand, Mr Minister, you know, the Russian sanctions, which have not only put difficult pressure on the Austrian economy but, of course, also on agriculture. We know about the intrusions that are not so easy to bet, in view of the then the European Union or our Federal Government has bound almsenpackages instead of finally putting up for the suspension or termination of the Russian sanctions. Once again, the policymakers are coming to the plan, and we know the announcement politician number one in this Republic, which is Sebastian Kurz, who is reversing the EU, who wants to protect the external borders et cetera et cetera. Although he has also repeatedly spoken about the Russian sanctions, only: Nothing happens! [[Mr Grillitsch and Mr Höfinger.]] I can show you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, two requests from the FPÖ that were submitted in mid-June and mid-December to the EU's main committee, where we called for the end to abolish Russia's sanctions. That can't go on anymore! You will also hear this daily about the economy and the farmers in this Republic. Don't pretend you don't care! Last thing: TTIP. Mr Steinbichler has quite rightly put this to the fore. He's been talking about food sovereignty, we also support it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] I believe that it must be an objective to create food sovereignty and to strengthen regionalisation. But especially the EIA is very active when it comes to whipping through any free trade agreement by any institution, so that our market is then flooded by some bizarre food that I personally do not want to know about. These are two points, Mr Minister, concerning which I ask you and your Ministry of Agriculture and also the Federal Government to take action. I think that's what our Republic deserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16333	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16355	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! A number of creative speeches have been made in the House, but, Mr Hoebart, a debate on agriculture has been made to use it to base the Foreign Minister, which is quite obnoxious – honestly. They may thus be fulfilling the party line, but this does not benefit the farmers at all and does not bring the farmers a single millimeter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In fact, this year is a very important year for domestic agriculture, because we are at the beginning of the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy. From 2021 there will be a new EU financial period, since all policies will be re-evaluated, renegotiated – including the common agricultural policy. I think that this is particularly remarkable in the present time when Europe is undoubtedly in a crisis – Sebastian Kurz has mentioned this and also stated that there is a need for reform. But if there is a clamp in this common Europe, then this is the common agricultural policy, because there is no national single market in the agricultural sector, but that the agricultural sector in Europe is being successfully managed together, provides for sustainable food. [[Abg. Lugar: But this kills Austrian farmers!]] That's why I also have the polemics of Klubobmann Arbitrators as not particularly original when he said that there are too many cows in the EU and too little infrastructure. – Needless, unnecessary! Durable foods are one of the central points. Mr Preiner said that, and I agree. And how do you get liquefied food? – There is a common agricultural policy that ensures ecology. It is therefore important that Austria is properly prepared and also involved in the current consultation process, where it says: We want to continue the ecological, sustainable path of farming on the basis of farmed family farms. This is important, even for fair trade. Not free trade is the dogma, but a fair trade. Mr Schellhorn referred to Soya as: Yes, our goal must be to produce protein feed as much as possible in Europe – but not because the Americans are evil, but because the majority of imported soya has changed genetically, and this is what our consumers reject. It is therefore good that the European Parliament has now slowed down the European Commission, which wants to have a change in the cultivation of green areas, with the effect that less protein plants or soya are grown. This is positive, and I hope that the European Commission will come to an understanding. Finally, I'll give you Schellhorn: It has always been the case in rural areas that agriculture and tourism have to work together. This is the only way to achieve an added effect in terms of job security and cooperation. This path is also to be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16406	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16428	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! EU annual agricultural forecast: In all cases On the other hand, Mr Minister, we hear this again and again and again, and we know that from the Green Report: The income of farms, farmers and farmers is falling. I am right, Mr Minister, if you say that the common agricultural policy must also be a priority for farmers' family farms. This is an important approach which is out of question. But it is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, that farmers are not overcrowded and burdened with even more bureaucracy, for that is almost impossible to deal with. There must be simplification, because if you talk to farmers, farmers of agriculture, everyone will say: This enormous bureaucracy is almost impossible to deal with! – I think that’s exactly where you have to sit and relieve the farmers of these things. Russia's sanctions have also been addressed. Yes, it is, not only in the car supplier industry, but also in agriculture, we have massive losses. We've got to try and get this out of here. The fact is that we have already discussed it in a previous item on the agenda today: It is important to strengthen rural areas. I am right for Mr Schellhorn to say that we need to look at new developments. The fact that farmers produce excellent products in our farms is out of question, but rural areas need to be strengthened in every way so that we can still have a future in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16470	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16491	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God we still have in Austria a rural structure, a small-structured agriculture. [[Abg. Lugar: Still!]] Thank God! Mr. Lugar, you know why we got her? – Because there are hard-working farmers and because, thanks to the peasantry, there has been a responsible agricultural policy in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lugar: Still!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's the difference! The opposition parties are constantly talking about a renationalisation of agricultural policy. What does that mean? – Out of the EU, 50 percent less for farmers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Let us speak to this openly, ladies and gentlemen. 50 percent less for the miners, 50 percent less for the environmental programme. [[Abg. Lugar: You think that's what I'm going to do!]] – This is the realistic assessment there is. We must also tell the farmers and the people in Austria. [[Abg. Lugar: Is against logic!]] Others stand here demanding higher standards, even higher standards. Do you know what higher standards mean? – A source for this small peasant structure, because the farmers can no longer afford to do so. [[Abg. Lugar: How do you get on it?]] The other – self-proclaimed prophets such as Mr Pirklhuber and my dear friend Steinbichler – stand here for years and say: IG-Milch, IG-Fleisch, higher prices, we destroy the cooperative, we destroy these agricultural structures so farmers get better prices! And what is the result? – The result is that now 37 farmers – Pirklhuber, thanks to your responsible agricultural policy and influence! – no longer receive milk supply contracts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Incredible, now Pirklhuber's fault!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I would also like to say quite frankly that if we want to maintain this rural structure, we must take note of it: Farmers and consumers sit in a boat. We are absolutely required to face up to these market mechanisms – which are there to say: few determine how high profit maximisation and revenue maximisation are at the expense of all – together. We need to change this so that farmers in this country can get better prices and we can maintain these rural structures. [[Abg. Lugar: And what are you doing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are making a good agricultural policy, a good one! – The result is visible, Mr Lugar: a rural structure, which is also the basis for a thriving tourism, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Lugar: Who knows?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, help to strengthen the farmers. Help us to launch market programmes, such as mother-breeding programmes, quality-oriented for farmers so that meat production in the mountainous and rural areas is not lost. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... premium...!]] Help us introduce the energy transition so that the biogas operators do not have to lock their plants. [[Abg. Brunner: That's what you're telling us! That's a bad joke!]] I was in Stockholm now, Mrs Brunner. Stockholm is home to 90 percent biomass energy. Biogas, waste management: Let us look at these systems, they are also exemplary for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16679	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on another point of fact. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16704	Madam President. I shall endeavour to carry out this entirely in accordance with the rules of business. Mr Grillitsch has said here that I would be committed to it or that I would have said – and I would have done so too – that: If we destroy agriculture, we destroy the cooperatives. I'm actually correcting: I have always used myself only for fair prices for dairy farmers, for more than 40 cents per litre of milk. That's it! I have never called myself for the destruction of cooperatives, and that is and that remains so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16740	Mrs Mag. Brunner spoke a second time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16761	Madam President. I would like to continue with my colleague's speech, he said: Where the contentions stop, it becomes polemic. I'd like to make a few things clear. Firstly, Mr Minister, only what comes into Parliament can be allocated to a committee. They provide us with a report, and we in Parliament agreed that we should assign it to the Committee on Agriculture in one year and, next year, to the Committee on the Environment, i.e. alternate, because we have only one report. If you would give us two reports, we could deal with them every year where they belong. That's the first one. The second, you still have not made your complete demand to adjust the diesel tax not to the petrol, but vice versa, and are now speaking out to the Green Environment Councils. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: This is a call for the Green Climate Protection Officers!]] I am now reading to you what the climate change stakeholders, under the green presidency, have decided in Bregenz. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: You must read out the decisions of June 2016!]] It was decided – I read it to you – that: “Development of proposals for an eco-social tax reform incl. Elimination of counter-productive tax mechanisms (e.g. the tax advantage of diesel fuels) and the introduction of a CO2 levy in the course of the preparation of the Federal Budget for 2018’. – This is the current decision of climate change stakeholders. So explain how you have come to know about the completely back-to-back statement I have never heard from any Environment Minister that you have to reduce taxes on petrol, so that they are as high as diesel. Next: You have said that you have already included all relevant topics in your report. – Yes, well, I have not criticised the fact that the topics of circular economy, water management, climate protection, energy transition are not included in your report, and I am not concerned with the number of pages, but with the quality and information content of the report. I have criticized the fact that you have all mentioned the topics, but nowhere have you presented the Austrian position on them. But you have another opportunity to do so. Tell us how you feel about the European Parliament's decision to increase the recycling targets to 70 percent, as you stand as the reduction target for food waste, which measures you will take in the case of packaging! When do you adopt the 2016–2021 National Water Management Plan? – It’s already 2017! – How do you want to finance this? And how do you work to ensure that the European Union's climate and energy policy is designed in such a way as to comply with the Paris Convention on Climate Change? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16814	Mr Steinbichler spoke a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16836	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This is the general difference, and I am very grateful for today's debate, because today it has really been clear: Me and we help every farmer and every farmer. They don't necessarily have to be like you farmers' federal officials. That is, I think, a very important difference. I would be ashamed in your place – if only you knew how many peasant federal officials came to help. President Auer has shown today that my arguments are true, and I am proud of them. I don't need to repeat what I said earlier because I'm still saying the same thing. President Grillitsch, you gave me the stage for that. When I joined the EU, I still distributed farmland brochures. We have brought the farmers into this EU with four promises, with the degressive payments, with the CAP, with the compensatory payments we have said that they are the compensation that we had to partially reduce prices by 50 percent on the day of accession to the EU. And today you say the farmers should not leave because then they would lose it again. My dear friend! The work of the Minister and the Federal Government even taxed these compensatory payments on the increase in unit value. Against the decisions of the Federal Government to relieve work, we have received livestock supplements, we have this compensation in tax. You should actually know what you're doing. Sometimes I feel you're not aware of what you're doing. Mr Berlakovich was there, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Harald Jannach, Mr Erwin Preiner, all the agricultural speakers. We were together a year ago with the Minister for Agriculture of Slovenia, Minister Židan. In Slovenia they have an average operating size of seven hectares. In Slovenia there is a promotion of young farmers, a premium of 45 000 €. Ladies and gentlemen. Who, do you think, complained to the EU Commission? – Austria! Just think what you are doing, for you are no longer in secret. The time is over when you could say: We're the only ones, we're a country lawyer! – You have always used this for yourselves, but now take note of the result! You've been driving the Carn Agriculture in the street graves. Now he's on the roof and you're looking for the guilty. – Painful, embarrassing, embarrassing! That's all I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] However, in order for us to come to the future, I can make a very essential motion for a resolution because I believe that we could solve the problem on the spot with the Austrian Quality Seal Act, which has been postponed in this House since 2009. Minister! You're at the environmental conferences, you know how much palm oil is in our food, in the biodiesel, in the detergents, in the baking agents, in the Linz cake, in the ice cream and anywhere in it. Why do you pick that up? Why do you dare to take the word surplus into your mouth? I will come to the P.A. immediately again with the foreign trucks with the animals. You lie to our consumers and our farmers. I can't! This threatens the future and especially the food sovereignty. I would like to make the following request in order to end this gift of goodness: [[Quoted print version removed]] I emphasize: for all food produced in Austria. - We ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e16918	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17006	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. If the rapporteur wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-351 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on the Quality Seal Act. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. [[15:48:41]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1434/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, Members and colleagues on ‘Protected geographical indications (PGI)’ (1555 final) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1393/A(E) by Mrs Harald Jannach, on the amendment of the AMA Labelling Directive on Working and Processing Products as regards the permitted tolerance limits for spices and fruit in Austrian products (1556, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Citizens' Initiative (80/BI) on "FAIRE LEBENSMITTEL" (1557 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17095	This brings us to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klinger is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17122	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Listeners! If we talk about proper agricultural policy in this House and have to close their farms every day to the five farmers, I don't know if this statement is a bit missing, and I'm only going about so far as to say that we could also even get rid of it with a quote from earlier times by saying: I didn't accept this condition, but I couldn't help myself. Then one would be at least a bit more honest in this debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In connection with the protected geographical indication, I would first like to refer to a success model, namely the Austrian wine industry, the Austrian wine industry, which after the wine scandal has become better and better placed and which has made a major contribution to the fact that our skilled winegrowers are now known throughout Europe and throughout the world and can sell their products at a much higher price than they did a few decades ago. Why did this happen? – It has therefore happened because, especially in the wine sector, enormous importance is placed on the fact that a designation of origin is also a designation of origin. Let's take the DAC wine district – everyone knows what that means; everyone knows each other. What did that do? – This has caused Austrian wines in the white wine sector to become the best in the world and also in the red wine sector absolute world peak with a genuineness that seeks the same. [[Call to the ÖVP:And who did this?]] This in turn means that tourism has also been boosted accordingly and the small wine regions have really built up an excellent own tourism from the Wachau to the South Styria. The question has just been asked who did this. First of all, you have to mention Austria's wine marketing. The Austria Wein Marketing is a success story, a team that has begun not only to secure the quality here in Austria, but to continue to raise the level of marketing that has made our wine a well-known cultural heritage all over the world. But what happened to Austria's wine marketing? – The promised support of € 8 million, if I see it correctly, from the Ministry of Agriculture has been withdrawn. I don't know if this is the right access. This €8 million must now be replaced by the farmers, the wine producers. I believe that a protected designation of origin will also be very important for agriculture as a whole if we want to help farmers in our small-structured agriculture. That means in the clear text: Mondser cheese must also be Mondser cheese! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we look at the various AMA products, we have a huge problem, namely that you don't even really know yourself with the AMA quality seals. Austrian AMA seal allows 33 percent, a third other raw materials. Then there is also a Bavarian, a European seal, and there must be an attempt to use these products to ensure that our products can also be inside. On the motions for resolutions or on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Stronach team, I must say that this request was tabled by our group very long ago, and was also addressed to the Federal Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17168	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17189	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Mr Klinger, I have to object a little bit to what you have just said, namely that the AMA seal is no longer known. – The AMA seal is exactly the quality seal in Austria, to which the consumers trust and wherever is actually what is inside, namely Austrian products, products of animals born, raised and slaughtered in Austria. That is what consumers know and they trust in it. It is, I believe, not beneficial if you try to misinterpret the AMA seal over and over again. We must already be aware that in Austria we generally have a very high level of quality in the food sector. Whether they are organic farmers who produce whether they are large or small or conventional or whether they are sold in farm stores or in supermarket chains: In general, consumers can be sure that we have good food and that they can also rely on it. The AMA seal confirms this, and the surveys also show us that it is just like that. It is also not about that this quality rail contributes to the fact that consumers really want to know what is inside. A survey says that 80 percent of our consumers want to know exactly where a product comes from. I believe that we are on the road very well, and that is why I would also like to highlight the citizens' initiative on fair food very positively, because it is trying precisely in these areas. Every consumer who buys from us regionally secures jobs, protects our cultural landscape and our agriculture. This is something quite, quite essential, because we already need to teach our consumers, to teach them even more: Once they reach on foreign products, we can no longer see where that comes from, and in these cases we usually import animal suffering or other plant protection provisions from our neighbouring countries. A study by JKU Linz states that if our consumers bought 10 percent more regional products, 10,000 new jobs would be created. This is a number that should necessarily give us some thought. I would like to comment very briefly on the AMA gas seal, because I have also commented on it in committee. I am very busy traveling in my region, I am very much in system gastronomy, gastronomy and at regional providers. The gastronomy that works with regionality and advertising, they are all successful. This is a win-win situation: for consumers, for farmers and, of course, for gastronomy. It would, of course, be desirable if, according to the Swiss model, we were to seek a starting point in this area. However, I would also like to say that the economic freedom of gastronomy is naturally to be taken into account. That is what I see, and I am therefore opposed to a legal introduction of this engagement. We are all called upon to teach consumers even more regionality, to tell them that it is very important for us and that they do not necessarily do a favor with the purchase of foreign food from our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17231	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17253	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofinger has now rightly pointed out the possibilities offered by the AMA seal, but there are also other seals on the market, and quite a lot of them, Mr Hofinger, who advertise with “Made in Austria”, including food where there are no Austrian raw materials. Because you have said that you are against a legal rule, I would also like to quote the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation here and point out to the farmers' association that you yourself are very well aware of it in your publications. I can refer to the link mentioned in my request because I have clearly stated in the explanatory statement: ‘The Chamber of Agriculture (LK) requires, for example, a mandatory designation of origin of meat and egg products in the gastronomy.’ Mr Hofinger! You are also a farmer's federal member, perhaps you will talk to the Lower Austrian colleagues, because they consider this to be very useful. Especially in eggs, for example, there is a great deal of schindluder being driven in the processing industry. Industry eggs are being traded globally. And the most extreme example is that European export promotions are installed in Ukraine's stables, which produce well below the European standard. The stables are no longer allowed in Europe, but have been exported there with export money, with promotions, and then in a free trade agreement with Ukraine an import quota of 1,600 tonnes of dry egg has been granted to them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely inconsistent! This is the destruction of European food safety. [[Demonstrative applause with the Stronach team.]] We can't explain this with any Jota. Mr Minister, I also expect you to make a clear statement at European level. That's where you have to introduce the bar accordingly. I think you have already expressed yourself in the Council. Perhaps you can make a comment on this. On the requests made by Mr Jannach concerning the AMA seal law: Yes, quite right, we also have consistency problems with the AMA. Freedom of genetic engineering is a central concern of Austrian consumers. 1.2 million citizens have signed the popular desire with the demand: No genetic engineering on the plate! But in the AMA seal not in all brand programs Gentechniksoja is eliminated. There are still programs where Gensoja is used. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just not consistent. Minister, you are responsible: That's off! That is why we will, of course, support Mr Jannach's request. As far as the G.G.A. sign is concerned – at European level; Mr Steinbichler's request – that is, I must say, a gap and a confusion strategy. Either a product is actually produced in a region and has a geographical origin – namely, raw materials and processing are in one hand, are in this region, as always defined, and that is understandable to the consumer – or not! When it comes to buying raw materials in Spain and perhaps processing them in Upper Austria, you can then go on to buy raw materials in Spain. says because his processing company is there, then it is misleading and deception. A reform is therefore necessary. It would also be good if we could perhaps make consensus on the Committee and bring together a common proposal in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17310	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17331	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! [[The speaker places some utensils on the speaker's desk.]] I refer to Mr Steinbichler's request, which calls for the abolition of the PDO mark. Undisputed is that consumers want more information, require more transparency. It has already been mentioned in the discussion that there are already many national quality marks where the question exists: Does this contribute more to informing the consumer, or is there no more confusion resulting from it? It is also undisputed that Austria is well known for the quality of its food and that we in Europe define ourselves as a fine food store in Austria, with which exports of course also play an important role for our food industry. If we want to have exports, it is also important, I believe, that there are rules and European markings. We see the success of these European markings in the area of the European Union bio-logos, where all bio-products have a single label across Europe. What I would like to see here is that, if we conclude international trade agreements, we would also use nationally to ensure that these protection provisions, which we have achieved in Austria, are also included in these international trade agreements. Now the question is: What do we want to do with these quality marks? – I think it is important for people, they want the quality and whatever has already been mentioned, to regulate regionality. [[The speaker presents a bottle of olive oil and a tablet on which a round red and yellow seal is shown with the inscription “Protected designation of origin” on the speaker’s desk.]] So if a customer acquires this olive oil and finds this label on it, he must be able to trust that for this cretan olive oil the olives were grown and picked in Crete and also processed in Crete. That means, as a customer, I can rely on it: If this bottle bears this red quality mark, this geographical designation of origin, then it is both the product and the processing from the region. In Austria there are ten products that are allowed to carry this red seal of quality. The protected geographical indication is critical and controversial. In Austria, there are six products that have this protected geographical indication. Of course, this product of the Tyrolean bacon is particularly controversial. [[Keeping a corresponding food pack in height]] What does protected geographical indication mean? – Protected geographical indication means in this case: Production is carried out in Tyrol... [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... a completely different sign! Protected geographical origin!]] This is the protected geographical indication. [[The speaker put another panel on which a round blue-yellow seal with the inscription “Protected geographical indication” is shown on the speaker’s desk.]] If you see this blue sign, you know: This is produced in Tyrol, the raw materials can come from somewhere. However, it is the quality that can be processed. It is regulated how the processing is to be done. All of this is regulated. However, as has been said, the raw materials may come from everywhere. And where we have a grey area here is that the quality rules for these g.g.A. products are very different. If we take the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil for example, it is clear that the core is regulated. That means it must be an Austrian core. The cultivation area is clearly regulated, which may be: Styria, Burgenland, Lower Austria. And it is clear in which areas this oil can be processed. But if we say now, we're going to make this g.g.A. off, then also the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil is gone! That means, of course, we have topics on how we can better explain the quality of this seal of goodness to consumers. I just did it, I said, You can be sure, with red, content and packaging together, with blue, content and packaging can be a little different. I'm afraid so. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Well, it was a Sickerwitz, gal, colleague! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] The third thing that still exists: There is a third sign, and this is guaranteed traditional specialty. It looks like this. [[The speaker holds a pack of hay milk and a table on which the title “Provided traditional specialty” can be read.]] In Austria there is one that has the hay milk. We can be proud of this product, and I would also like us to see more of such products in trade, that consumers too are increasingly involved in such products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17414	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17435	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mr Vogl has given us an explanation report, especially the viewers in front of the screens and on the gallery, as it is with the designations of origin, which I consider very important. But Mr Pirklhuber has also said one thing, and that is that there are too many labels, far too many labels, where basically no one knows each other and, above all, the customer no longer knows. I think the request is good. Better and better in all cases, the geographical origin, i.e., the point of view, should be forced. If I want to do something for a common story, then you know Chianti, then think of the Parma ham, then think of the Parmesan. In so far... – No, the Tyrolean bacon is a little different. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Tiroler Speck!]] Basically, it would be very nice – my previous speakers have said it, also the colleague from the FPÖ: With the wine we made it, why don't we do it with the food now and for ourselves? Why are we not able to continue this proposal, to make it mandatory for geographical origin, in so far as we, as I mentioned earlier, to use it together, jointly for tourism and agriculture, and jointly to develop a brand strategy on how we can improve each other and live on it, so that no emigration does not happen? I can live with the fact that it's just that way. However, I cannot live with it, as I do in the Committee on Agriculture by a number of colleagues – I do not know what Mr Hofinger and his opinion say when he mentions it with Switzerland: It should be the same as in Switzerland, but then it should not be mandatory. I believe that the designation of origin is as it is the wish of some political groups – that I can write on the menu, today I have a Carinthian milk, and tomorrow I may not get it, then I have to rewrite my menu – that is absolute nonsensus. Let the company have freedom! If they want to specialize and if they want to highlight regionality, they also see this as the positioning of a market opportunity. Then let them make it voluntary, but don't write it to them! Minister! They mentioned in a newspaper interview themselves that the Allergens Regulation is counterproductive, was a weak sign and is actually counterproductive for everything because it is no longer taken seriously and should be taken back. Why should we now bring another label in food cards of gastronomy and yet confuse the customer? – This is the wrong starting point.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17472	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17493	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the declaration of the products, however, we also have to come to the base, and that is ultimately the production. That is where we agree, and that was now in many speeches, I think I should also hear that we want to produce high quality in Austria and continue to do so. It was all the more surprising to me that I had to read the following from SPÖ-Klubobmann: ‘Less money for cows, more money for infrastructure’. – This was in an Austrian daily newspaper. It was a confession that brought no joy to agriculture and was rather very depressing. I think it has to be a misunderstanding, because things play so messy against each other, that's just not all right. It is also basic, because more money for cows is also more money for infrastructure! This is money for veterinary costs, for veterinary costs, which are particularly high in small farms, and today we have had several confessions to small farms. More money for cows is more money for infrastructure when it comes to the collection of milk, where you also drive to the small farmers in the small regions. That's what I'm That's important. Here the costs are higher. This needs to be supported in order to preserve the regional economy with dairies through the raw material. More money for cows is more money for infrastructure: for stable buildings, for investments. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Tomorrow, we will adopt an animal welfare law, which calls on farmers, in particular, to come up with more animal welfare. However, this also means high construction costs, and for small quantities these are particularly high. More money for cows means and is more money for infrastructure especially in the area of tourism, where we ourselves write on the flags, one of the most beautiful countries in the world and in the European Union. The President of nature friends should also know that an intact environment is maintained by an intact agriculture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But more money for cows is more money for infrastructure also in the preservation of slaughterhouses. This is the question: How can we produce regionally if the basic product is ultimately missing? – We no longer need to discuss the whole other area of engagement if we do not create the basics that they have framework conditions that they can also produce. If the broadband infrastructure is meant here under infrastructure: Well, then hope up, please talk to Federal Minister Leichtfried! Here is 1 billion € broken, which is given mainly for bidders and less than investment in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17563	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17584	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Thank you – Mr Vogl has already explained this first step with the abolition of the G.G.A. sign relatively plausible and sustainable, because it is really possible here to create a Tyrolean bacon with Danish pigs and Hungarian firewood. Only with the step of processing, with the step of packaging it is possible to use this g.g.A. sign. That is why, I believe, it is really crucial for consumers, too, that we strike this picnic forest. By the way, I am very disappointed about the matter with Commissioner Hogan. Mr Minister, you were there during the debate we had in this House over a year ago. He has promised to answer because he did not know that this P.A. sign is not a security sign. No answer to this day! We have written a complaint to the European Commission asking for it to support us after it became known that Commissioner Hogan works very carefully at all. We will, of course, support Mr Jannach's request. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that there is also AMA-suitable palm oil? Do you know how much palm oil is in the feed? – We feed rainforest, from the milk exchanger with the calves about the piglets, about the dog feed, about the cat feed, about the fish feed. Rainforest is fed everywhere, so to speak. That's why: Clear support! To our third point: fair food. I can very much thank Fritz Jeitler with his team, with his initiative. I think this is really encouraging for all citizens: You can move something if you move from one thing is convinced. Over 16 000 signatures already exist for this activity, for this initiative. We are also putting forward a motion for a resolution, from the point of view of employment and the economic factor. If I may explain this briefly, just as it is justified in the Fritz Jeitler initiative, which is the starting point for a clear designation of origin – otherwise everything will not help us, colleague jewelry beaters, all appeals to consumers, because they cannot decide. They are so deceived that consumers have no possibility at all. Then we need food safety. We have already discussed that food sovereignty is far from given. We know that, that's why I can put this picture here. [[The speaker presents a panel on the speaker's desk, on which a truck load area covered with cover plans is shown in a nightly environment.]] I think that's all that says. If beef comes so to Austria, not in frozen condition or with the ship of Argentina and Brazil, then it comes alive, and during the night or the next day it becomes Austrian meat with the AT sign. There we no longer have food safety, the consumer has no guarantee, and that is not fair! We need fair trade – this has already been addressed a few times today – so we have to stop these abuses. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have much higher production standards, we want to maintain them. We do not want the cultivation of GMOs either. This is very important and has already been discussed today – in connection with tourism, with the cultural landscape, with the well-kept cultural landscape. It is about the return value, especially for our domestic population, not only for the tourists. Many of us do not appreciate what a quality of life it is if you are allowed to live in the countryside constantly. The main point is climate change and environmental protection. We're driving thousands of vehicles through the area. It is simply significant, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday Gottfried Kneifel welcomes your initiative, Minister, that you bring officials to the country that this is so useful. Gottfried Kneifel, the savior of the country, is the head of the Ennshafen in the original job – exactly the one who kills the rural area with its imports! The Ennshafen has delivered 240 000 containers last year – 240 000 containers! – and I don’t know how many containers there are after the processing “Taste of Homeland” or “Genussland Upper Austria”. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be prevented, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17677	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17780	The next item is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17801	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply briefly to a previous speaker, Mr Juryenschlager. We Social Democrats support more funding for rural areas. I think that would have been the correct message. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few words on the citizens’ initiative “Faire Food”: In short, I fully support this call, from an economic point of view, for the preservation of jobs, from the point of view of the environment and from the point of view of farmers. Whoever has to do with food, organic food, as I do, has a very special reference to this issue. Here you come with producers We are talking about this, and we are getting an idea of what a home country is behind this work, because agriculture is an anchor for jobs on the ground. Agriculture means to me: hard work paired with high responsibility. I know many, many businesses in my region, who deal responsibly with their fields and, above all, with their products that they produce. As a Salzburger, I am very proud of it – and I say this very often from this point of view – that we have the highest density of organic farmers in Salzburg, producing fair food at fair prices. I'm very, very proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In which case: It is a lot to me that these fair foods can afford themselves not only to the server servants and ministers, but to all levels of the population. At all events, we need to get away from factory thinking, to support the smaller farms, especially those who are direct marketers. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Small businesses are not a symbol of social romance, but they stick to the boundaries – those boundaries that often indicate nature. The annual Green Report of the Ministry of Agriculture shows how this small court is ordered – and it does not look very good. That makes me very affected, honestly. In the interests of this citizens' initiative, I would like to continue to play the ball to the Ministry of Agriculture. I would also like a long-term plan to be drawn up to put agriculture in Austria on new feet – and indeed, Mr Schellhorn, for me tourism is part of it, and also that agriculture is simply rethinked that the farmer and the farmer are the measure of all things and not the hectares. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17867	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e17889	Madam President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank two Members of the Socialists: first of all, Mrs Ecker for this clarification; I would also like to say this to Mr Klubobmann Schieder. [[Call the SPÖ: He's here!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You must tell the Lord jewelry beater!]] I think that was an important clarification, because when we talk about the EU's public funds – common agricultural policy – and the national funds we spend on agriculture, we speak of less than 0.3 percent of EU Member States' aggregated gross domestic product, at least 0.3 percent for at least 2 percent – even a little more – of the population. If you look at rural areas as a whole, it is more than 50 percent of the population in the EU Member States. On the back of the farmers a cheap polemic about budget expenditure is simply a disregard for the services of farmers, the services provided in rural areas for our viable Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to thank Mr Vogl for his impressive presentation, which is not to add anything, and also for the impressive presentation of the differences between red and blue. That was impressive and, as I believe, it was completely correct and is therefore to be underlined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] You also mentioned the blue-yellow label. This is indeed a very valuable one. In Austria we have a “guaranteed traditional specialty”, the hay milk, and this is a real success product. I am also convinced, however, that the Lower Austrian Members of our group have been very pleased with this blue-yellow elucidation, because that is also the right thing to do. Ladies and gentlemen, on the two Committee reports on Mr Steinbichler's and Mr Jannach's requests, which we have discussed in great detail in the Committee: What's that about? – It is a question of misrepresenting the AMA seal. This is the intention of these two applications and also of the debates in the committees on this seal of quality. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Hauser: That's not true!]] The AMA seal – we know from a variety of consumer surveys – is the best quality seal we have in Austria for food and agriculture. [[Abg. Steinbichler: The most expensive!]] Mr Steinbichler, you know for yourself that this is financed by contributions from producers. These are not public funds that are used there, but that is applied by farmers. [[Further calls of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You have to make this clear. The AMA seal is the best quality seal we have, and we don't let that go bad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler:... Chat base!]] - Please? - Yes, thank you. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... Chat base!]] The AMA seal is the most reliable. This is what consumers know, and we will therefore continue to develop and support it. In the end, all the proposals you have put forward are based on the fact that this recognised seal has been misinterpreted by the successful differentiation over 20 years, especially towards organic, towards genetic engineering freedom, which has enabled our farmers to achieve an added value on the market. That is exactly the right way, and in this direction the efforts of the Austrian Federal Government, which are now also determined in the framework of the Labour Convention, are also going to apply the best bidder principle in terms of public procurement by means of a novel to the Federal Procurement Act for all foodstuffs, as opposed to the low-cost bidder principle. I am very glad that we succeeded together. The relevant innovation of the Federal Chancellor's Office is already under review, and I think that is the right way, especially in public procurement. For this principle, the wine industry – and I would like to thank Mr Klinger very much; that was right what he said – was really a pioneer, that was a real lighthouse project that showed how to make product differentiation and the principle: Origin is the future!, a real commitment to regional origin can be ensured. That is why it is so important to support all public initiatives on the designation of origin accordingly. In this context, I would particularly like to draw attention to our joint project with Federal Minister Doskozil: Our Lord eats regionally. We have set ourselves in a joint initiative, despite the already very high level of designation of regional specialties – we are committed to 72 percent in public procurement for the German army – in order to exceed the 90 percent mark. This is a joint project by Federal Minister Doskozil and me, it was presented recently, and I am convinced that this year we will continue to do so. Further initiatives will follow. Let me conclude by commenting on the third point that we are now discussing, namely the Citizens' Initiative on "Faire Food". I can only fully support this initiative – and I have said it clearly in the Committee. This fundamental objective, which has been expressed by the majority of the Committee, is positive and is fully implemented by us in all areas. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18028	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18049	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! You have unlimited speaking time. I only have 3 minutes, so I have to compress my statements very much. Thank you for the compliment: The Wine Law has made our Minister Harald Ofner timely – a free-standing top politician, great! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All three points that we are now discussing – protected geographical indication, AMA seal and fair prices for fair food – have one thing in common: Everyone wants the products to be presented fairly and clearly. They need product truth and the opportunity to market these products all the more effectively. Tourism would have to be the carrier rocket. We have mentioned it several times: Tourism is a chance! Mr. Minister, if you say that we want to misrepresent the AMA seal today and here, I must tell you: That's not true at all! This is too short a polemic. We want to improve the AMA seal, not bad. If consumers pursue this today's debate on television, I believe they will not recognize themselves. There are about 250 brands in the food sector and so on. Only if you have seen the plates here today – once blue seal, once red seal, once the label: protected geographical indication, once the marking: protected geographical origin, once AMA seal and so on and so on –: No one knows each other! It would be necessary to hold a regular seminar for consumers and say: So and so you buy right! Why don't we turn on the house mind? We need a few brands, but those we have must be clear, according to the motto: Austria must be inside where Austria stands. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] The consumer understands that, and then I don't need to train him. In our education policy, training is anyway a problem and an important topic: According to today's reporting, 50 percent of the graduates of folk schools are not even able to have enough German. So, unfortunately, we need to rely more on the mind of the house. I just wanted to say – a summary on our part –: First of all, we would like to thank the people of rural areas, especially our farmers, who produce excellent food in spite of massive income losses, high-quality foods that need to be marketed much better in the cooperation of agriculture – tourism – gastronomy. We finally have to stop the inconspicuous variety of brands. We need clear product descriptions. Mr Minister, although there is a farmer's association, many laws have been passed against the peasantry that we have rejected as a Freedom Party. I would point out that we were against the abolition of the milk quota; now we have the most miserable prices in the milk market. We were and are still opposed to the Russian sanctions, which have led to massive cuts in meat exports. [[Abg. Eßl:... Putin!]] We were opposed to increasing social security contributions for our farmers by 1. January 2017. [[Abg. Sieber:... Fixation!]] And above all, we are in favour of a fair distribution of agricultural funding towards small and medium-sized enterprises and not for large corporations, such as the Prince Liechtenstein Foundation, which receives € 1 million and more in annual funding.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18120	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18142	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Application 1393/A(E) calls for an amendment to the AMA Quality Seal Directive for Working and Processing Products as regards the permitted tolerance limits in Austrian products. To this end, I would like to say clearly, even if something else should be suggested by you here, that the AMA marketing has always been used for a transparent and comprehensible declaration of origin. It is not for nothing that consumer confidence in the AMA seal and its level of awareness are unattainable. On the one hand, we distinguish the AMA bio-label with a transparent and comprehensible designation of origin in the ingredients list within the meaning of consumers. In the case of so-called mono products such as meat, milk, fruit or even vegetables bearing the AMA seal, you can rely 100 percent on the fact that you buy exclusively Austrian quality. In the case of processing products such as sausages or fruit yogurt containing flavor-giving ingredients that are not available in appropriate quality and quantity in Austria, these can be added up to a share of 33 percent without proof of origin. As an example, I mention the addition of pineapple to fruit yogurt. Everyone here will understand that this addition cannot be Austrian origin. A requirement of 100 percent and 90 percent of raw material from Austria, as required in your application, would exclude a lot of products from the AMA quality seal program. This could make Austrian products much easier to suppress by foreign products. Nevertheless, the AMA marketing bodies are intensively considering proposals for solutions for an even more transparent declaration and rules of origin. However, since at European level there is currently an intensive debate on a legal system for the declaration of origin, the results of these discussions are waiting to save businesses unnecessary costs for packaging sales. The AMA seal rightly enjoys the highest confidence among consumers. Our effort is to further develop the perceptibility and reliability of these seal of goodness.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18179	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18200	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I refer to Agenda item 11, Citizens' Initiative on FAIR LABENSMITTEL. This is not just an association, it is also the citizens' initiative that has been introduced in Parliament and which we have debated in the Committee on Agriculture. According to the current situation, this initiative has already supported 20 000 citizens. A clear designation of origin for food is required, and there are also strong arguments for this. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! Good arguments!]] For example, a study by the Kepler University of Linz speaks of 10,000 additional jobs if only 10 percent more regional products would be purchased. GDP would grow by over €1 billion. However, the higher consumption of regional products also brings many other benefits. In contrast to many other countries, Austria has a very high legal standard of food products. This concerns both the safety and the cleanliness and health of the products. There are many seal of goodness – that has been discussed before – but the wild growth is unmistakable. However, 86 percent of consumers want to know what they have on the plate, and in this sense also make their purchase decision. In particular, the Citizens' Initiative calls for mandatory designations of origin on food cards and processed products. It is intended to mark the origin of the main ingredients of a dish on the menu of restaurants and canteens. Furthermore, the origin of the main ingredients of a widespread product is to be mandatoryly stated on the packaging. A prominent cook once said: “It’s good if the money stays in the region and doesn’t go over the highway.” – I’m right with this statement. Our objective must be to support local farmers and farmers in such a way that the quality of our regional products is more of a priority, because the economy, the environment and consumers – all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18237	Mr Jannach, you are the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18258	Madam President. Federal Minister! Very briefly – there has already been a lot of talk about this label – once again to clarify – this is just a plausible example, so you have to bring it again and again –: It's about the sticky example of Handle Tyrol. The company is excellent, creating many jobs – this is undisputed by all of us. What we criticize is that there is a legal fraud of consumers, because of the protected geographical indication. Mr Vogl has already explained this. ‘Protected geographical indication’ suggests to the consumer that the product comes from Tyrol. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: The product is also from Tyrol!]] That's normal. [[The speaker keeps the picture of a package of Tyrolean bacon by the company Handl up to date.]] Anyone you show this will say: This is Tyrolean bacon, quite clearly Tyrolean bacon. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – You are welcome to speak, Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Everyone will say: Tyrolean bacon, he's coming here! – But he doesn’t come there! Each of us knows that the basic product of the bacon does not come from Tyrol because Tyrol has no relevant bacon production. Nevertheless, there is “protected geographical indication” on it. The consumer is deceived. The second problem of deception: There's also the AMA seal on it. The AMA seal – mentioned earlier – is: The pork comes from Austria. What is on the back of the pack of Tyrolean carree bacon? – On the back side is: Pigmeat – not that it is from Austria. On the homepage of Handl Tyrol stands, they bring pork from Germany and also from Denmark. You will not find on any of Handl Tyrol's products the marking that this meat comes from Denmark or Germany. This is where we have the fundamental problem, and I would like to make this clear to consumers: In 2013, we imported almost 190 million kilograms of pigmeat to Austria, mostly from all the countries from Germany, but we import pork from Cyprus, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Israel, New Zealand, Seychelles, South Africa, the USA, Bangladesh, Korea, Mauritius, Japan, Uruguay, Ecuador, Canada, and even Lebanon. If a consumer goes to a supermarket and simply buys, he will not find a single product under these 188 million kilograms imported from Austria, on which this pig meat is correctly declared and marked. This is the consumer deception that takes place legally in Austria. And now, finally, to the AMA seal – you have to mention that too –: The consumer believes: Austrian product. [[The speaker holds an image of the AMA seal in height.]] What does that mean? – First, not free of genetic engineering. The AMA seal is not called free from genetic engineering. It is permitted that genetic engineering products, primarily soy, are processed normally in the products marked with the AMA seal. So that doesn't mean genetic engineering. Nor do we want this third regulation regarding processed meat – this is what our request refers to. In the case of sausages, a third can be processed under the cover of the AMA seal from non-Austria if the ingredient is not available in Austria. [[Abg. Straster: That's not true at all! That's a misinformation!]] [[Abg. Höfinger: That was a question!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If it's not true, why change You don't have the guidelines then? The consumers should know – I am not speaking for you now, you do not want to have anything true, but I am speaking for those who are watching our broadcast on television: That does not mean purely Austrian, that is, not geneticly free. [[Keeping the AMA seal in height]] The product must not be free of genetic engineering because it can be up to a third of foreign origin. That's what we want to have changed. But you don't want this, you still want to deceive the consumers by law!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18375	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18396	Madam President. Minister! Mr President, you are already in the start! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are negotiating Top 11, the Citizens' Initiative on "FAIRE LIFESMITTEL". What's that call for? – The clear designation of origin on the food! This is a quite correct approach, and I believe that no one can oppose it either. 10 per cent more regional products – and I think Mrs Mühlberghuber has mentioned this – will secure more than 10 000 jobs, and I believe that this would be very important for rural areas. Food safety has become a matter of course for us. But that's not the way it is everywhere. Austria has a very high legal standard of production in food, and this is good. However, Austria must also allow the import of poor quality foods, as long as they comply with EU criteria, and this is a bad development! What is forbidden in Austria and the EU is an international standard in meat production. Cattle, pigs, poultry are made more quickly by using hormones. This too is a development that I strongly reject. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and this has already been mentioned several times, it is so important that we support local agriculture that we are proud of our farmers, who work with a lot of effort day after day for our country, for our food safety. I believe that we must thank them and not criticize them. I say a great thank you to the local agriculture! [[Congratulations with representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] The rural area, Mr Minister, Mr Auer, because I am seeing you, has been mentioned many times today. I believe it is important for the future that we strengthen rural areas, in every respect, so that migration is stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18450	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1555 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1556 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1557 of the supplements. Who is expressing his support for this note? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on 'Faire Food'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:44:36]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economic Affairs on EU-projects Annual report 2017, Management Division Economics (III-349/1526, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18545	So we reach the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Mahrer, Secretary of State. First of all, Mr Themessl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18575	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This EU project report is actually about the same thing that we have already discussed in connection with the agricultural report and the environmental report. This report does not contain much new, that is, it is a continuation of the last year's report. Also, the relationship with Austria has not essentially changed in some things, and that is, the attractiveness of our economic location continues to suffer. This is primarily due to the high tax and tax burden, which remains very blatant, but also, of course, to the lack of skilled workers, to the lack of skilled workers, to which I am still talking, of course, also to the wage-specific loads, to the resulting investment kindness and, of course, to the still existing bureaucratic conditions and obstacles. Let's just stick to the bureaucracy. Examples: The craftsman bonus is a good idea on and on, but what you have made of it is a red tape sample; it is similar in the registers; and the now expected employment programme, i.e. the planned additional wage support for additional employees, will also develop into a red tape sample. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to speak to the missing professionals. This report notes that countries that rely on dual training have lower youth unemployment. This is true in so far as it is not a question, it can also be understood, but in Austria youth unemployment is not very low either. But it is interesting that some things have gone wrong in apprenticeship training in recent years, and this leads to a shortage of skilled workers. In other words, in recent years we have increasingly put on non-company dual training, we have promoted things that cost a lot of money. In this context, I only remember the ÜLA: Output – almost none, average stay – eight months. Now we have the situation that this problem will no longer be solved by 2020 due to this missing apprenticeship policy, but not only because there are no more so-called birthrates, but also because of the fact that dual training has no longer been promoted in the way it should have been promoted. That is to say, it is now 28 000 who are beginning their first year of teaching, and this minus – I have already mentioned – is due not only to demographic development, but above all to the fact that in recent years you have always forgotten to include the economy in your programmes. That's a serious mistake. I hope that you can change this so that we may have better conditions from 2020 onwards. I must also say one thing to you, Mr State Secretary: The Russian sanctions are mentioned again. As can be read in the “standard” today, Russia’s sanctions in Austria cost €550 million in 2015. In the EU there are 400 000 jobs lost, and the damage in 2015 was €16.7 billion, and in 2016 it looked similar. Both the Minister for Economic Affairs and other members of the Federal Government have always told us in the committees that they will be committed to the abolition or expiry of Russian sanctions. Last year before Christmas, they voted in favour of extending EU sanctions against Russia. I am excited how you intend to react this summer when the majority of the European Member States, above all Germany, are calling for further continuation of these Russian sanctions. They are therefore responsible for the fact that not only the agricultural sector, but the economy as a whole in Austria suffers enormously and we continue to lose thousands of jobs and will not gain them.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18626	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18648	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The European Union's economic work programme 2017 represents more growth and more employment. And if you look more closely at Austria now, you can say that we have a forecast growth of 2 percent. I think that shows in the right direction. The measures put forward by the Federal Government in recent times are also moving towards investment and growth, so we are on the right path. If we look at this more precisely now, then it is to be said that the EU has set two priorities that I would like to deal with now. One is investment in the economy, the other is the promotion of youth employment. There is, of course, a larger package when it comes to investment in the economy. The European Fund for Strategic Investments, in short EFSI, was established in 2015 and raised a total of € 315 billion in public and private investment in the private sector. I think this is very important, and we also benefit from it in Austria. The Austrian Federal Government has added two more packages, namely, the increase in the investment premium, with €175 million distributed over the next two years, and on the other hand, the municipal investment programme – the directives were announced yesterday – for additional €176 million for the municipalities. [[Abg. Kogler: This is an EU project report!]] It is particularly important in the communities that investment is made, which will also benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, the European Union should also focus on helping small and medium-sized enterprises. The small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria employ two thirds of the total workforce and make up 80 percent of the apprentices. It is therefore also very important that we focus on youth employment. In every second area I am referring to, the promotion of youth employment and thus the fight against youth unemployment are also involved. In Austria there is still a relatively good youth employment, also thanks to our dual training. Of course, dual training is highly linked to qualification and quality, and therefore it is also necessary that we have qualified establishments that we also have qualified businesses. It is therefore very important that we also receive certain points in the trade order, which are very important, which contribute to this qualification and to this quality. Regulation-making, training and training are very important because young people are thus given the opportunity to have a safe job in the future. All in all, I think you can say – you can always see something negative, I try to see the positive – first and foremost, our entrepreneurs do something very special about employment and, above all, the training of young people, and for that we cannot say thank you often enough, and secondly, I think, the Austrian Federal Government is also taking steps to promote investment and to encourage investment, because only when we invest can we create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18684	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18706	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The Green Group has indeed led to the discussion of these almost project reports on the economic side of the EU and the comments of the Austrian Federal Government. I would now like to comment briefly on four points: the investment question already raised, the trade agreements, the economic relations with Russia and those with Turkey, which have been specifically mentioned in detail. We experience – Bruno Rossmann will always confirm this – regularly in the specialist committees that this so-called Juncker plan does not bring what is originally claimed. Why not, do we not wonder: because they are just so designed. There you already need a firm faith with a shot of voodoo-economics, that you achieve such leverage effects as described in it. And it is not a question of whether we are promoting or not so many projects in Austria, but it is simply a question of not acting privately/publicly twice as efficiently as possible in these mixing systems. We know this from the private-public partnership projects with us that this is not always the most skilled. First of all, public investment should be given priority, including in the Union. In many successful projects, especially in southern Europe, work did not go out at all. There we see the tragic situation with 25 per cent unemployment, of which 50 per cent is youth unemployment. You have to do this differently than call each other, that's going to be something. And if it's nothing, we'll double it! – Because this is the result of this junker exercise. Be quiet! The Federal Government has announced at least in the performance of the CETA-debakel – and I will leave it now, we will have to consult it here in the House anyway; hopefully soon, here with it so that we can reject it; Arbitration courts, as the Federal Minister has recommended to us, may we reject that, he has fought, so here with it! – that the SPÖ can reject the arbitration courts. It was promised, however, that TTIP would be exposed and re-arranged. Now one can say that Trump may be gone soon, but Mrs Malmström claims that it will continue to be crafted. Where are the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor now when it comes to re-appointing this mandate? - Nothing happens! We read all the protocols that come into the house: Nothing exactly happened! Read everything that the Federal Chancellor has said on the occasion of the glorious or at least so claimed successes on CETA's conclusion! It's worse with TiSA. My colleague, Mr Lichtenecker, will go into what is going on there. You should take a look at it all in peace! And where is the Austrian Federal Government? - Nowhere! It is even worse with the Japan Agreement, which is mentioned here in the report in the context. The tragedy is not Japan or the exchange with Japan, I would not claim, but it is not about the Union against Japan and vice versa, but about larger corporations against smaller businesses, et cetera, and the weight shifts are like this again: There are the regulatory cooperations that pose a certain danger to sovereignty, including for you Members, there are the arbitration systems in the old form – we will see what is going to happen – but in reality, the House does not even have the mandate. Now I come to the question of transparency, because it has been held to the highest level, that is what everyone must understand. One may be in the commercial policy of this or that opinion, that is not all a single truth, I give you the right, but how does it look? Try it, try to find the mandate for Japan here in the house! Try it, it is obvious that nobody has tried to do it yet! This cannot be done at all, especially after the announcements of the Federal Government. The European Commission has not yet published it. Do they actually learn nothing? – Even as a proponent of such contracts, it would have to be different for a long time. This is what the report says, and I hope it will go a little further soon. Yeah, but what? Where are you rowing around? – Maybe in the wrong direction! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To Russia. – Should we as the European Union now deal militaryly with Russia? You may say, USA, NATO have made many mistakes, you are running into me immediately open doors, I see that so, but in the European field, since World War II, it has rarely been the case – the Balkan tragedy once left out – that more or less illegal parts have been annexed to whole parts under international law. The tragedy goes from Crimea to the eastern Ukraine. If President Putin judges us when the minions in the Russian army are caught there with the emblems, if Mr President, the Almighty – I do not know exactly what's going on there – directs us, they are on vacation, then should all this be done? – The reaction in Austria, in the Chamber of Commerce, is such that he is rolled out of the red carpet. We know where the wind blows, and I say, No, thank you, hang your morals wherever you want, but don't light us up anymore! Everyone has to mention an alternative if he wants to break up the sanctions unit with the Union. But not even Trump wants it anymore. I would be a little more careful, or I would offer a political instrument that would cause something, because it is not true that sanctions do not do anything. But so to say, against the background of the Austrian economic interests from ÖVP to SPÖ, from right to left, that's not just too little, that's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18773	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18794	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I didn't want to say anything about the Russian sanctions in itself, but, Werner Kogler, of course you're provoking. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, we have a dispute!]] - No! In this discussion, Austria should strive to deal with things with a little bit of subjectivity. [[Abg. Kogler: Tell something from the Russian friendship group!]] It was not true that the development in Ukraine would have taken place completely apart from the European Union, and an association agreement, which includes military cooperation, may also be part of it. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, I say yes!]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: But the Crimea already!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] A elected president is put away there almost overnight, although there has previously been an agreement for a peaceful solution. Someone announces that the snipers who shot the Maidan demonstrators are being persecuted; no one has been found since the day of the takeover of power. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! Yes!]] – As a western country, one should approach things a little more neutral. That's why I'm saying: On this question we should carefully consider – we have all moral rights on the part of the Sanctioners – and therefore we should consider things with great care. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! But that is why Russia cannot act as a occupying force!]] I am grateful if the Federal Government... [[Abg. Kogler: I agree! For the Minutes!]] The second key question is: One of the main projects that we have been presented today, something I think is good insofar as it does not correspond to the EU's normal, dominant mainstream policy, concerns the importance of investments to grow out of the crisis. It is much better beyond the Atlantic than in Europe. If there is a crisis there, even the most conservative of the conservatives say that the state with more demand must ensure that the crisis is overcome. With us in Europe, Schäubles reigns of all kinds, which are at the forefront of what the public deficit looks like. They actually sharpen it: If you are running a savings course at a time when the economy is in a sluggish, you are doing the same mistake that a car driver makes that fully rises to the brake at Glatteis until it is blocked. I recommend ABS in such a case, that is investment. Should they be called Juncker Plan, European Fund for Strategic Investments or whatever – this is a good measure to stimulate investment. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Austria, the Austrian Federal Government, has always taken a better course. You can also see this in the current budget for 2017: We have €5 billion in public investment for the first time, and they work. We have 2 per cent growth this year, and we hope that we will also have no increase in the forecast, perhaps even a slight decline in unemployment. It works and is good. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Let's see, I'm excited!]] A supplement to colleagues Themessl on the question of apprentices: Yes, it is a demographic question, yes, it is the question which companies feel capable of doing so under the rules, but we have put in place many measures. Those of you damn over-operators, many of whom change after a year, are a good measure. We have decided on an integration year; that is, we see that we make the young people who have now come with the wave of migration apprentices. These are the professionals of tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] [[Abg. Checkout: Swimming with the wave of migration!]] I invite the FPÖ instead of always using the young people who have come as migrants and as asylum seekers to help them become integrated. I think they're gonna be excellent installers, metal professionals, hairdressers and all that. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We'll see you after the next election, Mr. Matznetter!]] In 20 years their children will no longer remember that their parents once fled Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan. I just hope that in the second and third generation these are not, like so many migrant children, perhaps even xenophobic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Perhaps you recognize the value of accepting people other than humans. This was particularly written in your main book, Mr. Cot. [[in the direction of the Abg. Kassinger]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e18987	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19008	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Matznetter, one thing I can add to the discussion on refugees: You will not dispute that we have more than 80 percent of our business and climate refugees, and that in principle we make a contribution daily with our predatory capitalist-oriented group economy, which is simply in the room. We must not see everything on a flat-rate basis, and I would point out that this Christmas I had a very touching contact with refugees from the post-war period who worked in my neighboring country for two and a half years. This must not be compared, there are fundamental differences. I don't think everything that's limping is a comparison. The criticism of this novel, that it is very industry-oriented, is justified: only Industry 4.0, 4.0., 4.0! I have already mentioned today that we must not forget the many small, medium and individual enterprises that are actually the bearing pillar. With 70 percent of employees, these form a huge foundation for the regional economy. We have already talked about the distribution, and it should be noted in particular that although we are always talking about the need for action in the start-ups, we must also look at the fact that we are protecting the existing businesses from emigration and from mergers. Those who have read the "Konzernatlas 2017" know what is going on. We get a concentration on the market, and at these concentrations, the workers are always the ones who pay for it. These mergers are being phased down – with social plans being reduced, but jobs are reduced – and I believe that this contributes significantly to the social problems and to unemployment statistics. Who of us would have thought the Opel brand would be swallowed sometime? I should like to remind you of the Energy Union, which is an issue: We're not credible here. The term of nuclear power plants will be extended and nuclear power plants will be expanded, but they do not have an insurance obligation. We must finally demand liability insurance here, both for the operation and for the final storage, in order to ensure the equality of energy. I think that these are essential points which are missing, and I should like to thank all entrepreneurs once again for their high-quality performance, but especially all employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19045	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19067	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! I really appreciate colleagues Kogler, it is also great to discuss with him again and again, but it is noticed that pre-election campaign is. They are squirting and are even now getting involved in a new threat scenario, the Japanese trade agreement. [[Abg. Kogler: I didn't say that!]] I think Doopen was never good, at the end of the day it never paid off. I'll tell you: They have ruled out agriculture anyway, it does not concern it anyway, so you will fall away from the cooperation partners, the trade chains, and as a result also the advertisements. They will stand there on their own because Europe needs it. We confess ourselves to trade, we confess to fair trade, and I do not think that this is acceptable to this. [[Abg. Lightenecker: We too!]] We have already seen on the website of public-law broadcasting the threat of a trade agreement with Japan. - That's all nonsens! All that is being spread there is really nonsensical! I find it disgraceful if you still want to jump up on this train and react to it. There is a Japanese philosophy of life and work that is called Kaizen, which means improving and changing. I think that a trade agreement is also of particular importance for the Austrian economy – that is what we know – if the rules are determined accordingly. That is why we should also encourage the Secretary of State, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Presidents to do so in the best possible way and not lead to confusion. CETA will soon be over, TTIP will be put on again. You are missing a threat scenario, which is why you need something new, because in your opinion the trade is basically something bad. Going there, I think, one should change and make a strong contribution, make a positive contribution to bring about a change, and not just criticize anything. [[Abg. Lightenecker: (in the direction of ÖVP) You should merge!]] Why this EU-Japan Agreement is so important, I would like to explain a few figures: Japan is the EU's sixth largest trading partner and the EU is third in Japan. This is important, and this should also be driven forward accordingly. Thus, from 2017 to 2018, world trade is expected to grow by 3.3 percent and 3.5 percent respectively. That's important, we need growth. Let's talk about safe jobs like Mr Haubner – because he's just coming back in here – like safe jobs: What do we need, above all, in the European context? – We need free trade, which is positively occupied, which is guaranteed. We need free movement of persons in the European context. You need to talk to those over there again, because that's particularly important. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] The SPÖ is also thinking of decommissioning. Accordingly, the economic programme in the European context should at last be a debureaucratisation and a discharge for businesses. That's what you should work on. They have been in the government for 30 years and should intervene with their competence in the European context, in Brussels. However, the opposite is true because each one of you in pure populism in Brussels shudders and says they are to blame: We would like – and I do this now from the government again and again – to, we would like to, but the SPÖ is guilty; the SPÖ says we would like to, but the ÖVP is guilty; and each of us says we would like to, but Brussels is guilty. That's nonsens, that doesn't bring us any further. We should relieve businesses so that they can rise in freedom on a liberal market that is open to world trade. That should be the aim of this government, that should be the goal of this plenary session.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19148	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19169	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! I am looking for Mr Matznetter. I think he stole himself out of the plenary session – not without reason, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haubner: He's already gone!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Mr Matznetter from Social Democracy has previously left the cat out of the bag. He spoke of a wave of migration, which has taken place over the last two years. That's very interesting: On the one hand, there should be refugees of war, people fleeing from terrorism and persecution, and now, at once, Mr. Matznetter talks about social democracy – as everyone may really listen to it – of a wave of migration. He left the cat out of the bag. He has said that these migrants are being re-established – and I repeat: Wave of migration! – to integrate the economy as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Kogler: You notice that you are repeating yourself!]] It's nice to quote media, too. A few months ago, a test was carried out by the labour market service, where 100 Afghans – according to SPÖ – were tested. It has come to the conclusion that of the 100 Afghans, three had a compulsory school degree, whatever that means in Afghanistan. I don't want to know. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] 97, the rest – and I quote the “Kronen Zeitung” – were tea dealers, carpeters and goat herds. These are honorable professions for this region, but I dare to doubt – there you can ask your workers and employees outside – whether these are the great professionals who are bringing our economy forward. That's completely absurd. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Now on the report of the Ministry of Economic Affairs concerning EU-projects Annual forecast 2017, Management Division Economics. There are, of course, some interesting overall strategy steps being taken, we do not want to point this out by ourselves. The European Union wants to invest more in the field of the economy, stimulate structural reforms and also ensure – I do not know how they want to do so – that public finances develop more positively. Returning to our Republic of Austria – right there we have the big problems – I take out a few excerpts from expert studies: We have too low a reform rate, the level of social security contributions, the tax rate, the tax rate is too high, we have a shortage of skilled workers – Mr Matznetter and Social Democracy want to stop these holes with migrants from all over the world; this is a very interesting access – a too high and too massive bureaucracy and also a too big regulatory will. These are the problems we face in Austria. A small example is the round-the-clock doctor in the trade order. Bundeskanzler Kern always dances in the middle of some pods, with the microphone in hand, from Plan A, Plan B, Plan C and from the 27. Government clauring, and has also spoken of a new trade order. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Be a little serious so you can listen!]] – Mrs Colleague, you know exactly what that means. The government does not even make it possible to centralize or return the free trade to a commercial license. Unfortunately, the government fails at all levels. That's too much, and that was just an example of regulatory and bureaucracy. As Mrs Colleague of the ÖVP or the Secretary of State may still be speaking and replying to us, when it is finally so far that the trade regulations are being implemented again. A few short words on the Russian sanctions – my colleague Bernhard Themessl has already spoken about it: The Russian sanctions cost Austria € 550 million. Mr Matznetter comes here and gives a surprising start to the Ukraine crisis, to which he has given some real things of himself – that has been quite interesting, I even have to praise my colleague Matznetter, but this is a very late insight – which has just led to the EU sanctions against Russia. [[Abg. Kogler: He replicated on me!]] On the other hand, I wonder why German Chancellor Kern will then extend EU sanctions in a round-up decision at the beginning of 2017. So, where's the line? – It is not a line recognizable! The Russian sanctions cost us millions of euros, they speak of 7 000 to 10 000 jobs. We believe that these Russian sanctions should be the fastest in the past in the sense of our economy and in the sense of further development of our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19270	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19291	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to welcome the SPÖ community organisation from the granite town of Schrems in the Waldviertel very warmly here, also by my colleague Konrad Antoni! The fact is that Austria's economy has benefited greatly from EU accession. [[General condolences.]] Our exports grew by an incredible 124 percent at this time. So membership of the European Union is quite a success for our economy in many, many areas, and I would like to acknowledge that we still call things by name, and I say clearly: The EU is in crisis. The Commission is publicly wondering where the Union should develop, also because the political processes – such as the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union, but above all the nationalist currents in different Member States – require a rethinking. The problems in many areas are home-made. While the banks were saved – these are those banks that, according to the latest reports, relocate their profits to tax havens – unfortunately, many families, many fathers, mothers and children have lost their homes. We Socialists also see it as a great danger to the Union and, above all, to our democracy. I believe it is of the utmost importance that the European Union has recognised this and has to put initiatives in this direction, yes, necessarily. While the EU is excluding, celebrating the interrail tickets for young people – yes, celebrating! – large tax refugees like McDonalds, Apple and Amazon to name just a few. They don't cheat on Fiscus, no, they cheat on us while the socially weak are being oppressed. Here in Austria, too, multimillionaires and billionaires bring their money into the dry. Let us ask for the greatest right that youth must possess, that is hope! The EU has set itself the goal of finding a job for all young people under 25 within four months. I think that's a very nice thing. I believe that this is the absolute minimum set by the EU in order to keep itself above water. We people, we are all the European Union, not the multinational corporations. 1 000 billion € – I would like to make this figure work once again: 1 000 billion € – that is the amount that is lost every year within the Union through tax relief. I think that's where we have to put the lever. Austria will take over the EU Presidency in autumn 2018 instead of the United Kingdom. Perhaps we should play our trump with the word youth – Peter Haubner has already said it – and also bring our trumps closer to the European partners: This is the teaching, which is the dual training system that has kept our youth unemployment relatively low. This is also the reason for our having only 10.5% youth unemployment in Austria. This is not a number that would be a cause for celebration, it is still far too high, but in the whole European Union youth unemployment is 18.2 percent – but as has been said, the level of youth unemployment in Austria is no reason to celebrate. That is why we have also planned measures against youth unemployment in Plan A. We Socialists and Social Democrats are now the only force when it comes to social security, for all social classes, even for individuals and for small and medium-sized enterprises. Here at this point I demand – just as I have often demanded – and I will not let go of it either: Let us take care of self-retaining for entrepreneurs when visiting a doctor, because he is pointless and simply not targeting. [[Abg. Kogler: For everyone!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19353	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19374	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few weeks ago, the popular desire against TTIP, CETA and TiSA supported 562,000 Austrians. They have supported this out of deep conviction because they are worried: They are concerned that design rights and possibilities are restricted. They are concerned that consumer protection standards and food standards are reduced and that environmental protection rules are loosened, and they are concerned that workers' protection is affected. These concerns and fears must be taken very seriously. What the whole thing has fired is the fact that all this is always being negotiated behind locked doors. It is not only the citizens, but there are many thousand companies – and colleague tiny always speaks of the companies – who are very concerned when such trade and investment agreements, such as they are present or are under negotiation, enter into force. That's what I'm going to talk to TiSA. TiSA concerns services markets. This will open up national service markets. TiSA is concerned with areas such as transport and communication, but there are also estimates that there are also very sensitive areas such as water, education and health. What does that mean? – This means that liberalisations and privatisations have a massive impact on the quality of services, where there is a loss, and on security of supply, and this also leads to less investment in infrastructure. At the same time, however, prices for these services are increasing for citizens as well as for businesses. These negotiations are also taking place behind closed doors, and this must be deeply rejected. [[Congratulation with the greens and bravoruf des Abg. Kogler.]] At the end of last year, TiSA was due shortly before completion. Neither European Parliament nor national Members nor the people know this version of the text, and that is something which is absolutely detrimental to a fair trade relationship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Mr Schellhorn, of course we need good and fair trade relations, and that is why we need to make it so. We need trade relations, which are sustainable, even in environmental terms, and which, of course, are socially fair. That's why we're going to do it, and that's exactly what we want to do. Of course, it is also a useful division of work, the question is only: How do we shape that? – It is about strengthening the rights of workers, protecting the environment and social standards. Of course, all of this should be made global and not only related to Europe or Austria. Fair conditions in the global sense must be our goal. Mr Mahrer, take these proposals with you! The programmes for the EU Presidency in the second half of 2018 are now being prepared. It must be an essential objective to be involved, and it is important to safeguard the rights of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19442	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19463	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State Dr. Mahrer! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, increasing growth and employment will continue to be the focus of the EU strategy. That means in the clear text: The promotion of the competitiveness of the European industry, which is following SMEs, and the support of expansion efforts by SMEs are very important in this context. It is equally important to support business start-ups, especially for job creation. In order to achieve its employment goal, the EU continues to rely on investment. My colleague, Mr Haubner, has already mentioned the great commitment made by the European Investment Fund. In addition, €315 billion in spent funds has mobilised €116 billion in investment. This also creates incentives for investment and employment, which I am very happy about. This signal needs our entrepreneurs to take courage again so that the mood in the economy is brightened. An important issue in the European Union is also employment. Thank God we have our dual training, which makes us the leader in youth employment, because it can hardly happen to a society worse than unqualified unemployed young people. These have potential to become lifelong social cases, but they are also more vulnerable to negative energy. That is why it makes sense that both Austria and the Austrian economy are committed to educational projects in the European Union. Apart from that, we cannot get enough skilled professionals in the economy. I therefore also welcome the EU Erasmus+ programme, which also promotes the mobility of apprentices. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's right!]] For the export country of Austria, not only is the deepening of the internal market important, but also the European Commission's commitment that international trade is essential for growth and employment, as with every additional export billion, jobs are also increasing by 14 000. In Austria, each second job depends directly or indirectly on export. I am therefore very glad that CETA will soon come into the provisional application, because I am really convinced that the world will not go through it, but that everyone will realize that our future cooperation with Canada will certainly be very promising, very positive and very fair. [[Abg. Kogler: Here we agree!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: But she could be better!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Mr Kogler, I really welcome what you said in our debate with Mauro Petriccione, namely that you are very open to the agreement with Japan. I hope you remember that later. The Deputy EC Director-General Petriccione also said that investment protection has not been negotiated in the event of an entry. [[Abg. Kogler: The mandate has not even been disclosed!]] I forgot something, it's still very important: I can warmly welcome the friends of fellow Members Gabriel Obernostereraus Kärnten to our House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19549	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics on EU-Projects Annual Forecast 2017, the Business Administration Section. The focus is on EU economic policy in 2017 in terms of growth and employment. Growth and employment are also a priority for the European Union in 2017. That's what he says? – The Minister of Economic Affairs! That would be a very good approach if it were. However, in view of the current state of the EU, I doubt the implementation of these projects. Austria supports the EU's projects with regard to the European Fund for Strategic Investments offensive. Austria has so far benefited little from this fund. I already know, Secretary of State Dr. Mahrer, that this is not a purely funding pot, but a so-called financing instrument, which is not yet so well-known in Austria. That's what he says? – The Minister of Economic Affairs! It's a lot in the planning phase. Hopefully it will not only remain in planning, hopefully it will also be implemented, because it is to be feared, ladies and gentlemen, that the EU is too little effort in terms of investment activities in the EU area. Considering the obvious shortage of skilled workers and the high level of youth unemployment, one must say: It's high time to act before it's too late! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19609	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19631	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been a number of points in the project report today, in particular with regard to economic growth, and there has been an area in which growth is to take place particularly, namely the area outside the European Union. There have also been some discussions on possible trade agreements. I would like to expressly say – and we have always said this from our group: We are in favour of trade agreements, the only question is whether – and I very much hope so – all those involved in the debate on CETA and other transactions have learned something. To the many new agreements, which are in the pipeline and with which it is obviously very fast, it is said: It is a pity not to draw the right conclusions from the debate so far, especially as it does not know exactly what Mr Trump is going to do in America. We need free trade, we also need new trade agreements, but please do not make the same mistakes. When it comes to trade agreements, it is about trade and not about any other things that you want to get in there. In principle, I think it is very okay to rely on the export. The strength of the European Union is also the strength of more than 500 million consumers. It is therefore also a matter of promoting and enabling public investment. It is also about higher wages across Europe and hence the strengthening of internal demand, because this is, as we have seen in Austria after the tax reform, the absolute guarantee that growth is going up, and this ultimately also has a positive impact on employment. We have done a lot in the energy sector, and as an energy speaker, I would like to mention this here: a reliable, sustainable and sustainable energy supply based on efficient low-carbon energy technologies. We have entered into a commitment with ourselves, but – keyword: Paris agreements – also with the world community. From my point of view, the path could be a little more binding, in particular with regard to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Finally, let me say a few more thoughts about the European Union as a whole: In 1994, we decided to join the EU in a vote in Austria. The promises were then peace, prosperity and social security. I have the impression that many of these basic ideas have been lost. The European Union is now implementing a neoliberal deregulation programme, a competitive spiral down, and the reduction of social standards and an increase in poverty are the result. That's why it needs a clear goal, and that means to me: Social fundamental rights have priority over economic market freedoms. If, in the last days, one or the other has smiled at the union's commitment to a social Europe or made fun of it, then it may be that way, is all right, I can live with it very well, but I just want to say one thing: Whoever gives a rejection to a social Europe, it provokes the failure of the European idea! We want a social Europe and not a nightmare of a European night watchman state.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19674	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19695	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing in a society and for a country is It is a matter of peace and stability, and we will achieve stability when we give people work and employment. The worst thing for a society is unemployment. It is therefore one of the most important tasks of policy to ensure the framework conditions for sufficient employment. The EU's objective to promote growth and employment must therefore be a priority and can only be supported by Austria as much as possible. Austria is an open economy that is highly dependent on export and investment. We have heard the figures in this regard several times: 6 out of 10 euros will be earned in Austria by export. Therefore, the EU's trade and economic policy is particularly important for us in Austria. Trade means jobs, and in Austria every second job is directly or indirectly dependent on export. The export is a very important economic operator in us. Ladies and gentlemen! I also welcome the EU's strategy to focus on promoting European values – values that are reflected in a sustainability chapter in the Free Trade Agreements, which strengthen the respect for human rights and their effective monitoring, highlight the fight against corruption and responsible value chain management. Ladies and gentlemen! The recent economic forecasts are very encouraging and show us that the joint efforts of the Federal Government towards employment and investment are at the forefront of success. Finally, I would like to say: Only continuous, persistent and honest measures will bring us forward and form an environment that we need to create and maintain good jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19738	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19759	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Trade protection instruments are also addressed in this annual review on EU projects. I believe that this is important because such protective instruments are absolutely needed. I am thinking of the European steel industry, which is currently under massive pressure. We have to fight with enormous overcapacity from China. So Chinese steel is currently flooding Europe. If we know that there is a capacity of 1,600 million tonnes of steel worldwide and that 800 million tonnes are produced in China alone, we see that there is a huge imbalance. In the last three years, exports from China to Europe have doubled. This created a very difficult situation, which becomes clear to you when you know what difficult and often distorting conditions are produced in China. The environmental standards are disastrous there, and there is therefore a terrible air pollution. There are also catastrophic working conditions there, the ILO standards are not complied with. There is absolutely no competition, and there is therefore only one way for us Europeans to protect us by means of protective duties. This has, of course, direct national implications, including for Austria, for the Austrian steel industry. However, we do not necessarily have to do the same thing that the US does, namely, demand 260 or 280 percent protection duties. There is also an average: New Zealand with 130 percent, Argentina with 180 percent. As a result, the 25 percent duty on protection, which we demand at European level, is really very narrow. I think there should be an average – the 25 percent are clearly too few. It is therefore also very important that we have launched a citizens' initiative as a trade union PRO-GE and as a trade union GPA-djp. I would simply like to thank those 25 000 people who signed this citizens' initiative, which they share, for it is about jobs in the steel industry, and it is also about jobs throughout the metal industry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we know that since 2008, that is, since the crisis, only more than 85 000 jobs have been lost in the European steel industry, then we know that fire is on the roof, and then it is clear to us that there is a need to counter it. My request, Mr State Secretary – you have already been there during the negotiations and will probably be back there – is therefore: I would ask you to introduce a little more vehemently there, not just to wait for proposals from the others, but to really cut the table properly so that we can introduce fines that better safeguard the jobs of our employees in Austria than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19801	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19823	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests – especially from Carinthia, there are many guests today! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating the EU's economic project report, the programme period 2014 to 2020. I would like to address the issue of youth employment in my contribution to the debate, because it is one of my favorite topics. Austria – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – is actually very good in the European context, we have very low youth unemployment compared to other European countries. There are several reasons for this: On the one hand, this is our dual education system, but on the other hand it is certainly also our vocational secondary and higher schools – our school system is much better than it is sometimes presented – but the essential reason for this is, of course, demographic development. If I now prove my statements with numbers, I will concentrate on the region from which I come, that is the LEADER region of Eisenstraße in Lower Austria. We have made a very detailed demographic study there, with the result that we are going to have the skilled workers, but also the young people who are to get the economic location there. What conclusions do you have to draw from it? What can you do about it? – In reality, we are dealing with migration movements. I think we want to position our region so optimistically, so positively, in order to be a region of immigration, on the one hand, in Austria – no question at all; there may be regions that already have too much inflow, perhaps we create an internal Austrian compensation – but on the other hand, perhaps European; there are states with very high youth unemployment, I call Greece, Portugal, Spain. These migration movements are, of course, to be controlled. We need people who, for example, want to be metal skilled workers who bring the appropriate skills. I am convinced that with regard to the question of skilled workers, the European idea can also make a good contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19865	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19892	Mr State Secretary! Mr President! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has not only presented the position of our Federal Government regarding the annual report on the EU's projects orally in the Committee, but there is also a written document on this. Mr State Secretary, I would like to give you an example of the practice: Austrian assembly companies – whether small or large, whether in the East or in the West – often no longer come in on calls for orders, because they are underwent by foreign companies. They are companies from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, who, of course, are always trying to offer better offers on such orders. An essential reason for this situation, for such companies to receive these orders very often, is that while foreign companies have to comply with the respective collective contract applicable in Austria, taxes and charges, in particular social security contributions, must be paid in the respective country. So in clear text: Large order in Austria, a Hungarian company advertises, it also receives the order. The consequence of this is, of course, that Austrian companies are in turbulence that these companies – and unfortunately there are many examples – are at risk of job losses. Although the Hungarian company has the obligation to comply with the collective agreement in Austria and to pay accordingly, taxes and taxes, especially social security, are ultimately paid in Hungary, and this is a competitive disadvantage or a competitive advantage for this company, which is certainly not all right. Mr. State Secretary! It is interesting that especially in these countries, those assembly companies looking for the way out of Austria have quite obstacles and difficulties. I think that's unfair; there's no fair competition. It is also interesting that this problem would be very easy to solve, and I therefore ask you not only to become active in Austria, but above all at European level. The proposal would be: If these companies were to pay those taxes and charges in Austria, which also paid an Austrian company, then there would be a fair competition, there would be equal conditions. I think that would be the right approach. A second problem concerns the collective contractual conditions: These are not always respected. In Austria, there is an authority, specifically the labour inspectorate, who, in such infringements, is not only trying to achieve the right of fellow Members, but also ensuring that appropriate penalties are imposed. At this point, I would like to thank the labour inspectors very much for their commitment, for their work. They do great work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to say that it is not all right for the labour inspectorates to be dealt with in the public debate at the moment; it simply does not do so in every discussion, because they do not like to show the way they are doing in the examinations. I think they're doing an important, a good job. [[Mr Anger, Mr Haider and Mr Karlsböck.]] And typical: When we decided on a number of regulations, in particular on wage and social dumping, the liberals, who are always talking about control, were the only ones who voted against control against increased measures in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] I think the labour inspectorates stand for fair conditions and fair competition – a warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19950	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e19971	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Vice-President! Now I want to return to the European level, which is what we are talking about on this item on the agenda, and I am actually a little confused about it: It is about the issue of competitiveness in the area I would like to address in terms of industrial competitiveness, and there is a positive point in reporting good. According to a 2016 Institute for Competitiveness study, Austria is in the top line in terms of industrial competitiveness; we are in the first quarter, at 7th place, just behind the Netherlands, but just before Luxembourg. This is a fact which, of course, speaks for our industry, but also the framework conditions that domestic politics – this coalition says – have a positive effect, and that is, as I believe, worth a applause. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - Thank you. A megatheme that is addressed in every discussion is digitization. That was also at one of our last meetings, and the Minister said at that time that digitization cannot be closed. I would like to describe the following: That's like a wave in the sea, and either we learn to ride on this wave, or we'll be torn down. Digitalization is not a fashion phenomenon, but we have to deal with it seriously. Many initiatives have already been taken at government level, at parliamentary level, but it is also very important that these initiatives be linked to the actions of the European Union so that we can achieve the greatest possible benefit. It is very positive that the EU is striving to establish digital innovation hubs in all regions. Because this was also a topic: As a Member State of the European Union, we should also work to ensure that the EU is stronger and more self-confident. We have noticed in recent months: The U.S. – under quotations – is about global trade, fair conditions of competition relatively little, and Asian states are naturally looking at themselves. We, the European Union, have, I believe, every reason to act self-confidently within the framework of various programmes in order to carry out our initiatives, our demands with a broad heart. This is my appeal to the conclusion, and I say that we need not less Europe – in all the self-criticism that is necessary – but more Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20015	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20038	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda has provided an opportunity to present the concerns, problems and concerns of each political group and to describe the future prospects. I think today – the decision in England, the situation in the United States, China too – it is all the more important that a broad alliance of positive forces, together with the opposition in the United States, with many who are like our good will to strengthen the economy in peaceful, fair trade and to further develop the exchange of goods and the labour force in the common interest. I also think that in our country we can very well look at our strengths – many have already been mentioned –: the high quality of professional work, the high quality of the Austrian industry, but also the variety of small and medium-sized enterprises in the most diverse sectors and sectors, which are very innovative and with great personal use, and with the taxes they contribute to our country, for our system, for our democracy, for our democratic welfare. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important issue has been addressed several times: professional growth. The dual education system is a big plus, and also the plan A by German Chancellor Kern goes exactly in this direction to support youth, to strengthen foreign internships, to support language courses abroad. This is an important investment for the future, for young people, for our country, for our democracy, for a strong economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20075	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-349 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:52:45]] 14. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1370 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on scientific and technological cooperation (1505 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20119	As Agenda item 13 has been transferred to the agenda before receipt, we will immediately reach the 14th. Agenda item. I would draw attention to the fact that after four speakers there is another vote. First of all, Mr. Dr. Däderle, has been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20146	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This agreement, which has already been debated undisputedly in the Committee, is also generally supported here. It is one of 21 bilateral agreements that we have recently concluded, especially with countries from Eastern Europe. These agreements are mainly aimed at promoting mobility and contacts between the scientists of the respective countries, in other words, above all at providing mobility support. In this case, € 90 000 are available annually. Internationality and mobility are an essential feature of science and research, but they have grown significantly in recent years for a variety of reasons. One reason, of course, is that we are ever more active in teams and not more as individual fighters, and there are such bilateral agreements of benefit to both countries, where in this particular case we may be a particularly interesting and strong partner and, so to speak, can also provide development support in the field of science and technology. The fact that it concerns the Eastern and South-Eastern European regions in particular is very well suited to our history and also to our geographical situation and, of course, is also in line with our efforts to support these countries as best we can. I can therefore only strongly support this agreement and am pleased if as many scientists make use of it. The sums are not very high, as has been said, it is simply about giving impetus, because from this cooperation and from these cooperations, very interesting partnerships within the scientific community can develop, and these can lead to a much more promising action in larger applications, especially in the European funding landscape. So this is also a kind of start-up funding, which can then lead to a much larger volume of funding in the context of traditional funding opportunities, so I can only warmly support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20182	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20204	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, colleague, has already presented the content of the agreement in a comprehensive way. It is about taking over mobility costs, promoting research cooperation, promoting scientific exchange. Of course, such programmes and scientific exchange are particularly important in order to live up to European thoughts at this level – especially important for science, but also for the European project itself. My colleague, Mrs Tegenle, has already pointed out that we have discussed this very unanimously in committee. A small prospect of one of the next materials we will hopefully decide and send on in the Committee on Economic Affairs: the better support for students in Austria, the expansion of study funding. In this respect, we are working together on a package, an extension, an increase in study aid. There are good and constructive discussions in which good measures have been proposed that go in the right direction. We hope that we will create a greater volume to promote even more and to reach out to the poor, and that we will be able to decide on a truly sufficient increase here. After the many years in which this was not possible, this would be really due and welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20236	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20257	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement between Austria and Bosnia-Herzegovina on scientific cooperation to be concluded today is also welcomed by us. I say this both as chairman of the Committee on Science and as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is always subject to fruitful bilateral relations. Scientific agreements are to be welcomed in principle, the more so as Bosnia-Herzegovina is the last country in the former Yugoslavia with which there is no agreement. It is therefore quite positive if the mobility costs of joint research cooperations and events in the field of science and technology are now financed by the two Parties on the basis of reciprocity and taking national priorities into account. The establishment of a Joint Commission as a coordination body is also useful. Science and technology form the basis of economic success; in this way they also play an important bridge function and middle role and can make an important contribution to the deepening of political, economic and cultural relations between our two countries in the medium to long term. In this context, however, we are missing even more accurate figures on the budget and on the individual projects that this cooperation with life fulfils. Perhaps, as part of this scientific and technological cooperation, it is possible to negotiate compensation payments for those students from Bosnia-Herzegovina who, as foreigners, use Austrian places of study, thereby burdening the local science budget, which has already been limited. For a long time, we have called on the Federal Government to finally negotiate with the EU on cost-effective compensation for the overhanging of non-Austrian students who use their home places. In concrete terms, about €600 million of costs are incurred by EU citizens alone. What is so difficult at European level for uninventional reasons could be bilaterally negotiated in the framework of the present agreement with the non-EU member of Bosnia-Herzegovina from the outset. There is nothing to do with the lack of openness of the world if we find clear words on funding issues and if we are trying to achieve justice. Perhaps such a bilateral agreement was even a model that would have a negative effect on the European level. Anyway: We liberals will give our consent to the agreement. Cooperation is always good, and it is up to us to fill it with life and get the best out of it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20301	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20327	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina is to strengthen bilateral research cooperation. In addition to the primary objective of promoting bilateral relations in the field of science and research, joint participation in European and other international research programmes should in particular be encouraged and expanded. Article 3, which forms the central part of this Agreement, describes the intended forms of bilateral scientific and technological cooperation. In addition to the exchange of scientific and technological information, documentation and publications, the focus is on the exchange of scientists as well as experts within the framework of bilateral scientific project cooperations. In addition, this Agreement also refers to the mutual posting of scientists and experts for the purpose of conducting consultations, lectures and special studies. It also includes the implementation and support of common bilateral and multilateral scientific events. The conclusion of such an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina is, not least, useful and to be welcomed because south-eastern Europe and in particular the Western Balkans have been priority regions of the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics for decades. Accordingly, Austria has already concluded WTZ agreements with almost all states of the Western Balkans. Moreover, in most countries of this region, Austria is among the three most important foreign investors, and no doubt scientific cooperations contribute indirectly and in the long term to the expansion of economic relations. From a scientific point of view, the conclusion of this agreement is therefore a consistent step towards strengthening and further strengthening cooperation with the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20364	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1370 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who agrees? – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:05:00]] 15. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1514, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Notary Insurance Act 1972 (1566 d.b.) 16. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (1567 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20419	We come to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First word message: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20443	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to comment both on the ban on speculation and on one of the two amendments which will postpone the Federal Financial Framework, i.e. the medium-term Federal Financial Planning, from spring to autumn. The ban on speculation refers exclusively to the covenant. This is good and beautiful, and the provisions contained in this speculation ban are also to be welcomed. But what we need in Austria is a nationally uniform ban on speculation, which also includes the countries, communities and distributed societies. There's a big gap. We see that countries and communities are essentially excluded. The countries have understood to implement their own speculation bans on the basis of a 15a agreement – extremely well in many cases. Consider the example of Lower Austria: The speculation with housing promotion funds could still happen exactly as it happened under the head of state Pröll. Or do we take the swaps without any basic business in Burgenland: This is still possible in Burgenland. I think that can and must not be. We really need a united solution in this country, and, Mr Minister, I honestly miss your stability, because whenever it comes to the countries and to establishing uniform rules with the countries, you are going to get to the knees before the countries. To be honest, I am very sorry. But what else is connected with this speculation ban? – The ban on speculation also connects with an amendment. This speculation ban will be taken as a support rocket for a major amendment to the Federal Budget Act, namely to decide to postpone the medium-term financial framework from spring to autumn. I think that, honestly, scandalous, yes, I even consider this to be a desavowing of this House, the Parliament, because this is about changes to the federal budget law, and amendments to the federal budget law are a key matter of this House! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A change without careful debate – which has not taken place – is, in my view, a no-go. You, Mr Finanzminister, have done this with all vehemence, and I, Mr Finanzminister, reject this procedure with all vehemence and therefore table the following amendment, which will reverse this amendment, with which the financial framework is to be moved in autumn: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let me explain this amendment because there are a number of good arguments why I think that the shift in medium-term financial planning in autumn is not a good idea. First of all, I have already said that this is the king's discipline, a core discipline of the house. We were used to deciding unanimously in recent years – in particular, the major reforms in 2007 and 2009 – with the entry into force of 2013. This is to be done now. The second argument: At the time, we have thought very carefully about why we want to have a two-stage planning process in the context of budget creation. The spirit of the new federal budget law was to say: In spring we discuss the strategy and the goals and set them, and in autumn we make the detailed planning. We have not invented that ourselves either, no, we have looked away from some other countries that have it. That would be my third argument: When we look at the borders, we see that most Member States of the European Union, which have such medium-term budget planning, present their medium-term budget planning in spring rather than in autumn together with the budget. The main reason for the loss of the target and strategy debate in spring is a shift. This is a loss of public debate, and there is, of course, a rightful concern that we will have no time for a target and strategy debate in autumn, when everything is presented together with detailed planning, so if we are given information. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to remind you that you are not interested in a strategy debate. To be honest, I am very sorry. However, Parliament's participation rights are also seriously weakened. The budget process is being democratised, because it is not so, Minister of Finance, as you say, that we have more time for the debate in autumn. – This is not the case at all, the discussion time remains unchanged! They also say that this is an administrative saving. – Mr Finanzminister, I say to you: This is an administrative saving at the expense of democracy! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] A new government programme has now been presented and the stability programme will be presented and sent to Brussels in the next few weeks. I'm asking: How will you prepare this without having a medium-term budget planning? This stability programme can no longer include only fake news without the new content of the government programme and at least €4 billion associated with costs! I'm curious about what you're going to put to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another argument: We are in the middle of an evaluation process. Why do we not wait for this evaluation process, which, by the way, costs €200 000 before making so far-reaching decisions here in this House? I therefore ask myself, Minister of Finance: What are your real reasons for wanting to do this so urgently? – In your speech in January You said you didn't want to be blackmailed twice. So that means: You have no desire to conduct budget negotiations in spring and autumn. But this is one of your core tasks, Mr. Finanzminister! If you believe that during the year you will not be extorted by the other ministers with lusts, I will tell you: They're very fooled. It seems that budgetary negotiations, as well as a budget debate, are quite annoying to you. They do not want to have a public budget debate in the spring either. We'll miss them very much anyway. I think that this will greatly increase the transparency in the budget debate – transparency is an objective that we have even set in the Constitution. We Members here and today have the opportunity not to agree to this shift. If we are a self-confident Parliament, then we reject this advance, which is to be decided here and now. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you and invite you to accept my amendment in order to prevent the budgetary process from being moved from spring to autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20574	Mr Magistrate. The amendment tabled by Rossmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20663	Next word: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20684	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you can't convince experts like Rossmann with good arguments of God. Of course, the Federal Budget Act is the kingly discipline of this House, and of course we have succeeded in taking a unanimous decision in 2007 and 2009 – with the entry into force in 2013 – each. We have also committed ourselves to carrying out an evaluation of budgetary law – an internal evaluation, an external evaluation. Parliament's independent budget service has also been intensively involved in the internal evaluation. The Advisory Committee on Budgetary Law has now also done twice, and we have commissioned an external evaluation for the last time. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance very much, because since the beginning of February, since the new work programme came out, he has been discussing the idea of combining the federal financial framework, i.e. medium-term financial planning, and the Federal proposal in autumn, the discussion with the leaders of the political groups, with the budget speakers. Mrs. Sectionschefin Berger has also conducted intensive discussions with us. We have discussed intensively in the Council of Budgetary Rights. On and on, we wanted to put the financial framework in the autumn and discuss it together with the Federal proposal. However, we then agreed that we will only implement this scheme, this relocation of medium-term financial planning by the end of 2018, because we also consider it useful. Then the legislative period has also ended, and we know very well that it will also be difficult with the EU Presidency in autumn to bring everything, for example the budget process, into one hat. Mr Rossmann, first of all I would have expected you to listen to me when you put up theses here. [[Abg. Rossmann: I hear, I hear!]] Secondly, many of these these theses are simply not true, and this has also been proved by us with good arguments. In fact, we said that the stability programme, which took place on 30 June, was the subject of a number of amendments. It will be sent to Brussels for the first time before the letter is sent to the Commission by the Minister for Finance in the Committee on Budgets. [[Abg. Rossmann: Is there already a committee appointment, Mrs. Colleague?]] I offered it. I offered a public hearing. We have talked about this, and now there is no committee appointment. [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you know when the next committee is?]] – Mr Rossmann, unfortunately God has Mr Krainer's Committee date 28. April not yet released, but I offered him. [[Abg. Lugar: Now the Krainer's fault!]] [[Abg. Rossmann:... not offered! That's really a joke!]] Mr Rossmann! I don't want to discuss this at all without you. But I can't call you an appointment without my coalition partner, but I promised you that. [[Abg. Brosz: Is that in the Rules of Procedure?- Oh, my God!]] As committee chairman, I am in favour of my word. I promised you a hearing. I can't help it if the budget speaker on the opposite side has not yet released the appointment. We said we're making a hearing. We said we were discussing this. You say today we don't have time in the autumn because we only have the budget process, just this one week. First of all, this is not ground in stone. We can also extend the budget process with a round-trip, with an agreement. I get so much criticism from you and also from Mr Hable [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] We do not deal intensively with the federal accounts, we do not deal intensively with the financial framework. – Now we would do it, and you are not having any argument. I'm sorry, but it's just a good measure. It is a good rule and it only applies until 31. It shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, and published in the Official Journal of the We are not in a position to provide advice, as we have also taken account of the discussions in the Budgetary Advisory Council, and that is why it is now only valid until 31. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I've always said, We can change the budget process, we can discuss it more intensively in autumn. I even offered to deal with the accounts at a separate meeting of the Committee on Budgets. But please, if that is not desired and if arguments no longer count, you must not expect any more cooperation from me.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20819	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20841	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I would like to talk about the ban on speculation. This is a very important issue. We know from the past that with public funds, mismanagement has often taken place and high speculation losses have occurred. For example, I remember Salzburg, Lower Austria or Linz. In this respect, it is of course good if there are legal measures now to bring about such a speculation ban. Of course, it is clear that every man, woman, can do and leave whatever he or she wants with his or her private funds. Of course, what this is not about is tax money, public funds. These are public purposes and are, and must not be the subject of investment and speculation in the financial markets. In this respect, it is gratifying to hear that the government's proposal states that the federal financial performance must be justified by the fact that credit taking is not permitted for medium and long-term purposes, that derivative financial instruments are also inadmissible without the appropriate basic business. This is a well-known thing, because it is similar to that provided for in the joint motion tabled by Mr Rossmann and I here in the House. Unfortunately, what is not foreseen is that these regulations be adopted in constitutional order. There is no constitutional regulation, and this also means, of course, that there will not be a uniform system for federal, state and local authorities. This means that the method of herb and beet, including across the countries, will continue to exist. There will be no comparability, there will be no meaningful assessment of how these speculation bans are regulated and how they are handled in practice. This is a pity, because such a request, such a constitutional arrangement, would have been proposed by Mr Rossmann and I. Unfortunately, this has been rejected by SPÖ and ÖVP once again, as I remember, even without further discussion. You would actually have a constitutional majority in this House with our political groups. There would therefore be the possibility of adopting a system in this respect in the financial constitution and of a genuinely modern and uniform system of The Federal Government to provide for countries and communities. This possibility, unfortunately, has not been accepted. It is a missed opportunity, I also say, to work together across parties, and unfortunately also a missed opportunity to ensure that tax money is handled carefully in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20886	Next: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e20937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! – Should the President interrupt, or do we continue? [[Abg. Kogler: There was no applause with you!]] [[Abg. Vette: Of us there was no applause!]] [[Abg. Kogler: After all!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, let's interrupt, then we can go to a coffee!]] Of course, all of us would have wished that we could simply adopt the ban on speculation for all countries. It is quite clear that Austria has a federal constitution in which its own legislative bodies exist as so-called land days, and history doesn't go that easy. I am pleased, however, that we agree that this is a sensible proposal to enforce it once for the Federation, the subordinate legal entities and the social security institutions. It is the drilling of hard boards, so you will have to stay even longer with the speculation ban so that we get sometime a harmonious system in which the same is true. For this legislative period, we are glad that we have that, and we are glad that we have at least an approach based on the Article-15a agreement in the federal states. Now for the second part, and the good news, dear Bruno Rossmann, is: This only applies until 2018. That is to say, the postponement of this fundamental change from budgetary law, which we all decided in 2013, will only apply for two years now, not only to the previous evaluation, but also to the evaluation by the IMF and the OECD. Once these are available, we will look at that again – point one. Point two: 2018 is not a year. It is that year in which the next National Council election must take place, once again: it must take place because the five years are due to expire in autumn 2018 at the latest. [[Abg. Rossmann: Why?]] That is, we have an exceptional situation, the merger is not the normal operation. This provision shall apply only until 2018. So in this sense, it is not true that a model – a financial framework in spring, a detailed budget in autumn – is now being carried to graves, but is to wait for the evaluation and a deadline for this measure to actually reach the next GP. My invitation is to continue to discuss it and to look at what it is. Let's use it as a plan, and let's see how it will go! The final point is the request pursuant to § 27 GOG for the overrun authorisation. This is about the fact that we have a sufficiently well-equipped Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum plus the judicial agency in the Federal Administrative Court. It is necessary because more than 60 000 cases are pending for further treatment and processing, also to have appropriate man and woman power available. I think there is no overall reason for too much excitement with these laws and a reasonable form of continuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21033	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21054	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to ban speculation: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour, although we would have liked to see a better ban on speculation. We do not like the fact that the distributed units are not present again, and we would also have liked to have a constitutional anchorage, also in agreement with the Court of Auditors. We will, however, agree because the ban on speculation is still better than no speculation at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the second point, for the second time, the pooling of financial frameworks and budgets: I would understand the excitement of Mr Rossmann if it were a permanent change of this procedure, but it is only about this year and next year. Heuer is clear: The Government's work programme will no longer allow them to provide the necessary data in April. We in the opposition should be the last to prevent a government from working, and that is why they should be given the opportunity to present the figures at least when they are there. Then we'll do that in the autumn. As regards the next year and the new shift: Well, I think there will be a National Council election before, so that the issue will be dealt with from the outset. By the way, the Fiscal Council does not see this shift, nor does it see it as tragic. Nor do I see the abolition of democracy or, as Mr Rossmann has said, the desavowing of Parliament in this process of twice-moving. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] It is interesting, by the way, that this argument comes from a party that is on top of it to throw out her entire youth organization, just because the head of the youth organization has publicly criticized the party worryer. That's a very interesting argument. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are already talking about the budgetary process and the changes and the like, then we should really talk about essential things, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. Kogler: Since when do you read the “standard ”?]] Then we should talk about the fact that the objectives for action are finally revised, that the sub-books with which we Members also have to work should we be able to do so with what we are presented here. The entire reserve regime is also urgently revised. And with regard to the ability of the forecasts and the transparency of the budget documents: This is also a chapter of its own. – These are the topics we should talk about here.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21101	Now, Minister of State Dr. Schelling on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21122	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I may add the following additional comments to the ban on speculation: First: With those two federal states that have not yet implemented their speculation ban – the Burgenland and Carinthia – it is agreed that the speculation ban should be implemented by the end of 2017. Secondly, In addition to the statements by Mr Hable, who told us what risk-related positions are, I can add here that there is also a detailed regulation of all types of risk, strategic planning of debt and liquidity management and a human function of front office and back office or controlling. I think it's very useful for us to do this. The third supplement is: This regulation, which we are now creating at the federal level, of course also applies to risk-related charges in the field of social security funds. The last point, why I believe that this is a solution which, as it were, also creates a kind of federal ban on speculation – it has been strangely presented by none of the speakers in more detail – is the fact that in the future all those who finance the federal government speak about the Federal Finance Agency – those are the legal authorities and the federal states – to comply with the rules of the federal government. This means that those who fail to comply with the federal uniform speculation ban will no longer be able to finance it through the federal government in the future. I believe that this is a way that shows very clearly how seriously we see this task as a ban on speculation from the point of view of the federal government. As far as the point of the shift is concerned, there is, first of all, the deadline which has already been mentioned. Secondly, the shift is fully in line with the European Semester. It reduces the constant need for innovation in the federal financial framework. There will necessarily be a reduction in procedural burden both in Parliament and in the administration. The stability programme will be upgraded if you wish to discuss this at all, Mr Rossmann. And in fact, this multi-annual planning also seems appropriate due to criticism, for example, some international institutions. What does that mean to us? – In the end, this means better planning because we can make a federal financial framework not after the result of one month, but after the result at least half a year. We have thus more secure data, and if I remember that every few months the forecasts will be changed, if I remember that we have special events, then that is a good way. We can therefore take part in these forecast changes in the budget process. And I believe that you, Mr Rossmann, will in future have the opportunity to consult the ministers present there not only on the current budget, but also on medium-term planning – which is not the case today because of the process with the Federal Financial Framework. We also have an adapted government programme – it has been pointed out. In part, we lack the legal basis for implementation. That is also what we are talking about doing this shift in order not to do what you would blame us on the other hand, namely that we have not planned things properly. However, this is possible in autumn. And, of course, we have the opportunities to experience how the measures provided for in the government programme actually take place. This makes us much better in the field of planning and planning security. The time-limit for two years and the fact that one also evaluates the process and looks at what has been particularly good or what has not been so well, from my point of view is all right. And then again it is up to the House to say after this evaluation phase: We're going back to the old system. Mr Rossmann, as regards these ideal-typical ideas you have of budgetary processes: I should like to remind you that it was you who said in the Committee that this has not worked in the back and in the front, namely that in the spring one actually sets the ceilings and then the resorts independently plan their budgets. They themselves were the ones who put this criticism in place. That's why I can actually do it. You understand your emotion, but don't follow your arguments. That is why I believe that it is the right way to change this point and actually come to a budget planning process that is better than the one before it. I let myself be from you, and I say that in all clarity... – I have also listened to you, listen to me too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] If you want to make a speech, there's a speaker's desk, no subject at all. It also does nothing if you make the same arguments on the deadline request in the Committee and today. They didn't get any better. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Maurer.]] But what I do not like about you is the accusations you make about the meetings of the Committee on Budgets. I am present in each Committee on Budgets. I give answers to all the questions, even if you wish to have the agenda in some way, until you come to an issue that is of personal interest to you. I also give an answer to these questions, in which everyone else would say: This has nothing to do with the item on the agenda. – You can also speak, there is enough time for you to speak. [[Abg. Maurer: This is your obligation! It's not a grace!]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... in the Financial Committee!]] I would like to point out that if you are already calling on this Parliament – and I am proud that this Parliament is making these decisions – you must also, at the parliamentary level, plan the dates that are feasible. And I also point out what complications we had when we installed the Standing Subcommittee so that we can discuss things with the experts there in epic width. We have also set up these so that there is as much information as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] That is why I do not like this accusation by you. It would be good if you left it in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21198	Mr Obernosterer speaks next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21219	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! I believe that the words of our Minister for Finance on the two agenda items are really not much to add. I would, however, like to come to the ban on speculation very briefly. It was said quite clearly: Whoever is financed by the federal government has to submit to the rules of the federal government. But we also know from all the federal states that, if you know what happened in the past, no one else, I think, of the financial referents there or wherever, the intention is to somehow speculate with public money. Nevertheless, it is important that there is a law for that. The article 15a agreement is currently under way. Seven countries, as I have said, have already implemented this, and two countries are still sparse. It should hopefully also be implemented in Carinthia and Burgenland by the end of the year. It is important that we finally take a line, namely that there is no speculation with public money and that this is also prohibited. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21256	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21277	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out once again that we have a very important task, and this task is to restore the confidence of citizens in public financial management. After the many financial scandals, this trust is severely damaged, and we have to make appropriate decisions here. The ban on speculation has already been addressed several times. I believe it is important that this ban on speculation is implemented for the federal government, its legal institutions and social insurance companies. It is the anchoring of the principle of risk-based financial provision for the federal financial management. What, I think, is very important is the pooling of financial management at the Austrian Federal Finance Agency. This will minimise the risks associated with the financial performance. It is likely that completely riskless action will not be completely excluded by this legislation, but the risks will be weighted accordingly. In this context, it is also important for the Austrian Federal Finance Agency to provide countries with low risk financing. This minimizes the effort of the countries. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, the extension of the loan period from 70 to 100 years is also important. This is also proposed, and I feel that this is a useful addition. The work programme of the Austrian Federal Government provides for a single ban on speculation throughout the sector of state. With this law, I believe, we are taking another important step in this direction. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21317	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21339	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! If you look at the discussion about this combination, you need to know the backgrounds, and the backgrounds are quite simple: We have a chancellor who finally decided to work with his party after many years. There was a programme, namely Plan A, into which you have written all the possible things you want to implement now. As one does not know how to cover this financially, and the Minister of Finance does not know that either – you have said that yourself in the Committee; You have no idea what all this will cost and how it is to cover – until it is all negotiated and cast into numbers, of course, you can't make a preview. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Mr Lugar, you cannot consciously say the untruth here!]] This is the reason for moving this financial planning into autumn, which is the background. That's like when someone doesn't make a budget at a company and is waiting for the actual numbers. Of course it will be more precise, that is not a question! Of course, a budget is always inaccurate, of course a budget always has uncertainty factors – not a question – but it is about the political discourse. It's about finding out if what you're planning is reasonable at all. You don't want to submit to that, and that's the problem. That is to say, you want to make a reasonable financial plan, which should be discussed here in Parliament, since it concerns Austria, not in spring, but in autumn, and then you are supposed to know what the figures look like. The discussion about whether this is useful at all and whether we want it at all and whether it is in the interests of Austria at all, but they do not want to lead you in the spring, namely now, but in the autumn. That's what it's all about. It's not about saving money, it's not about saving administration, it's not about saving costs, it's only about having a chancellor with a party that decides after many years to work, and no one knows if we can afford it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21391	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Agenda item 15: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Finance Act, the General Social Security Act and other laws, in 1566 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the draft law concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Rossmann, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1. If you want to make these changes, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who agrees? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 16: Draft federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, together with the title and receipt in 1567 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – In turn, this is the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:44:49]] 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1500 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Jersey on the termination of the Agreement on the taxation of interest income (1558, e.g.) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1501, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Guernsey on the termination of the Agreement on the taxation of interest income (1559 d.a.) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1502, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Isle of Man on the termination of the Agreement on the Taxation of Interest Rates (1560, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21511	Now we come to Agenda items 17 to 19. The debate on this is being held under one. The first and only mention of this item is made by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make it very short. This is a very encouraging point, namely the termination of old agreements, with the important reason that the automatic exchange of information with many countries of the European Union and, in part, with third countries has succeeded. In the case of these countries too, the information has already been available since the 1st century. January 2016 will be exchanged according to the new global standards, therefore this retroactive termination of the old agreements by the end of 2016, where, as we know, there were a large number of payment flows just over the canal islands that are rightly suspected of tax evacuation. I'm glad we have an automatic exchange there. There is still much to be done in this area, but a compliment on the part of the Minister for Finance: I'd never believed a few years ago that we'd come as far as we are today. In this sense: It is a good law that we withdraw the agreements, an even better one that we also get all the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21569	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Jersey on the termination of the Agreement on the Taxation of Interest Rates, in 1500 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. Who's right? – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Guernsey on the termination of the Agreement on the Taxation of Interest Rates in 1501 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. Who's right? – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Isle of Man on the termination of the Agreement on the Taxation of Interest Rates, in 1502 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. Who's right? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[18:48:16]] 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1524, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Aviation Tax Act (1561, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21644	Now we're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21668	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also at the top of the gallery! I'm talking about flight charges. This should be halved if a majority in this House finds itself, and I fear it. So that we know what we're talking about: The flight charge was introduced in 2011 with the following reasons – you can read a wonderful story: Air transport is the largest climate sinister. Air transport enjoys very high tax privileges, which also have to do with the international tax situation. And you have to make sure that a shift results more towards the railway. – This is very much the reason for the flight charges inside. And then it's inside. ‘If there is any additional tax burden on air traffic on the basis of Union law, an evaluation of the Aviation Tax Act should be carried out.’ There is no such change in international tax legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, you know I am a friend of numbers, facts and facts. I have now looked at what the air traffic in Austria looks like. Figure 1 [[Keeping a table with a column diagram entitled “Total Air Movements at Austria’s Airports 2000 – 2015” in height]] We see here the flight movements in Austria compared to the airport Vienna-Schwechat to the federal airports. It's very clearly visible: Vienna is far beyond that, and the airports of the Federal Republic of Germany have run below. And you see, since 2009 the flight movements in Austria have been falling. The total numbers of passports on this picture show an up and down in the federal states, in some cases they rise, in Vienna-Schwechat definitely. [[Keeping a table with a column diagram entitled “Total numbers of passports at Austria’s Airports 2000 – 2015” in height]] The number of passengers increases despite the introduction of the flight charge. So it can't be connected with that. What you see in comparison is that the whole story is a lex Vienna-Schwechat is because Vienna Airport is so much more important than all other airports in the Federal Republic of Germany. So we're talking about a Lex Wien-Schwechat. If you look at the flight movements for Vienna-Swechat again in detail, it looks like you have fallen, but because the machines are getting bigger and more passengers are moving, the passenger numbers have increased, and that is in competition with the neighbouring countries, with the Germans having higher flight charges than we do. [[a table with a column diagram entitled “Total Air Movements Vienna-Schwechat 2000 – 2015” in front of the speaker’s desk]] [[a table with a column diagram entitled “Total passenger Vienna-Schwechat 2000 – 2015” in front of the speaker’s desk]] It cannot therefore vote on the argument that the flight tax is distorting competition. They also did not present any template, no expertise that would prove it. You've done one thing: They gave in to the regrets of the airport operators and in particular to the Vienna airport. I think that's really pathetic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find it pathetic and disgraceful, at a time when we know that we have to do something to combat climate change. So that the ladies and gentlemen at the gallery know what we are talking about: There are three charges: for the short distance, for the medium distance and for the long distance. Short distance is Europe plus North Africa plus all Russia. There you pay 7 € flight charge. The middle line is India and Central Africa, such as Congo. That's where you pay 15 €. And for the long distance it is 35 €. And this is exactly what you want to halve! If you now know that 80 percent of flights – this is said by Statistics Austria – are less than 1,200 kilometres away, this means that 80 percent of flights are short-haul flights. That means you give the passengers 3,50 €, so almost nothing. At the cheap flight prices we have, I fly to London to 69 €, 3,50 € nothing! And on this pity of the airport operators you fall plump in. You have no studies, nothing at all! It's a climate-political disaster, what you're doing here, and that shows how little you're dealing with numbers, data and facts before you decide on such nonsense that will unfortunately go over the stage today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21769	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21790	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Georg Willi, I have a few things to do right here. First of all, the reduction of this ticket tax primarily concerns the airlines and not so much the airports. – This is the first point. [[Abg. Brunner: Then it has no effect on...?]] The second point is – and this is already a decisive one: The announcement that we are halving this ticket tax alone has led the AUA to the location Austria and to the expansion and additional reception of staff. That is to say, we are securing jobs and perhaps creating new ones, because the signal is a real one. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We stand there – you said that yourself – in international competition. And your argument – just a small sidestep to the discussion about the third slopes –: Well, then the stop in Bratislava – by the way they go by bus to Vienna – will not be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We need to look at our location now, and we are in the competition here. It's also about tourism, it's about our businesses. One thing about climate protection: Air transport is one of the few industries that have set themselves a climate target, namely, by 2050, one wants to halve the CO2 emissions caused, and that in the event of rising traffic. How can this come about? – Through new technologies. You yourself said that the machines are getting bigger, that is, more effective, and especially the Austrian supplier industry is there leading. When you get into the plane, even in a large Airbus, there are many components inside that are partly invented and produced in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: We know that!]] Quite honestly, we need to strengthen this location, and that's an important signal. I am grateful to the Minister for Finance that he has enforced that we are coming to this reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last thing because you talked about a Lex airport in Vienna: I think that this can be a great advantage for regional airports. [[Abg. Willi: Munich has higher ticket charges!]] There is also a very tough competition, and Innsbruck could benefit from it, because many airlines calculate very precisely where they fly and if this pays off, because the margins are very thin. Then, even small amounts may lead to more connections just from regional airports to other international cities. I think Innsbruck would benefit just like other regional airports such as Salzburg, Graz et cetera. That is what we want, and that is why this reduction is correct and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21880	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Values listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! The halvation of the flight charges from 2018 onwards concerns around 500 companies. 140 of these 500 companies have their headquarters in Austria, and 65 of them also have their headquarters in Austria, which means jobs. I think that's very important. Based on the figures of 2015, this tax affects around ten million passengers in Austria. It has changed a lot, think only of the many search engines on which airlines can offer – and the search engines do not take environmental factors and so on, but they are looking for who is the cheapest provider. Therefore, I believe that these €60 million, which benefit the customer, are well invested. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This measure will increase location attractiveness. Because you spoke of a Lex airport in Vienna: You were there when we discussed with all the operators of regional airports in Austria by the Transport Committee at Vienna Airport, and it became clear that this flight charge for small airports is as much a problem as for the major airport in Vienna. The small airports are fighting for every machine today, and at airports there are also many jobs we have to try to get. I'm just taking Klagenfurt. People say that they fly away from Liège more cheaply than from Klagenfurt, but this is, of course, an ecological problem, because you drive 45 minutes by car to Liège and 20 minutes to Klagenfurt, so the emission values are much higher. [[Abg. Willi: Because of 3,50 €?- Oh, my God!]] – Well, we have to see how people calculate. [[Abg. Kogler: Do you know what you are talking together for a pot?- Oh, my God!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Willi.]] Klagenfurt airport – you know that very well – has the problem that there are airports in nearby countries that can calculate significantly cheaper and that people fly away from there or the airlines fly to these airports. This is where jobs depend, and we have to look at them, so I believe that this is the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21960	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e21982	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's relatively simple: This tax, which was introduced in order, among other things, to clean up the budget and to have a bit of room in the basket, is counterproductive, has brought nothing and, as far as possible, has been abolished! That's the base one day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you can discuss how to do it, who uses it, who harms it, and so on. On the principle and in order to clarify our position, I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be consistent and would mean abolition. Well, in the first step, there's a halving now, that's not so bad. Why is that important? - It's always being discussed around. It first helps the airlines and in particular – you cannot stress enough – our Austrian airline. [[Abg. Willi: Who is “our”? They're German!]] Why does it help them? – These are the specialists in the CEE market – Central and Eastern Europe, as it is so beautiful in English, or as others say: the old chandeliers. There's a lot of business for the AUA! And how does she fly? – Of course, it does not fly from Warsaw to Paris or Warsaw to London, but makes a stopover in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] And what exactly happens at this stopover? – It is taxed twice; other companies fly directly and pay nothing at all. The once to this nonsense that the AUA is alleged not to hurt at all. It's very bad! Secondly, we come from AUA to the airport: Where does the AUA land? In Vienna! And there is an old rule that doesn't need to know every parliamentarian, but at least those talking about air traffic should know: One carrier, one hub. So if the Carrier Austrian Airlines dies in Vienna, the airport will soon die. And that's what I'm looking at in Vienna, if you can't fly anywhere from Vienna, because the Austrians don't have it anymore, because it's going somewhere like Lufthansa in Munich or Frankfurt or elsewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] [[Abg. Willi: Because there is so much space!]] There has already been a departure from companies, because Vienna in this eastern region is no longer the yellow of the egg. Do you have to tighten that up? I think the mayor of Vienna knows exactly what he has on these companies, on the companies and on all these taxpayers who have their locations here that pay their taxes and taxes – income tax and so on – and therefore it is actually a sense to have a passenger tax as a penalty. I have to say honestly – Mr Jarolim will know he is the lawyer of the AUA – that this tax is completely eliminated as soon as possible. Now I say why we did this with the second reading: This is for the colleagues of the union, because if we now reject this request for halvion and say that zero would be better, then Mr Schopf will run around again and say: You rejected that! – He is not yet developed intellectually so far that he recognizes all of this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why we say: Yes, we will vote in favour of this proposal at third reading. Mr Finanzminister, You're taking off this unnecessary burden! Every day before that happens, it's a good day for Austria. They also don't fly around the area lustlessly and pointlessly, but it also makes sense when you board an airplane. Benefits You're this chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22087	Ladies and gentlemen, I must give you a call for order because of your statement on intellectual development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Mr. Schopf will enjoy it!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Not because of development, he said yes: non-development!]] I can add that the amendment tabled is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22175	Mr Bernhard. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22197	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The subject of this debate is to halve the flight, and we NEOS support this halve – however, with a smiling and crying eye. I would also like to explain this more precisely. The same applies, moreover, to the application of the liberals for the abolition of the flight charge. We do not consider these and many other taxes and taxes, which we are currently calling eco- or environmental taxes to be effective: You have no effect. [[Abg. Kogler: Eben! ... raise!]] It is – Mr Willi has also illustrated this very well with his panels – not so that by introducing the flight tax we would in any way have reduced, steered, or provided any good service to the environment, but we have introduced the tax to clean up the budget to a very small extent. This means that what we need on a so-called eco-social tax reform, on a tax-structure reform, is actually a CO2 tax, and of course this CO2 tax should include kerosene. [[Abg. Kogler: The planes wouldn't be caught again!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Ah, yes!]] The fact that aviation wants to halve emissions by 2050 means that it is not included in the Paris Agreement, just that it is not forced to actually convert to zero by 2050. I just ask – because we are now talking about halving the tax – to look a little further forward! The question is: How will the industry develop over the next 15, 20, 25 years? – We know that in development, including prototypes, there are already hydrogen aircraft, we know that the technology is progressing and that we will not operate aviation forever exclusively with kerosene. This means that there are three elements that we can address in Austria – even without the European Union. The first and most important step would be the abolition of various taxes and taxes which do not have a steering effect. This would be in addition to the flight charge including the NoVA and the car tax. Furthermore, a CO2 tax would be introduced. This should include all those areas that emit CO2 emissions. In addition to the above, these are also the mineral oil tax, all motor insurance taxes, the motorway toll and the natural gas tax. Of course, industrial enterprises already included in the trade in certificates need to be excluded. – There are very good examples for this, which is nothing that Austria would reinvent. This was done by Sweden in the 1990s, and at the same time, in the same measurement period – that was almost 20 years – it had a reduction in emissions of more than 20 percent and an economic growth of 70 percent. What we must do, and this applies to environmental policy, but essentially to all policy areas: We can, if we reduce the tax and tax burden only to a certain extent, make a shift to environmental taxes because the labour factor has to be reduced. The flight charge has shown that you can simply delete taxes, and they seem to have no one missing. In the next step, I would like to see prospects, visions and a future-oriented tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22260	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22281	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! We are discussing the halving of the flight charge – an interesting concept, because aircraft that fly does not pay the charge; only the planes that land and get up again pay them. [[Abg. Lugar: Planes don't pay!]] In reality, this is a site charge that discriminates against the Vienna airport in competition with other locations. Now this is not an ideal story for our Vienna airport. In recent years, more and more aircraft have managed to cope with a higher number of passengers, but at the same time reduce the number of landings. We all know that an airport is good for the people who use it, good for the people who find their workplace there, but a certain burden on people who live around the airport and feel, hear and experience the air traffic in their daily lives. We know very well that one airport has many tasks for the future: one is the question of climate protection, the other is the reduction of the nuisance of the environment. Both costs money, and for both, an airport – in competition – has to collect tariffs: Tariffs which are just at the limit of the possibility. If we tax these rates, it will simply be harder to raise the money that the airport can use to make the necessary investments towards climate protection or for citizens' compatibility. We must keep this airport in a position to be able to be able to take it into account, even in order to allow it to go into a fossil-free future, not what the aircraft is about – the plane will regulate the EU – but the airport itself, the emissions of the airport. This is our topic, and it is to be expected that we will see a lot of investments at this airport that will lead him into a fossil-free future. In reality, the airport has to produce its own electricity – photovoltaics offers an opportunity to do so. The airport has to generate its own heat, the airport of course has to supply its own electricity with its entire rolling field. There are so many possibilities that we can already look at at other airports, and that's where Schwechat really needs to catch up. Much has happened, you have to recognize that, but it is quite certain that this airport, until it can build the third runway, has a lot of work to do. We will expect this from the airport – I think it can – and the exemption from and the halving of this flight will help the location. [[Abg. Kogler: Why did you even introduce them?]] In the same way – and I have to say that too – it would be very helpful to the agricultural site if we were to halve diesel taxes too. But that's another chapter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22344	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22366	Mr President. Mr. Minister! To amend the Aviation Tax Act: The Flight Charge Act, which was adopted as part of the 2011 Budgetary Accompanying Act, is to be amended for competition reasons and the rates are reduced by 50 percent. The charge shall be paid from each airline in respect of persons flying from an internal airport. A competitive measure cannot be assumed with the obligation to pay all airlines. The benefit of a reduction in taxes is therefore exclusively the consumer, so that an amendment to the Air Tax Act is to be welcomed. If passenger numbers have been largely marked by an increase in recent years, this is due to an increasing utilization of line and charter air traffic, so that any increase in air pollution cannot be associated with the charges of the Air Tax Act. The Vienna and Salzburg locations are characterised by high economic efficiency, so that their stock can be promoted. Impact on the environment shall be regarded as subordinate to economic sites. The airspace has no limits, so that any emissions from nearby airports can reach the Austrian airspace. In the case of persistently high unemployment, measures should be preferred which, in conjunction with the creation of new jobs, promote the economic location of Austria. In this context, it is appropriate to support the construction of a further runway at Vienna Airport. Reference to Salzburg Airport is made to the tourism factor and the nearby location to Bavaria. The amendment of the Aviation Tax Act is therefore to be accepted as an important measure to safeguard Austria's economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22413	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22434	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Just briefly to this debate: I suppose you all know the climate agreement. He has been mentioned more often in the debate, and I assume that you also know what he means, after all, we have ratified him in the House almost a year ago. It applies by that, it is national law. Maybe again to illustrate: The climate agreement means that we have to get out of all fossil energies completely by 2050 and our net CO2 emissions have to be zero – and by 2050 it is not long. That means it's a little speed in this changeover required. What has this Federal Government done with regard to climate protection? - Nothing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Mr Finanzminister, I know you do not like to deal with this issue, but it concerns you as well. You have not addressed an eco-social tax reform, you still adhere to the €4 billion annually of counter-productive climate-damaging measures. That you are dealing with real site-related issues such as the risk of the Carbon Bubble, we are still waiting for it. We have already requested this several times, but nothing happens at all. The only thing that happens suddenly is: The Federal Government halves the flight charge. We fight for every cent in expanding the eco electricity, we fight for every cent for the public, but the money to reduce the flight charges, do you have suddenly?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! Apparently not even...!]] – I don’t understand at all! Please explain this to me, because I don't understand it logically, either, if you say: We support the climate agreement, and on the other hand we say: We're halving the flight charge! – In my logic, it doesn’t work together, but maybe you can still explain it to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Because the location question was addressed and that all the planes then fly elsewhere, it should be said again: The climate agreement is a global climate agreement. It applies in each country, and it will have to be implemented in each country. That is to say, this net zero-CO2 emissions by 2050 applies to all countries, to all industrial nations, and that is, of course, integrated into the overall emissions of air transport. That's total emissions! Perhaps there will be short-term shifts, but there will be no long-term shifts. As regards investments in the airport: They are beautiful and good, but the emissions are mainly caused by air traffic, so it is also about reducing them. [[Abg. Deimek: The whole business with..., with Asia...!]] If we invest in the site, we invest in the future industries in the field of environmental technologies or in the energy transition. Let us not stop these sectors of the future which are so important to the site by means of counter-productive subsidies! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Deimek.]] If you say, We want this flight charge, then you also say: We don't take the Paris Agreement seriously anymore! – At least this makes FPÖ honest, including US President Trump. Be so honest, too!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22524	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22545	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It was, as I think, already discussed enough by my previous speakers about halving the flight charge – the liberals demand a complete reduction to zero. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] Mr Willi, I have listened well to you and I really appreciate you as colleagues and sometimes for your views, but don't be angry when I say: Green economic policy may seem logical on paper, in practice the world works a little differently. [[Call the FPÖ: Don't give it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] No one will believe that we are halving a flight, a tax receipt, just because you want to give someone something, but you know exactly what it is about. [[Abg. Kogler: Explain why you introduced them! You weren't so hot back then?]] Name: Austria is a tourist country, Austria is an economic location – Congress Tourism in Vienna – and we know exactly that if we weaken the airport Vienna-Swechat, we will weaken the entire domestic economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light ecker]] And since we are already talking about environmental protection and air emissions in Europe, I also have to say something about this: If the pilots no longer land in Vienna, but in Bratislava, because they are avoiding, where is the difference from the emissions? – I don’t know, I don’t understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Willi keeps a table with a column diagram entitled “Total passenger Vienna-Schwechat 2000-2015” up.]] It is important and right for Austria's economic location to halve this flight due to the fact that we know that more investment is being made there. We know that the Rotkreuz Wien-Schwechat is very, very important, also for the regional airports in Austria. My colleague from Carinthia has already said this: The concerns we have with our airport in Carinthia, I say quite honestly, I do not wish anyone – no other federal country and not even Vienna-swechat – and if Vienna-Sweechat gets weaker then we can lock the airport in Carinthia at all. [[Abg. Kogler: And that depends on the 3,50 €?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We are doing something here for economic development, for Austria's economic location, for job security and for maintaining regional airports throughout Austria, and that is why it is right and important that this is implemented today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22660	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22690	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look together at all the speeches, except that of Mr Willi and Mr Brunner, you can ask a few questions. After all, the liberals are still the constant tests. I don't know why you don't agree now. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] In reality, with this kind of argumentation, red and black would have to demand a subsidy of ticket prices, because then everything would be much better – just as in the counter-businesses of the Eurofighters, where one has also wondered why we do not buy a hundred, because the economic logic is so compelling. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you: Where is your argument and where is your commitment to the Loipersdorf package, which I do not know when you have decided in which you have written in a very long explanation and reasoning how super and how ecological that is? You didn't say anything about that today. I see a lot of those who have clap the same way at the time – and who now clap because it is reduced by half. That's completely illogical! That's a holler you're argumenting together. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Tell me you don't want to! You can do that. Tell me you've cheated! I say it was a remedy, it was right. Let's go to the arguments. When I'm told – and that's the main argument – it doesn't actually have a steering effect: What does that mean? – Then customers can’t be influenced by it anyway – but 60 million € less revenue is already! We don't have it elsewhere, but with those – like us and others who are flying around in world history – we already have to save €60 million, because of the economic location, although it has nothing to do with it according to your own arguments. But where you can get 60 million € anywhere else where you meet the poorest, don't talk about it! - That's it! [[He-Rufe and opposition to the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now a fundamental ecological argument: Look, of course it has failed to solve all of this globally – at least Europeanly – and then better in the basis of assessment! This would, of course, be a kerosene charge, possibly correlated with the CO2 content. But since there is no such thing, we must look for tools; and this too would be part of an ecological tax. You always say you do one. You'll never do that, and where she is, you'll halve it or you'll get rid of it. The Minister for the Environment – that is the last one at all – has also said that we should adjust the fuel price to the diesel price – that is, down, because he has passed away. [[Abg. Jewellery: Hello?! Mr President.]] This government has gone ecologically. Get back on track, and don't talk that nonsense!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22758	Ladies and gentlemen! I have to give you a call for order for the accusation of the stand – you have expressed it a little differently. [[Abg. Kogler: Wienerisch!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Fladers!]] – Wienerisch – Precisely –, “flader” it was. [[19:22:01]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1524. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning Z 1. Whoever agrees to these changes, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Prince: You are not for nothing, you Greens!]] [[Abg. Kogler: We are in favour of the government's proposal of five years ago!]] Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:23:31]] 21. Point report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 2050/A by Mrs Ing. May. Werner Groiß, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Export Funding Act (1562 d.b.) 22. Point report of the Committee on Finance on amendment 204/A by Mrs Ing. May. Werner Groiß, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Export Promotion Act (1563 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22861	We now come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Big. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22888	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Oh, my God! Dear sisters! We are discussing two proposals for initiative from the National Council for the security of Austrian foreign trade and the internationalisation of the Austrian economy. Export is the Austrian economic engine. 20 years ago, when EU accession, this amounted to €37 billion, today it is €131.6 billion. This not only concerns goods, but also services are offered and sold internationally, amounting to € 53 billion. Our goods and our know-how are internationally recognized and are asked – and we are happy to offer it. Especially today – exactly on the day on which the request for Brexit was handed over in Brussels – we see how important the EU is and how much our external trade relations have grown accordingly. In the past, there were only a few companies operating internationally. Today, the number of companies has increased considerably, from 12 000 companies 20 years ago to more than 52 500 currently able to sell their goods internationally. Our export ratio is excellent at 54 percent of GDP. 6 out of 10 euros will be earned in export, and every second job depends directly or indirectly on export. So it is a special honor to us today and a personal pleasure for me to be able to present these proposals for initiative and to vote, because we can still guarantee this success story of Austrian export today. In addition, we have made further changes in this proposal so that participation financing and participation-like instruments can also be promoted in order to drive the internationalisation of the Austrian economy. The development measures can also be secured with this proposal. The proposal comes in time today before the last regulation expires, and we are extending the guarantees by five years. This enables us to valorize again in five years and adapt this law to the requirements of the Austrian economy and can thus reasonably support the export economy. A good day for the Austrian export industry is therefore a good day for the Austrian economy, on which we will adopt this bill with broad approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22927	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22946	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the Export Promotion Act, before the 10th anniversary of the Austrian Development Bank, we are launching a novel that is due to a qualitative improvement in the sense of a political coherence for sustainable development and with which we carry on a little qualitatively. In § 9, we now have a new paragraph 6, which refers, among other things, to the fact that the decision-making body must also make a quality assessment of development policy and that this quality review should be based on international development policy relevant guidelines, such as the United Nations Guidance Principles on Business and Human Rights or the principles of the World Bank Group, as well as the ILO core labour standards or OECD guidelines on the responsible production chain in relation to conflict minerals. This is also very important in that we will have an EU regulation on conflict minerals, but it will not enter into force until 2021. That is, we are also filling in this time gap with this novel. That's very important. What I think is very important: A few days ago, like every year, I met with the Managing Director and the Managing Director of the Austrian Development Agency. Bank – and, of course, this novelle was also part of the conversation we have held – and the two will now deal with it in such a way that they will take all these international standards now in force, see where what is inside, where which benchmarks that need to be fulfilled in the future are inside, where they will be interconnected, and thus also the body that decides to give a good hand in order to know what needs to be considered in the future in order to be truly sensitive to the award of funding. I think this is a very successful and very important measure, a good step. However, qualitative improvements in the whole area of businesses, the private sector and human rights are still a broad field in which we still have much to do and which we can still pay attention to, because there is still a relatively irregular and much happens, which should not happen. At least for the However, with this innovation, we can ensure quality assurance in the sense of a coherent development policy, which I really think is progressing. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e22985	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23006	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Land robbery is a serious human rights crime, and all of us are encouraged to implement measures and create framework conditions and then actually to design them in such a way that land harvesting is not carried out with Austrian taxpayers. The Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank (Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank) is a relevant development policy player – not a question – and also has a legal mandate to actually make sustainable investments in developing and emerging countries. This sustainable investment would actually not include land harvesting – but it happened. The Development Bank invested 12 million US dollars in a development fund for Africa, and this fund then gave a loan to an agricultural investor; this investor in turn bought country in southern Africa, namely Zambia. There, soya, wheat and maize are grown in industrial style. In 2009, the investor said that 1 600 jobs should be created – de facto, there are 200 jobs; and the payment of minimum wages seems to have been avoided. The fund actually wanted to implement a small farmer programme within five years. After five years, the fund and the investor were still in the planning phase, so there was no small farmers' support programme again. And: Land conflicts and actual displacements have occurred, as evidenced on the one hand by the studies commissioned by the European Parliament, namely by the Human Rights Subcommittee, and also by the new 2017 debt report. If you were to deal with matter, with NGOs and those organisations that are actually fighting and dealing with land robbery, you would also know that exactly this fund has invested in it. The principles mentioned in the legislative text, as Mr Bayr just put it before me, namely those of the World Bank Group and the International Labour Organisation and the OECD Guidelines, do not provide concrete steps to prevent land robbery with Austrian taxpayers. These guidelines are older, traditional and not enough to actually support. However, there are those who would be very likely to do so, and the UN has in fact prompted 2011 and 2012 to implement guidelines – and these are in fact part of these new laws. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] From a green point of view, the reduction in the liability framework should be welcomed in principle, so we can also agree with the Export Funding Act. However, the changes to the Export Promotion Act are only vague and do not go far enough; there are better instruments, and they belong to this law – and not what is now required! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23070	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23154	Mrs Yılmaz has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23172	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed initiative by colleagues Groiß and Jan Krainer extends the period of validity of the Export Funding Act and the Export Promotion Act by five years. This means that we use these laws longer. Ladies and gentlemen, these two laws are essential tools that, with their export success, have made our businesses and small Austria top players in export. Not only large enterprises benefit from this state security, but also small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a win-win situation for businesses, but also for the state, because those companies that are almost taking advantage of this guarantee are of course getting fast loans from the bank, but they also have to pay a premium to the state. As I believe, these two laws form the basis for an active labour security policy that is being implemented here. I hope that it will be supported in all political groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23206	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Draft federal law amending the Export Funding Act, together with the title and receipt in 1562 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft federal law amending the Export Promotion Act, together with the title and receipt in 1563 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on mandatory compliance with the UN guiding principles for economic and human rights and UN guidelines on land by the Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:37:07]] 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1414, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the IAKW Finance Act (1564 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1415, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the free transfer of property of property and property of the federal state to the state of Salzburg is passed and the Federal Property Act is amended (1565 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23310	We now come to points 23 and 24 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Doppler is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23337	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I take a position on item 24 on the free transfer of property from property and property of the federal government to the country of Salzburg. In 2016, Salzburg will be the owner of its historic monuments. On occasion 200 years of Salzburg near Austria, the Federal Government transfers property rights to six properties with buildings of great importance to the country of Salzburg. It is the Marien column at the Domplatz, the Hofstallschwumme on Herbert-von-Karajan-Platz, the equestrian swimming pool on the main square, the Hohensalzburg fortress – a very important institution for Salzburg and tourism in Salzburg – as well as the Neue Residenz as well as the Residenzbrunnen am Residenzplatz. This complete transfer of property serves the preservation and use of the land of Salzburg and intends to end the different responsibilities, and that is good, because for Salzburg, as I think, these rags, I say now, are a necessity, and they naturally also encourage tourism in Salzburg. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23371	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23392	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, this is a story with Happy End for the state of Salzburg. In the context of the anniversary events of 200 years of Salzburg near Austria, six plots, 186 artworks and 78 mobilities from the state of Salzburg were transferred to the property of the state of Salzburg. I think – Mr Doppler has already mentioned it – that is a very important action for Salzburg, because it has a great symbolic power for our country, that we are finally once again legitimate owners of these properties and works of art. ==References====External links== On 3 March 2017 it came to the fore: “This led Landesführer Wilfried Haslauer to see why his predecessors failed.” – It is good, and this should also be emphasized and honoured at this point. My special thanks and thanks to the Salzburgers also, Mr. Finanzminister Hans Jörg Schelling, Vice Chancellor and also Minister of Culture Thomas Drozda, are in favour of supporting this transfer. This would not have been possible without the willingness of the appropriate ministers. It's an important event in history. In 1816, Salzburg lost its independence and thus also the properties and these works of art. After 200 years, it is gratifying that we got everything back, as you say, so beautiful. This is a story with Happy End for Salzburg, for the citizens, therefore again my thanks to the Federal Government and the competent ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23431	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23450	I am referring to the IAKW Financing Act. Vienna is one of the world's most famous and popular congress cities, and so we have to invest in and expand the ACV, the Austrian Center Vienna. Mr President. Minister Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen. There's no one in the gallery right now. All viewers in front of the televisions were warmly greeted! This year alone, the ACV 13 large congress will be held, and the calendar of dates will be filled in loudly according to the press release. More than 4,000 congresses are held annually in Vienna. Now, of course, you can ask yourself: What is it about the Federation, it is actually a matter of Vienna? Why does the state even close €20 million? – Quite simply because it pays more than it pays off. The value added, which is behind all these things, is an incredible €377 million, with a third remaining in Vienna and two thirds flowing into the country. In 2016, there were more than 461,000 nights, which means €94 million for the public. These are impressive numbers, and if you consider that the conference tourist spends about € 534 a day, then you can say that is a truly obfuscable sum. What is the important thing for the conference tourist? – The surveys clearly show that they are the infrastructure and the facilities. A conference centre such as the Austrian Center Vienna is a huge competitive advantage for the city of Vienna, but also for the whole of Austria. We can be happy to live in a country where others are making vacations, and that is what I mean now, not so much, but rather these conference centres are a huge competitive advantage and competitive factor and a wonderful business card for all of us. [[Abg. New builder: I can do that in Turkey too!]] The dynamics that these congresses provide must not be neglected, and that we are leaving European metropolises like Paris behind us is also a fact and a beautiful thing. But one thing has to be said quite clearly: Whoever rests on his laurels has already lost, and the experts predict that as a conference city we could gradually lose in importance if we do nothing if we do not invest. The ACV was built in 1987, so it is high time to re-establish a modernisation. Policy cannot directly create jobs, but it can set the conditions for doing so. In this sense, the investments in the Austrian Center Vienna have my fullest support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23486	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23508	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Under these two agenda items – as Mr Unterrainer has already mentioned – we also have to deal with the subject of improving the location quality of the Austrian conference centre, known as Austria Center Vienna. We have to decide to release a one-time investment sum of up to € 32 million. In the run-up to the Committee, not all the political groups have been able to get involved in this, because two smaller groups have not yet been able to go the way, but I think the contentions that have been raised earlier are quite clear. The Austrian Center Vienna is already one of the leading congress centres today, not only in Austria but throughout Europe, and contributes significantly to the creation of value in our country. Last year, the Institute for Higher Studies, the IHS, conducted an investigation into both the location quality and the economic effects of the Austrian Center Vienna, and has consistently achieved positive results. I would like to mention a few figures, especially for those listeners who do not know them. It results from the Austrian Center in our country a gross value added – we distinguish ourselves by € 1 million, obviously due to other rounding processes – of € 378 million. [[in the direction of the Abg. Unterrainer]] There are at least 460 000 benefits per year, or some 2,000 full - time equivalents, if you look at them in terms of employees. By the way – and I believe that this is a positive factor that we have to take into account: At least €94 million in public charges are charged. However, the IHS also shows – and this is a fact that also finds international echo and, I believe, is shared – that especially congress guests are among the most exciting visitors, i.e. tourists in a country. In the specific case, Congress guests of the Austrian Center spend € 534 a day here in Vienna, and that is quite a factor that properly builds up value creation. It is now about deciding the law so that the federal government takes over the corresponding cost payment to 65 percent; 35 percent is part of the municipality of Vienna. But this is – and I would like to stress this once again – one-time investment costs, while the current maintenance costs are borne by the so-called International Headquarters and Conference Centre Vienna AG – this is nothing but the carrier company of the conference center. Perhaps I should also like to mention briefly what is planned for concrete changes, also in the direction of the Green Group, which, as has been said, is still somewhat backward from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm On the one hand, it is intended to redesign the entrance – something that is very important for representativeness – where additional exhibition spaces are to be set up in the courtyard, and the halls are to be reached from all levels, thus taking a further step towards the accessibility of the disabled. According to the Ministry of Finance, this will produce positive effects for the next 20 years in an order of €493 million, of which 184 million for the city of Vienna. This investment therefore makes a clear sense of business. I think we can decide together. It is very important that this investment further strengthens the leading position of Vienna as both a conference city and a cultural city. It is a win-win situation, which will benefit both the local economy and, of course, the employees in Vienna, but also in Austria as a whole. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23566	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23587	Mr President. Minister! High house! I'm allowed to quote: ‘Manufacturing of a ownership structure corresponding to actual use and financial responsibility’. – This is the background of a gift from the federal government to the country of Salzburg. This means that these objects are already in Salzburg or are already stored in Salzburg. So far, the federal government has been financially responsible, and from the date of this gift, the federal government is exempt from this financial burden. It is about beautiful objects, about cultural properties and furniture, which have a high identification value for Salzburg and thus also mean a tourist attraction. We are talking, for example, about the Hohensalzburg fortress, the Neuer Residenz, the chapter swimming pool, the equestrian flood and other well-known Salzburg objects. The transfer of ownership to the Land of Salzburg must be carried out on a basic basis, while at the same time respecting and including a ban on tax and disposal in favour of the Federal Republic of Germany. The appropriate occasion for this is the anniversary of 200 years of Salzburg near Austria, which was celebrated in 2016. All of Austria is pleased that this beautiful federal country became part of our whole territory 200 years ago. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23615	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23636	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Transfer of ownership to the Federal Republic of Germany Salzburg: On the occasion of the 2016 anniversary of 200 years of Salzburg near Austria, historical objects were transferred to the property of the federal state of Salzburg. Although a win-win situation can be assumed for both the Republic and the Federal State of Salzburg, both the country and its population are to be thanked. With the free passage of historical objects such as the landmark of the city, the fortress and the fortress, as well as the objects of the university, and so on, the state of Salzburg assumes both the liability and the responsibility of its solemn continuation. Both history and tourism will make a significant contribution to the conservation and maintenance of historical objects and thus ensure their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23662	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Would the rapporteurs like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft federal law, which amends the IAKW Finance Act, together with the title and receipt in 1414 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft federal law, which introduces a federal law on the free transfer of property and property of the federal state to the state of Salzburg and amends the Federal Property Act, together with the title and receipt in 1565 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:52:51]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 67, 75, 94 and 102 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 69, 98 and 99, 105 and 110 (1576, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23743	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Schimanek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23770	Mr President. Minister Schelling – he's just going! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring today in my speech to the citizens' initiative of the association's action on 'helping facts! Introduction of a nationally anonymised statistics on abortion and investigation of the reasons/motives for it’. I would like to congratulate the initiators once again. With far more than 50 000 signatures, this citizens' initiative is one of the most successful in recent years. I personally very much welcome the fact that we are now taking this issue into account in the relevant field. The Committee, in the Health Committee, can discuss this because this citizens' initiative has more or less been sent to the Committee for two years. Some comments have been requested, and now we have them where they belong. I very much welcome the fact that we are now able to discuss them in terms of subject matter and content. But it was already clear from these different opinions that this issue is highly ideological. I think it is very, very important to discuss very sensitively why women have a abortion. The fact is, Austria is one of the few countries in Europe that do not have such statistics. I personally would also like to know why women choose against a child and do not give these children life. In Germany, Switzerland, England and Wales, France, Italy, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden, such statistical data are collected and, from a scientific point of view, such statistics are also to be welcomed. The introduction of such statistics also means a clear added value for policy, legislation and enforcement. That is not what I say, says the University of Vienna in a statement, and that is actually nothing more to add. But what would be really to be discussed in this case is – and this was also mentioned in these statements – that we should be more careful to put the prevention of young girls and women in the foreground again – I am very scared that many young girls still have so little knowledge of contraception in 2017 and that there are still so many abortions – but please do not be as the opinion of the Federal Ministry of Health, which meant that they should start education in schools as early as possible. I'm in favour of making sex in schools age-appropriate and sensitive, but the sex case has really not lost anything in folk school.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23821	Mr Lipitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23843	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So I do not want to leave the accusation of two years in the circle, because it is very often the question of what opinions the citizens' initiatives still want. We have also discussed a citizens' initiative in a very detailed manner last time, in which the contributors wanted additional opinions. We all know that we can get opinions from federal authorities when we consult other bodies, but we have the problem that they can give us an opinion but do not have to. I believe that the citizens' initiative you referred to was a very sensitive one, and it was very important that we consulted a midwife body and also certain specialists, and we received these opinions. Unfortunately, it is God’s way that we always need a certain period of time until we get it when there are such desires. At the last Committee meeting, we discussed a total of 35 different topics and looked at where they belong. We have taken note of a number of issues in which there is already a progress or which are currently in the field. implementation, but in some petitions or citizens' initiatives, we have also requested the assignment to a specialist committee. I would like to highlight the two citizens' initiatives relating to broker commissions, because we discussed early on how cheaper living is possible. I would like to thank Kathi Kucharovich and the youth organization, which has put pressure on this. We have discussed this today, and it is important that this is discussed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we also discussed the citizens' initiative against sexual harassment and inequality of women at Austrian universities and requested that it be allocated to the Scientific Committee. I believe – and this has also been demonstrated by the opinions – that the legal establishment of a working group would be welcome, which works on this at the universities and looks at it there. – This is also an important way. However, we have also dealt with the citizens' initiative on facts against hetze. That was quite, very important to me, because lately more and more often, yes, daily hate postings that we have to do with and which are not removed at all or late. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I think it is important to draw young people's attention to what they can do with these hate postings and how they should deal with them. That is why we also asked the Ministry of Education once again. And if it is said in the discussion that this citizens' initiative has only taken one direction in the party, I would like to say that – it is important to draw young people's attention to what hate postings can do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One point I would like to make very briefly: We have also had the topic of hay as food; we Carinthia know what we are talking about. I just want to say one thing: In other countries this is allowed, and it has been forbidden with us. We should discuss this. It is always the question of what happens when something happens, who then bears the responsibility, but in principle we should not detach innovative ideas, because there are also Heusuppe and other things from this material. So I think it makes sense for us to discuss this accordingly after the opinions have been received.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23909	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23930	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer today to two citizens' initiatives on the abolition of the broker commission for rental apartments. Interestingly, this is supported by SPÖ and Greens and, I believe, also by NEOS. We should make a few things clear on the matter. Perhaps foreshadowing: We are talking about a sector with more than 4,000 companies and 10,000 employees. That is, if you want to abolish the broker commission for rental apartments, you would be very dangerous to this industry and its entrepreneurs and employees. I would like to add the following, and I believe that quite clearly, no one, nor in any opinion, argues: Of course there is also a performance behind this broker commission, and this performance must be honoured. If this is no longer done via an official broker commission, this will simply be included in the rental price, and I can promise you that will solve the problem the high rents, high land prices and housing prices in Austria are certainly not. This is certainly the wrong way. What should be added on this occasion: The broker already has the task of consulting both sides – tenants and landlords – and in my or our opinion this also makes a serious real estate agent, which is there for both sides. What I would also like to say: There is no obligation in Austria to rent an apartment via a real estate agent. This is a free decision of everyone, both tenants and landlords. And because the young Greens always raise the subject: If you rent a student apartment via the ÖH, this is already free from the broker commission. We have put forward two proposals which would really reduce the cost of renting. There is a request from us that the broker commission can be taxed within the framework of the annual compensation. This has been rejected by all of you. In any case, we think that would be a very useful story. And the second request we have made is that the rental contract fees should be abolished, for one thing is clear: The state and the finance ministers are the largest profiter of rising housing rents. One more point, because this morning was also a huge theme: We have quite a relevant void in Austria, that is, a lot of apartments that are empty for a variety of reasons, and in this area, too, professional brokers are needed to market these apartments. Summa summarum I want to hold on, this is a very simple placebo that you offer here, also very populist, you can say. The true solution is not, at any rate, to reduce rental prices in Austria and to create real relief for tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e23982	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24003	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My previous speakers have already given an overview of the diversity of petitions and citizens' initiatives. Mrs Schimanek has already said this: The citizens’ initiative “Helping facts!” has all called for us lately. But we now have a wide range of opinions, and now, I believe, it is where it belongs, namely in the Health Committee, and there it is to be discussed further. I would like to address a petition today, which makes it quite clear that something can be triggered by a petition. This has succeeded in setting up a post-partner office in Zell am Ziller. In 2016, the post office was closed and the communities concerned then showed resistance. There has been protest, and it has been demanded by a petition to receive these postal services; it has not necessarily been about maintaining the post office, but at least about setting up an equivalent postal partner. The claims included: maintain a functioning infrastructure in this municipality, where many other communities are also involved; Equal opportunities and fair conditions of competition for trade, trade and business. The community has tried to find a post partner, 17 companies have been contacted and requested, but unfortunately nobody has found it. Out The effort then arose to develop an alternative model. There has been an example model here in Tyrol, in the municipality of Jochberg, in which a post-cafe with postal services was established. Such a one is now also built in the municipality of Zell am Ziller in the same style, a private operator has been found, so that there is now a postal partner and that the maintenance of postal services is ensured. I would like to thank the mayor at this point, but also the post office, who was really willing to work together to find a solution here, and, of course, the private operator who is investing here. In future, there will be a so-called post-cafe in Zell am Ziller, which offers postal services and local specialities. This means that the population has their postal services as close to home as possible as they used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24042	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Hafenecker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24064	Mr President. High house! In my speech, I refer to the petition with the number 94: “The Austrian Federal Government’s action against the introduction of a discriminatory car toll in Germany”. This petition has been made by Mr Heinzl. I am, honestly, surprised by the fact that Mr Heinzl is making such a petition in the Committee on Petitions and not making a request on this subject in the Committee on Transport, in which he is also the chairman. This surprises me, and I now have two questions, because in the final effect we are now assigning the petition to the Transport Committee. That is, Mr Heinzl brings in a petition which he can then assign himself by his colleagues. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Yes, so is he, colleague Heinzl!]] I just wonder why he chose this approach. There are two possible answers for me: Either he has no access to Mr. Minister and he needs Parliament to support him in contacting Mr. Minister – that is the one way – or he is not satisfied with the work and performance of Mr. Federal Minister and has him asked by the Committee on Petitions to act; that may be the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hibart: Both, Mr Heinzl!]] I have really thought about it for a long time, but I have come to the conclusion that it is probably a failure of Mr Heinzl's PR action. All right, we are now discussing this, and I thank Mr Heinzl for losing a few words here. The first question I have to ask is: Why is it that a breach procedure with the EU is being sought when Germany decides to lift a road toll? I believe that this is still a matter for colleagues in Germany to provide for such a legal situation, and if we want to achieve positive results in the sense of the Austrian border population, I would choose the way to negotiate directly with the German transport minister and thus find a suitable transitional solution for the Austrian border areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Then try it!]] That is where I think it is necessary not to go to Brussels. This would have the effect of not having a lengthy procedure on us. This would have the advantage that there is no dispute at all, and above all the advantage that there is no further burden on relations, which is obvious because of this. This petition has been supported by 211 people. My appeal to the SPÖ and also to the 211 people who supported this: As an Austrian transport minister, if you did three things, you could do them much better, and that was very quick: It was only necessary to reduce the car tax, to abolish only this miserable NOVA again, and, Mr Heinzl, the vignette in Austria could also be made cheaper. This would be an approach which could be They deliver immediately – but will not be done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] In contrast, what is the government doing, Mr Heinzl? – It's thinking about increasing diesel prices, and that's why your double game, this double morals has been immediately looked through. Mr Heinzl, this action has failed very strongly!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24157	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24178	Mr President. Mr Hafenecker, you obviously did not understand the functioning of the European Union, because discrimination against EU citizens by means of German legislation, Austria is simply not in conformity with EU law. It is therefore right to act here, therefore, in principle support for this kind of communication, discussion. All of these things that we are dealing with in the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions are serious concerns, in so far as this concern is concerned. I am convinced that in the Committees we will continue to discuss this issue intensively. I would like to say that the Committee's work, including in terms of the result – and this is what we see in this collective report – is, in so far as we have given almost all the citizens' initiatives and numerous petitions to the committees, including those who may be politically critical as to whether this concerns abortion or other things. We have also said, yes, we give it to the Health Committee, which should deal with it, there are the experts, there is the minister, there are the competent people. I think we should deepen and maintain this process. I would like us to do so with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bernhard, to begin an initiative at group level again, including for a joint request, only as a symbol, if it does not go through until the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. But I say that the way in which the Committee works is constructive, is solution-oriented and is close to citizens and citizens. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress this positively. And that is not a matter of course either. I've been experiencing times when everything's been blocked. I would like to say this clearly and with all my appreciation. The example with the post offices – Mr Gahr specialises in that – shows that the administration or legislation is sometimes really problematic that the communities do not even have transparency about what assessment criteria are used when post offices are closed. We could also do more than just take note of it; I would expect that we will have more trans- restore parency. Mr Gahr, if this happens again, perhaps we should think about it, and really see that the communities get more information. - That's what I'm talking about. Interestingly, there is a single citizens' initiative that has not been implemented in the Committee on the Environment or the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I am really sorry: the Citizens' Initiative No. 99 on “Energiewende für Österreich!” is supported by numerous NGOs. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret this – climate agreement, all these things would be inside, really bad. We could have assigned them to the Committee as well as any other, and the topics of climate strategy, climate protection law, energy efficiency law would have accompanied us over the next few months, where this citizens' initiative calls for the following cornerstones in Austrian climate and energy policy: full conversion to 100% renewable energy, 100 percent eco electricity by 2030, reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies, promotion of energy-efficient buildings as well as environmentally friendly and sustainable mobility. We did not get through, there were a few factions that were for the assignment. I do not know why it has not been allocated, but perhaps we have seen a statement to the Minister for the Environment today. Given its way of reasoning, when it comes to cuts of almost €40 million in agriculture, environmental protection and climate protection, in rural development, without parliamentary discussion, I have a very massive deficit at government level, and we should look at it more closely in the future. Finally, I would like to mention positively that today we also had a discussion on the citizens' initiative on “fair food”, which we already had in the Committee, we have allocated it to the Committee on Agriculture and we have found one here today: This citizens' initiative on ‘fair food’ has received the approval of all political groups in this plenary session. I just want to point out this curiosum: A citizens' initiative has managed to get 100 percent of the vote in plenary. I think it would be an opportunity, Mr Bernhard, to discuss at the next committee meeting what this 100 per cent agreement in the National Council means then in practice for the executing minister or for the relevant ministries, because this is also a unique one: 100 per cent consent here in plenary. What is still in the pipeline and what I would like to inform you about is the citizens' initiative on ‘homeopathy as cash benefits’, where there are still opinions – a very interesting initiative, as I think. In Switzerland, for example, this is already integrated into the rule system with other alternative medical methods. I would also like to draw attention to the petition on psychotherapy for a health certificate, an initiative of my fellow mosquito and Glavischnig. I think these are things in the sense of precautionary medicine, in terms of which we see that there is a lot of movement in society, and where we may have to create the necessary space in the institutions, that there is more willingness to use such instruments as well. We will discuss this at the next committee meetings, and I am already very confident that we will be dealing constructively with each other there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24236	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24257	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 25: Collection report for petitions and bureaucrats (ii) the Commission's proposal for a I have said it from this point of view: It is quite, very important and a proper and important institution that the concerns and concerns of the citizens are reflected here in Parliament. I take a position on the Citizens' Initiative No. 105: “With the broker commission for tenants!” It is true that for years the rental houses have been top riders in the Austrian inflation statistics. People can almost no longer afford to live, the rental prices have risen to enormous heights, and a point that is often overlooked is the broker fees. Dear Peter Wurm, I'm giving you the right thing, it's out of question, it's not just the broker fees, they certainly don't make the herb fat, but it's also a point that we can't ignore in our considerations, like we can together, and we all can make rents cheaper for people, because if people can't implement the basic right to living anymore, because they can't afford it anymore, then we're obliged to finally take measures here to ensure that people can afford the rent and housing again. Peter, you know it best yourself, the fact is that the broker fees are based on the amount of rents, which is why there are of course also interests here that the rents are accordingly high, that is out of question. In Germany, for example, the landlord no longer has to pay commissions since 2015. Peter, you're right, it's true, it's a part of the rent included, I know, I looked at it. However, I have also looked at other European countries and can say that in Holland, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, but also in Switzerland, the tenant is not charged with all the costs. I believe that this is an important factor, and it is important for young families, for small earners, for young people seeking housing – the colleague from the SPÖ has also mentioned it today – that rental prices be reduced to a level that people can afford. I believe that we should all work as urgently as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24296	The next speaker is Mr Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24318	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The citizens’ initiative, “Helping facts!” which has often been quoted, will then be followed by my colleague Mr Gamon here on the speaker's floor. Before I refer to the content of the Committee on Petitions, still in the direction of Mr Worm, we have also discussed it more often in committee: We NEOS do not believe that the introduction of the buying-in principle for brokers makes living cheaper because first of all it no longer offers and second of all it is a one-time effect that grows out. We only believe that it is market economy right that those who order a service pay for it, and that there is a distortion in the fact that those who order it do not have to pay for it. This also means that there is no free market in the classical sense, as we understand it. That is why we support this – and not because we believe that living in it will be cheaper. Then to Mr Pirklhuber's comments: I believe that in the last three and a half years, the Committee has changed a lot in the way it works. But there's also a lot ahead of us. It can be said that there is a discussion in the House that an electronic citizens' initiative is being introduced. How meaningful this is and how this is then technically implemented is a second question. It is also discussed that the initiators are given a unique right of speech in the Committee on Petitions when introducing an initiative, and I think that this is also a useful matter. These are points with which I have repeatedly referred to the objective that we must make this a right for the initiators to come closer. In the last Committee on Petitions, we have had a fundamental agreement among the leaders of the political groups that we are preparing the next hearing and that, I believe, for the first time in the history of the House, I can prepare a proposal for a conference between the Land Days, the National Council and the Federal Council on this subject, which has been very common in Germany for a long time. That's hope it's going in the right direction. Nevertheless, if we now look at the issue of civil participation in general and see how fast everything is going, then I think we are significantly slower than change in itself. If we are satisfied with the steps we have taken in three and a half years, we are expected to double and triple again, and not to be wrong. That's why: Yes, I would like to return to the offer that we will once again move towards a joint proposal by the leaders of the political groups and also make an appropriate request. However, I would also be very concerned about - because of the discussions with representatives of the initiatives - because many have also met me - that these initiatives also feel stronger in Parliament. I have already said it at one point or another: The problem is that we do not at all comply with the promise we make to the outside, especially in communication. It's like this: The initiator comes to Parliament, hands over the package; if he insists on it, he gets a photo with the Madam President. Although the Parliamentary Directorate is in contact with him, he does not receive a concrete opinion from Parliament in the sense of: What has been the position of the political groups? What's the further process? This is a big black hole for him – except if you expect a citizen or a citizen to be concerned solely with politics. But we must not expect that, because they all have a different bread job. That is why I am pleased because I know how hard it was when we started three and a half years ago, on the other hand, on the other hand, something impatient about the next steps, I am very concerned. Although I have the feeling in the Committee on Petitions, with Mr Gahr and Mr Lipitsch, that the government groups are also very cooperative, the large weather situation in the government does not make me confident that we will now carry out huge reforms in the Committee on Petitions. I will remain somewhat optimistic, because of the next proposal for a reform, and we will see how the next vote is going to take place. - A nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24376	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24397	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! How many abortions are there annually in Austria? What are the causes of this? And why is there no anonymity in Austria? Is there a statistical record of abortions? – We have discussed these questions very often here in the House. Today they are still upright, they are to be put back, for they are not answered. And at the last committee meeting, we also discussed a citizens' initiative and a petition, which deals with this subject in detail. The citizens' initiative 69 – it has already been addressed – “helping facts!” was a very, very successful citizens’ initiative, with 53,729 supporters: 48 590 have supported on paper and 5 139 online. This is already a high number of supporters, which should not be left out here in the debate and which should also be taken into consideration here. The petition of Mr Marcus Franz – the petition 102 – will also deal with this issue; he will then also talk about it. We have also allocated this petition and this citizens' initiative to the Health Committee in the last committee, where this will be dealt with at the end of the day. The comments are also interesting if you look at them. There have been too many opinions, namely 20, and most of these opinions have been positive, i.e. anonymised statistical collection. Interestingly, from the red side – and here you can certainly put the ideology into play – rejected comments: There was a negative opinion from the Ministry of Health, from the Ministry of Education, from the city of Vienna – one could continue. A total of 20 opinions were five negative. I believe that there must also be a sufficient and good discussion in the Health Committee. If one then hears the counter-arguments that there are not the necessary conditions, then one can only resist this: Then we have to create the conditions! Who, if not here in the House, should make every effort to create the conditions for anonymizing these data to be collected statistically? It is also impossible to understand and, in my opinion, not to argue if almost every European country has such statistical surveys that this is not the case in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There's something wrong with that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I hope that we will really come to a solution, a good solution, because we need these data, we need these figures, we need these surveys. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, above all, to stand up for this. Unfortunately, as in many other areas, there is no agreement with the coalition partner – in this there is no agreement for these surveys. I hope that we can really come to a conclusion, that we can also decide here and then also have these figures and can also work with these figures because they deserve the supporters and, above all, the women who are unfortunately often affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24449	The next speaker is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24470	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat surprised by the remarks made by Mr Hafenecker on the petition 94, because I believe in principle - Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned this - that it is a profoundly unfair system of empowerment that the Federal Republic of Germany wants to introduce, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the Austrian drivers are not the sufferers of this system. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The vignette is not unfair either!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Bilateral negotiations!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed this subject in detail a few weeks ago in the current hour of Europe. We have also received three opinions from the Committee, and finally, at the last meeting, there was a decision to request an assignment of the petition to the Transport Committee. Our group supports all the measures that help us to get rid of this disadvantage on the part of Austrian drivers. Ladies and gentlemen! The financing of the high-level road network is a major challenge for all countries. Asfinag is investing €1.2 billion in motorways and highways in Austria this year, ensuring the highest performance of the network and maximum traffic safety in the future. Of these, €530 million go into the new construction of routes and second tunnel tubes, €470 million are going into the renewal of existing roads and road tunnels. In other words, we have a toll system in Austria, which also largely ensures our transport system financially. It is regulated here that all road users make the same contribution, and that is what we demand from our neighbours. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24520	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24541	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can speak here today for the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative on the introduction of a nationally anonymised statistics on abortion and investigation of the reasons/motives for it. This Parliamentary citizens' initiative was supported by over 50,000 people. Today I am here for this citizens' initiative to help them to take account of their concerns and to meet their concerns. Why is that so important? – Because, I believe, there is no area in Austria in which there is no corresponding statistics, and it is therefore not understandable if, in one area, perhaps out of a certain family ethics, one does not allow a statistics and on the other hand, there is no place in the ethics of responsibility. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vavrik.]] Therefore, I would like to take a very conscious look at the opinion of the University of Vienna, the Institute for Family Research, which explains on about 40 pages what it looks like in other countries, which parameters are necessary and why it is good to introduce a statistics. We have received comments from all the federal states. They were mostly positive; only one negative thing I would like to say is that of Vienna. And there you need to know the following: When you talk to the people in Vienna and ask: Why can't you say that a statistics is always an added value if you want to know anything, why or if you're for it or if you're against it?, then you get to hear behind your hand: If I were to support a statistics on abortion in Vienna, I would lose my job! Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, it must not be possible for experts from a state government to be put under political pressure. It is important that there is an expertise here. It can be given. And it is not necessary that if such an opinion is not expressly negative, however, it is said that the figures in the argumentation can be quickly abused and discussed to the detriment of women. No, ladies and gentlemen, a statistics does not state whether you are for it or against it. It provides a basis, offers an opportunity to decide on it, but without basics we do not even know how many abortions there are in Austria. The danger that we have more abortions than in other countries is always expressed. In order to make this clear, it will be urgent that we allow a statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24592	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24611	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We rarely talk here, much too rarely about abortion. I think it is important that we end this, that we detabilize this issue and have a dialogue on it at once very openly. I think you can see right away, either by the boredom of many male colleagues here or otherwise, that there may also be some malaise in this issue, that perhaps the prints will wind a little bit if you just hear the subject. We know. There may be rare debates here in which concepts such as vagina, menstrual blood, uterus and so on – many will be immediately unwell again – but we need to talk about it, because they are important issues, they are about women's health. I also think it is good that this item on the agenda offers an opportunity to talk about it. And because the citizens' initiative has the title 'helping facts', I would like to help you with facts in this whole debate. There are also a few myths on this subject, including statistics around which I would like to clear out. First: Abortion of pregnancy is still a taboo theme. – That's not a myth, that's true. This is also the case in the opinion of the Ministry of Family Affairs. Second claim: It's an international custom. – Yes, that is true, but for certain reasons. Why is that so in other countries? – The opinion of the state of Tyrol: “Compared to other Western European countries” means “very difficult [...] because, in part, the costs are taken over by health insurance or there is also a very low-cost and low-swelling access to contraceptions.” – In Austria, only the medically justified cancellations are paid; the figures are known. Another claim or myth: We would no longer have to appreciate this, but would have reliable figures about how many demolitions there are. - Probably not! According to the Ministry of Health, a reporting obligation should be introduced, as it is a private intervention. In turn, I quote from the opinion: ‘Even if a legal obligation to report is to be established, in the absence of verifiability, it is not expected that meaningful data can be collected.’ The opinion of the Ministry of Education and Women of that time reads: "It should also be borne in mind that in some federal states abortion of public hospitals is still not possible. As long as access to no meaningful data can be collected.’ This also says the Austrian midwives' body in its opinion. It also mentions as the reason why one cannot use Germany well for a comparison, the fact that the Federal Office in its report there speaks only of an “overview of the order of magnitude” and not of a precise survey of the specific figures. A funny detail at the edge: I think it is also difficult to imagine that a party such as the ÖVP would be committed to making a data collection via any privately paid intervention, such as: How many beautiful surgical procedures or how many eye laser treatments or whatever there are, and what are the reasons for that? The board of doctors seems to want this because its opinion states: “Data collection is an important basis for modern evidence-based medicine. This should not be excluded from the medical field.” – I am once excited. Many also say that they do not want to harm the time-limit solution. Sometimes I'm not quite sure. The opinion of Vorarlberg states that it is a long-term health policy objective of the country to keep the number of abortions as low as possible. This is interesting, therefore, because there is no abortion at all in Vorarlberg's state hospitals. There is there a single doctor who does this, a single doctor for the whole federal state! Another myth: We don't know why women are driving off. – Of course we know that! There are countless scientific studies on this in Austria, in Europe, all over the world. We know the reasons why women are driving off: Problems in the partnership or already completed family planning – it is often women who already have children who do not want any more – financial or professional insecurity or also high professional satisfaction, which can also be a reason. There is even a study that explicitly deals only with how intensively women deal with these different motives. In its opinion, the Institute for Family Research explicitly advises against consulting subjective reasons for a voluntary abortion, including because doctors are not social scientists. In its opinion, the State of Lower Austria also points out that precise motivational research should be reserved for scientific studies. Last myth: Statistics help to reduce abortions. – No, not at all! Enlightenment, access to contraception and adequate unideological advice help prevent abortions. The question is actually: Why are there so many unwanted pregnancies in Austria? There are also some indications from the Austrian Contraception Report, why this could be so: moderately effective contraception, false assessment of its own fertility, difficult access to effective contraceptions and – also interestingly – increasing fear of hormonal contraceptions. These are still the ones that are most easily accessible; which are not to be preserved for nothing but most effective for that. Finally, I would like to say what the Austrian midwives' body said in its opinion: It “considers prevention and an age - appropriate education as more effective methods of avoiding unwanted pregnancies and reducing the number of abortions. ” – I can only join those who spend their lives bringing new life into the world. I hope I explained to you why statistics are not so simple. If you all have an honest interest in preventing abortions, then there are a lot of possibilities that we have, many solutions that are on the table, which can be implemented very quickly. This statistical discussion is a blatant debate and not an honest one. I believe that we need honest, open and distabled access to this issue because it concerns a lot of women in their lives because it is a very difficult decision that many women make. That is why I am looking forward to our being able to talk about it even more often in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24690	It is now Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24708	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually didn't want to talk about this topic at all, but to something quite different, but first of all I would like to give my previous speaker in her analysis, also in her interpretation of the schine arguments that I really see in the same way, and perhaps I would like to add: No question, we all wish ourselves less abortions! That's perfectly logical, not just! Abortion of pregnancy can never be a substitute for a meaningful and properly applied contraception in life. However, we also know that we are one of the few countries in Europe where neither contraception nor abortion are paid by the public authorities. This is also due to the fact - you have already said it - that there is no corresponding statistics: because this is not paid publicly, not covered by the public hand. It is therefore quite logical that there are no public records about this. But we know, for example, from Christian Fiala's prevention report that, for the majority of women, the obstacle to resort to good, effective, modern and reliable means of contraception is the fact that they cannot afford it. This may sound ridiculous now, because we know that the three-month syringe, the pill, whatever, does not cost a lot. Of course they don't, but for people who really get up at the end of the month to be able to give their children a warm food, that's also a lot of money. I therefore believe that we should really think about looking for a completely different approach and make it our goal to create access to modern contraception for as many women as men – we should not let men go of responsibility either. We should ensure that we offer good sex education – and here Finland is exemplary as an example. Someone said: What does sexual science have, what does the “sex case ” have to look for in kindergarten? – He has something to look for everywhere! This is not about teaching children in kindergartens, how to satisfy yourself or anything else, as was the last thing that was claimed to have been renewed in the provision of sexual education. That's all nonsense. That's not the point at all, but it's about getting to know his body, accepting his body, being able to deal with it, setting limits, saying no if you don't want something. You can't start early enough with this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also has a relaxed and normal access to sexuality and prevention, an over-schedule, which is the result of those who prevent how we do it. I also think that there is a need for real and evidence-based access to this issue. However, statistics on demolition do not help us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24754	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. It's a kilnauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24775	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! On the agenda of the last Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives there were also petitions or citizens' initiatives dealing with renewable energy, such as the Citizens' Initiative No. 99 on the ‘Energiewende für Österreich’ (Energiewende für Österreich), which was taken note of in the Committee. This citizens' initiative is in favour of a full conversion to 100% renewable energy, which is now decided and is to be fully implemented by 2050 at the latest. They were consulted by the Ministry of the Environment and also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of the Environment has stated that there should first be an integrated energy and climate strategy and that the legal objectives for the period up to 2050 should only be achieved, building on it. Of course, objectives such as the promotion of alternative fuels, the shift of traffic to public transport and rail as well as the reduction of fossil energy use are essentially supported. The Ministry of the Environment has also announced that the ratification process of the Paris Climate Change Convention has already begun and is now preparing a Green Paper on Energy and Climate Strategy. Of course, great hopes will also be placed in a new eco electricity law, which would be necessary in particular for the reduction of the waiting line for windwheels. Unfortunately, however, no positive result has yet been achieved. The Citizens' Initiative on a ‘Procurement Principle for Real Estate commissions’ is allocated to the Building Committee for Negotiation. I think that it will be very important to pay particular attention to the achievements provided by brokers, both for the landlord and for the future tenant. In particular, I consider the transparency of these services to be important, because, at least, a fee should not be hidden at other prices – at rental prices or elsewhere. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24808	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24830	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, we have had 35 points on the agenda this time. 20 petitions and 15 citizens' initiatives were dealt with. Of these 35 agenda items, four petitions and five citizens' initiatives have been included in the collective report. There were five allocations to the respective specialist committees. A citizens' initiative, which is now supported by nearly 30 000 signatures, had to be postponed, namely the Citizens' Initiative on the Protection of the European Steel Industry & Industrial Workplaces, which was introduced a long time ago. This citizens' initiative deals with the dumping standard exports from China to Europe and also to Austria. From the completion of this citizens' initiative, i.e. In Austria, 25 000 jobs are directly dependent and affected and approximately 100 000 jobs are indirectly employed. Ladies and gentlemen, this citizens' initiative had to be postponed because an opinion was missing. Two opinions were received, one from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the second from the Federal Chancellery, but the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was missing. From this point of view, I can only ask the Foreign Ministers to give this opinion quickly, because it really burns, the situation is very hot. That is, as a whole, a total of 125 000 jobs. It is very urgent to pass this petition on from the Committee to the relevant specialist bodies or other bodies in order to protect 125 000 jobs in Austria by means of measures we can put in place in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24869	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24893	Thank you very much, Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! First of all, I have the citizens' initiative No. 98. This is the subject of “self-ruled instead of foreignly dominated! Against sexual harassment and inequality of women at Austrian universities’. Signatorys call for a women's office at each university and university, then for the handling of the issue of sexual harassment in the equal treatment working groups and the introduction of a working group on equal treatment issues at all universities. We have received various opinions on this, and there is a need for discussion, because the different universities, universities and colleges have different institutions and are partly not public-law bodies, but private bodies that manage themselves autonomously. That is why we have forwarded the petition to the Scientific Committee in order to discuss these things. I may comment briefly on a petition which is very important to me personally and which I was allowed to bring in. It is about the construction of the Tschirgant tunnel in the Tyrolean Oberland. This tunnel is of immense importance to us and to the whole upper country. I am very grateful that the signed mayors, economic operators, citizens and citizens have given me the mandate to represent this issue. There are many arguments for the construction of this tunnel. This begins with the discharge of residents, goes over less emissions to landscape protection, and of course it is also about economic interests, especially tourism, but also the businesses that are located in us. I hope that I will have an opportunity to present them in detail. Unfortunately, there is no time for this today, but I am looking forward to a detailed discussion on this subject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24931	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24954	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to comment on the citizens’ initiative “Helping facts!” and to move forward that I do not think it is an ideological discussion. For me it is a discussion that needs to be put forward, above all, a question, namely: What is best to protect against abortion? – The answer can only be: It is best to protect against an unwanted pregnancy. Then I ask the next question: How best to protect yourself from unwanted pregnancy? - By contravening. I think that's the answer to the question. Therefore, the approach in this debate must be in my view, and also in the opinion of the Socialist Group: Prevention and sexual education. She has to be invested in, and one has to discuss it and, as Mr Bayr has already said, think about free means of contraception. Otherwise, it will always be the fact that women have to deal with this difficult situation for them, have an unwanted pregnancy and have to ask themselves this question: Abortion of pregnancy, yes or no? The motives, which I am convinced of, are sufficiently researched. There are six studies in Austria from which one can see which motives there are. The opinions point out – and this has already been mentioned today – that the current legal situation in Austria is making it very difficult to obtain valid data. Above all, because not all federal states are experiencing abortions, which are not free of charge, they are carried out in public hospitals and in private hospitals. Therefore, the survey is very difficult so that no valid data can be expected from a statistics. Our position is therefore quite clear: Information and prevention, as I have already said, as well as, possibly, free means of prevention, clearly have priority over statistical surveys, which, in our view, cannot really help a single woman in her difficult situation in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e24987	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a country with many possibilities to introduce a real energy transition: It is equipped with water, wind, sun – it shines everywhere in Austria – biomass and a very high forest content. That is why, I believe, it is an hour's commandment not only to talk about a change of energy, but finally to act accordingly. We know today, for example, that it takes longer to shut down a nuclear power plant than to build a new one. Bayern, for example, decided to shut down three nuclear power plants. However, they have a problem: You don't know where 14 percent radioactive waste is going. - Where do we store that? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are always talking about climate change, even here in the House. We refer to its effects: Dürrekatastrophications and floods associated with migration, storm disaster – flood has already been mentioned. We must therefore not only call for careful use of energy and resources here in the House, but also for policy to introduce the energy transition by creating a framework for it. This can, for example, be an environmental tax reform, which is the first thing to do with the use of domestic potential – as mentioned: Wind, solar, biomass – creating work, second, making a significant contribution to reducing CO2 emissions by protecting the environment, thirdly, in times like those where wars take place and we do not know what is coming from America – also contribute to security and independent energy supply in that country. That is why I am glad that we can show good examples. For example, just these days and weeks, it is funny to be built in Carinthia, Klagenfurt, one of the most modern biomass heating plants for €70 million, financed by a private industrialist, Cornelius Groep. He says: I'm making this city CO2-free. I was in Stockholm now and have mentioned it today: There, 90 percent of the energy is generated from biomass, including biogas. This city with biogas plants is thinking about how waste disposal systems can be developed for the city as well. [[Call the Greens: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore called upon not only to speak here in the House, but also to act and, for example, not to abandon biogas operators, not to invest them in the regions, but to say: Invested! Let's make this country CO2-neutral! Let us do something for jobs in the regions! For example, let us do something in the South Styria so that the pig industry can cope with tourism by making it odorless! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We watch, we move and do not have the courage to make appropriate decisions. So we will not be able to introduce the energy transition, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25048	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25070	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the petition number 67 in my remarks: “More financial policies for the Burgenland”. I brought this petition myself. The Financial Police is a professional anti-fraud unit to protect workers from unfair competition, social fraud and against wage and social dumping. Since the opening of the labour market in 2011, it has been mainly the construction and construction sector, especially here in Austria and especially in Burgenland, which have been under pressure accordingly. The petition demands that there be an increase of the financial politicians in the Burgenland to 50 staff. I would like to thank the Federal Chamber of Labour and, in part, the Economic Chamber for its opinion. At the federal level – at least by the Chamber of Workers – it was demanded that there be an increase of 500 to 1,000 full-time equivalents. That's also very interesting. The novelle on the construction worker's holiday and handling law has made it possible to increase the control bodies of the building workers' holiday and handling bank. Furthermore, the wage and social dumping law in force at 1.1.2017 also provides that both, Social Ministers and Finance Ministers, It is important to present a monitoring plan on the human resources and increase of the financial police. I would like to thank our social spokesperson Beppo Muchich for this. So the petition has achieved at least a partial success. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25112	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Smoking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25133	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions – and I believe this is becoming more and more evident – simply shows the moods. He is a voice seismograph for what is being discussed in the population and which concerns often come from the mayors. I believe that these petitions are also very clearly recognized which orders we should put into practice in Parliament. I would like to refer briefly to Mr Preiner, who mentioned the petition in which it is about getting more financial politicians for the Burgenland. We all know that control is good, but I think it must be stressed once that Austrian entrepreneurs are really working clean. Of course, it needs control in certain areas. It is true, however, that from the system of course, it is no longer possible to demand 50 financial politicians for the Burgenland anymore, because the financial police is a federal institution, but one can certainly put priority actions to ensure that some control measures are put in place. What is striking in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: We have a lot of petitions from the transport sector. I would like to remind you once again of the initiative on the Tschirgant Tunnel, and I would also like to support Mr Pfurtscheller. I believe that this is a really important project to relieve the population there – in the health field, but also from the point of view of traffic pollution. Colleague Gartelgruber is also fighting for a similar important project – apologies, of course Schimanek, apologies! – which is about the problem of vignettes in our joint district of Kufstein. [[Abg. Schimanek: Schimanek!]] There is also the burden on the population at the border. I think such petitions make sense because you just get a sense of where the people of the shoe press. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25168	The next speaker is Mr Hechtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25189	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I would also like to say very briefly to the collective report that 35 agenda items have been dealt with. Three points of this have been concerned with the quiet living. These three points have been included in the collection report at 100 percent. I would perhaps like to focus very briefly on these three citizens' initiatives, which have dealt with the subject of housing. It was the big issue today in the current hour, and with this discussion here in plenary we have once again given great importance to the subject of quiet living. The Citizens' Initiative No. 97 requests: "Cypsumers live now! Young living must be affordable!" In this case, claims were made for a space charge, after which broker fees were to be borne only by the landlord, and after the purpose of promoting housing. The Citizen Initiative No. 105 claims: “With the broker commission for tenants!” The Citizens' Initiative No. 110 also deals with this issue: “Only who is commissioned pays – orderer principle for real estate broker commissions”, so that only those who give the order to pay for real estate broker fees have to pay. Lumberly living, living in general is very present in media coverage. I refer to an issue in which it can be read that, for example, in Lower Austria, rents have increased by more than 25 percent since 2008. In comparison, wages have stagnated. This means, of course, that percentages of the family income must be spent more on living and fewer resources are available for consumption. The Federal Government has also set out a number of points in the work programme to enable us to live in the future, such as the possibility of a community having the possibility to grant a building right that rooms are also made available for social housing. Ladies and gentlemen, living is a basic need for us. Leastable living is one of the fundamental rights for us. We stand to do so, representing it, and we also fight to ensure that quiet living is not a luxury.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25229	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25250	Mr President. High house! I refer, on the one hand, to the citizens’ initiative “Helping facts!” and, on the other hand, to the petition I have brought in, which is concerned with finally implementing the anonymous collection of abortions in Austria. You might now ask yourself: Why does he bring in another petition if there is already the citizens’ initiative “Help facts!”? – It's easy: I'm someone who likes to confess, and I think I'm going to be against abortion. I am also in favour of the time-limit in Austria. However, I would like to have a valid anonymised statistics, both from a medical point of view and from the point of view of a Member, a father and an Austrian citizen. Why this is so important, I can tell you in a few words; it has already been said a lot by my previous speakers today. I think it is very important that we can only talk about things if we have clear facts and figures on the table. You can't talk about something that's running somewhere in the dark. I think this is a big problem, both political and medical as well as ethical. I think we must finally get through with clear facts, clear figures and finally bring light into this dark. We only have estimates. They are moving between 30 000 and 80 000 abortions a year in Austria. I think this is a highly problematic overall situation. I also think that the argument that is being put on the socialist side is so much like putting pressure on women, because the very opposite is the case. If I consider women today to be an information which primarily concerns only women, then I am not for women, but actually against women's masculinity. Throughout Europe, it is usus to have statistics. Portugal and we are the only countries that do not allow women to know exactly what is going on. I think you should turn this over in the argumentation and light it from this direction. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also interesting that the social democratic countries in Europe were the first to introduce these statistics. And I must also contradict you, Mrs Gamov – Gamon, Excuse me – of course, statistics produce something. [[Calls:Gamon]] Statistics create awareness. We have the so-called service-oriented health care fund in medicine. Every minimum intervention is recorded throughout Austria. In the ordinations all doctors are stopped to take all the interventions, all the medications they order, statistically. What we don't know is the number of abortions – a big medical problem, too, because: They always come with the demand for quality control and for the safety of women undergoing the procedure. But I have to know very well how many interventions there are and where they are made, otherwise I can't talk about it at all. I can't even talk about one thing I don't even know how often it happens. I also consider the speeding up of the demand for comprehensive abortion with the concession to respond to the demand for anonymous statistics to be highly problematic. This is what the SPÖ of my knowledge always requires of the ÖVP: There is only one statistics when the ÖVP finally agrees that all public institutions, all of Austria's public hospitals, can take place free of charge. - That's unscrupulous, that's not all right. We have to roll things apart and finally get through to say what's going on. We need to know how many abortions a year are taking place in Austria. With the same logic of reasoning that this is not reasonable and that women are being put under pressure and emotional things are happening, I can also abolish the death statistics and say that it is not reasonable to raise how many people in Austria die. That's the same logic. Please do not be angry with me, you cannot argue in a modern state, especially since all other European countries have such statistics, and there are also clear indications – once again a contradiction, Mrs Colleague, from Germany – that the figures have fallen by recording abortions! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that these are in total more than enough arguments to finally bring light into the dark and finally raise these numbers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25287	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[21:04:16]] We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1576 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 67, 75, 94 and 102 and the citizens' initiatives 69, 98 and 99, 105 and 110. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:04:57]] 26. Point First reading: Request by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act – B-VG, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (2027/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25341	We're coming to 26. Agenda item, We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25368	Thank you, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Just because the saying: Due to damage, one is wise!, for some political leaders, starting from local politics to the Federal Government, unfortunately often not or only very rarely, the legislator is required to take precautions so as not to cause serious damage to the communities by means of mild or even illegal management. A decisive and correct step is to extend the Court's audit competence to those communities which have experienced a significant reduction in reserves. Why this is so, I would like to explain briefly on the example of the municipality of Hartberg. In September 2005 the municipal savings bank and Sparkassen AG were sold to Steiermärkische Bank. For a community that had estimated a budget of €25 million in 2016, the proceeds of €64 million was a real profit. But at the same time the foundation was laid for a legendary tax scandal. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to show the abuses in detail now, but I find there an analysis of the “standard” of the 12th century. July 2016 very significant, which shows how easily the money of the Hartbergers has been handled. After the sale of the Sparkasse, there was a real boom in construction work in Hartberg: Roads were renovated, large objects were drawn. [[Call: For God's sake]] And instead of putting the money on the high edge or making sense, one has speculated, with highly unsafe papers on the Virgin Islands. And despite the apparent shortcomings that have already appeared in 2014 – since the pot was empty, of the 64 million has not been left, there was even a minus of €1.2 million – the state government as the supervisory authority did not see until 2016 the need to examine this community. Shortly after the start of the examination, the mayor of Hartberg has felt an unanticipated interest in pensions and has been lightning-like. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Understand!]] - Understandably, yes. ==References== January 2017, and the report was tough: 61 abuses have been identified, and the Hartberg city government has thrown almost all the legal principles overboard. The equipment of Hartberg, which can be said, was really guided by a chaos team. The responsible speaker Michael Schickhofer said: I'm shaken. The principles of local policy have been resolved here. What is of course not true in Hartberg. – The report immediately goes to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's the stand now. Only one thing I have to say: Mr. Michael Schickhofer must have had this insight before when his red communities pleaded. I think only of Fohnsdorf, Hart near Graz and so on – so so much about it. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because we have to learn from mistakes, it is now urgently necessary to supplement the federal constitution in the sense of the request and to extend the auditing competence of the Court of Auditors with regard to the municipalities which have been...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25407	Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the speaking time of your group has been exhausted, and I therefore ask you to reach the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25423	Final sentence:... which act ineffectively, unreasonablely and ineffectively through high once-in-a-life proceeds. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25450	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25471	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We too have become aware by the media of this case of Hartberg, who has indeed led to this request by the liberals, and I have also read the versatile request in detail. In fact, it is hard to see what things happened and what test deficits there have been. I share these criticisms only for clarification. By the way, because there was an attempt to mention only the SPÖ site: It wasn't like that again, was it? The ÖVP has not been mentioned by you at all, but the Schickhofer and some red community, but it was an ÖVP-led community in which this happened. This was an acute failure to examine, which is not a question at all – the community's own examination has failed, the national audit has failed – but I believe that it is not possible to say in any of these cases that we are now simply changing the Constitution and still attaching it to the Court of Auditors. We are currently holding – Mr Zanger is unfortunately not here – intensive debates on what we can still do in the field of auditing of the Court of Auditors. That's what we want to do. I believe that this would be a classical occasion, and we also have the opportunity to discuss it with the new President of the Court of Auditors, who used to be President of the Styrian Court of Auditors. From our point of view, this was a classic case for the national accounting court. The national accounting court has the overview and the possibility of taking action in advance in such matters, and I think we should talk to the President of the Court of Auditors about what can be improved at national level so that such things can no longer happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25506	Next item is the report by Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25527	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Yes, the occasion is the sale of the community-owned savings bank in Hartberg, and of course it is bad what happened there, but I would like to say one thing: FPÖ wants to change the fact that small communities with less than 10,000 inhabitants can be examined at the request of the state government and the land day – not only when there are high debts, but also when deposits are resolved very quickly. We have already conducted a precise discourse in 2009 and have expanded the competence of the Court of Auditors. I believe that even by an additional test in the resolution of such deposits, such things cannot be prevented. I would like to point out that the audit competences at municipal level are already a very narrow network. I would just like to refer to the municipal examinations, to the land day examinations or also to the ICS, very time- and resource-consuming stories. It is always said that the administration or bureaucracy should be reduced, but everything should be checked to 100 percent. I am of course also in favour of information. Of course, these things are not good, and as the mayor of a small community, you know for yourself that, of course, special attention has to be paid to them, but I think we still have enough time to discuss them in the Constitutional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25567	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25588	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we are discussing the extension of the Court of Auditors' powers to examine communities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, at least on 20 June. Let's go. And unfortunately, there is not only the Hartberg case, I can also mention two Austrian examples, where communities – one of St. Wolfgang, Salzkammergut, the other of the Free City – took out things that were hair-removing. This is about grey areas where the mayor did not observe the construction supervision at all, where everything was possible. There were other problems in Freistadt again, as test results have been rewritten, and I think it would be necessary now, not a 21. or a 26. Let us discuss this proposal, which comes directly from the Court of Auditors, but let us simply decide on the power of examination, and the matter is, because it is better to control it in the sense of taxpayers than there are these – yes, how to say? – inadequate control status in various municipalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25615	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 2027/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:15:56]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25649	I announce that in today's session, self-employed applications have been submitted by 2063/A(E) to 2095/A(E). Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e25667	I would also like to say that, in connection with the self-employed application 2087/A, the Court of Auditors has carried out a special act concerning the review of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors. a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 9 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
