ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2446	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 5. Meeting of the National Council. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 2. Meeting and the official protocols of the 3rd and 4ths. Meeting of 13. In December 2017, the Parliament's management was unable to raise any objections. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Grünberg, Ecker, Friedl, Katzian, Hafenecker and Dr.in Belakovich. [[13:06:07]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2480	I announce that Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger, at the end of 17. In December 2017, the President of the National Council refused to hold the office of President of the National Council. I also announce that the Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies Maximilian Krauss, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Herbert Kickl and DDr. Hubert Fuchs waived their mandates. In place of Mr Norbert Hofer, Mr Christian Ries, instead of Mr Herbert KicklHerr Alois Kainz, and instead of Mr DDr. Hubert Fuchs appointed Ms Ricarda Berger to the National Council. The mandate of Mr Maximilian Krauss was given to Mr Petra Steger and their mandate to Mr Mag. Johann Gudenus. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula and calling for a name through the writing, the new mandates will make their fishing observation with the words “I vow”. I'm looking for the writer, Mrs Mag. Michaela Steinacker to read the vow formula and the name call and ask you to rise from the squares. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2579	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2609	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[13:08:41]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2637	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 18. The Federal Government responsible for continuing the administration and the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery of the Federal Republic of Germany [...] has taken up the office.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of this opportunity, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Core as well as the outgoing members of the Austrian Federal Government sincerely thank you for your work in the service of our Republic. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] There is also a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the new Federal Government: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 18. In accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, [...] I was appointed Federal Chancellor. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has on my proposal Heinz-Christian STRACHE as Vice chancellor Dr Karin KNEISSL on the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs May. Beate HARTINGER as Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection University Professor Dr Heinz FASSMANN as Federal Minister for Education May. Dr Juliane BOGNER-STRAUSS on the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Hartwig LÖGER as Federal Minister for Finance Herbert KICKL as Federal Minister for the Interior Dr Josef MOSER on the Federal Minister for Justice Mario KUNASEK as Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Elisabeth KÖSTINGER as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Ing. Norbert HOFER on the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Dr Margarete SCHRAMBÖCK on the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy and in accordance with Article 70(1), in conjunction with Article 78(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act May. Gernot BLUMEL appointed Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, under Article 70(1), the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has power in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act. Karoline EDTSTADLER appointed as Secretary of State and to assist in the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for the Interior, respectively. MMag. DDr. Hubert FUCHS appointed State Secretary and assigned him to the Federal Minister of Finance for the support of the Management and Parliamentary Representation. In addition, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has Mag. Beate HARTINGER as referred to in Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 77(4) Federal Constitutional Act with the management of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women.” I wish all the new members of the Austrian Federal Government the best success and good for their work in the service of the Republic. [[General condolences.]] [[13:12:52]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2748	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2849	I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 2 p.m. to 2 p.m. and between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Furthermore, a live- with effect from 7.30 p.m. for the ‘ZIB 1’. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting from 2 p.m., and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. I would also point out that during today's National Council meeting, photographers will photograph the homepage on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate. There is a statement on the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Klubobmann Schieder.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2888	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of my speech on business, I refer to Agenda items 3 and 4, which are the reports of the Constitutional Committee or the Budget Committee. First of all, I should like to quote the former President Khol, whom I would like to warmly welcome: Speed kills! – This should be the problem here. The amendment, which was discussed yesterday in the Constitutional Committee, was sent to the political groups and thus to the Members of this House only 5 hours before the meeting. Usually, such a request is sent 24 hours before the meeting. This is not a problem either, because there are serious questions to be resolved in it. Among other things, it is to be clarified whether, for example, the fact that the right of information, which is granted to the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor in relation to the investigations and files of the intelligence services, is created here by simple legal regulations, is not contrary to the provisions relating to secret services which have to be created by a majority of two-thirds. It also raises the question of how the Secretary-Generals, who are to be installed, are related to the other structure of the federal government, the tender criteria and the like. We were not able to get sufficient advice and expertise in this short period of time. The same applies, by the way, to the proposed government spokesperson and to the established competences of a Federal Security Council, which we do not know at all and for which there is no legal basis. In addition, I can say that at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the issues had to be discussed against the background of the fact that the presentation was extremely narrow. This is the budget proposal, and it has even happened that several variants had to be presented in the Committee because there were no faultless copies and drafts of this amendment. That already shows that this short period of time is leading to extreme errors, and that is bad. Just before the beginning of the sitting, about 45 minutes ago, an amendment to the Constitutional Committee's proposals was again tabled, which in turn deals not only with superficial issues but also with serious issues of content. Madam President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen in the House! This makes it impossible for Members to do a serious job. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Send a request to the Rules of Procedure!]] I think that's not in the sense of a serious referral. I think this is bad, and we will therefore also make a referral request for the two negotiating items at the appropriate item on the agenda, because serious consideration of these matters, which are still often subject to constitutional law, should already be ensured here in the House. Unfortunately, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2948	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e2972	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For one thing, this was only partly a word on business management; it was also a content debate that did not belong here. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Time limits were set at the last plenary session on two requests. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Rules of Procedure!]] We have tried very hard to ensure that committee meetings were held last night, namely the Constitutional Committee and the Budget Committee. The whole weekend, until yesterday afternoon, worked intensively on the amendments – on the one hand, to the Federal Ministry Act and on the other to the Budget Provisorium. We then sent this to all the political groups in the afternoon, and both committees were held in parallel at 6 p.m. These proposals are now in the House, and we propose that today, after a debate, they can be voted on. We see no reason to refer them back to committee. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important to us that this new federal government can take up its work immediately. This is only possible if these two laws are adopted today in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3013	Further word on business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3037	Madam President. High house! Speed kills – well, I think in Austria: Schlendrian kills. There is an urgent need for serious reform measures here in Austria. The craftsmanship for this will be decided today during this meeting. In itself, it was not necessary to speak, I did not hear a single proposal for a Rules of Procedure, which Clubobmann Schieder would have brought here – but only to inform the listeners, the listeners at home a little: In reality, it's theatre donners and not anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3065	We are still in the debate on business treatment. Reported as follows: Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3089	Madam President. Mr Rosenkranz's statements now say a few words when he notes that it is theatre donors that we are right, as Klubobmann Schieder said, to insist on a serious discussion in this House and to receive a amendment, which is, of course, comprehensive, five hours before a committee meeting. Although we were able to discuss this request in the committee, it must be said that the committee meeting was only because the chairman of the Constitutional Committee called it. The original intention of the government parties was that there was no committee meeting at all and we can only hold the debate here in plenary. [[Call the SPÖ: So it is!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Who says that?]] That is why I think this idea is more than right and I expect that it will not happen that way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3136	There is a further word for business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kolba.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3160	I can say on this question, which we are currently discussing, that I am new to this Parliament, and I hear for the first time that the budget provisorium and, in particular, the Federal Ministry's law must be decided very quickly, without even being able to examine these laws so that the government can work. [[Call the ÖVP:Go!]] So in my opinion, this is a procedure that I am saying, there is a lack of parliamentary treatment if you get the templates so that you can't even read them again. I therefore support the request made by the honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3208	Ladies and gentlemen! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It is true that the Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility of speaking on the occasion of a national Council meeting and also on all parliamentary deliberations, and this has now taken place in this form. There is no request for the vote because no request was made, but this debate on the Rules of Procedure was, of course, permitted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3226	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3251	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 148, SPÖ and FPÖ each 132, NEOS and list mushroom per 44 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:22:38]] 1. Point Election of the President/President and the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3292	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There are written constituencies, which I announce: The proposal for the President of the National Council is put to Member Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka. For the election of the Third President, there is a proposal for an election by Member Anneliese Kitzmüller. In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Andreas Schieder. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3359	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Dear viewers in front of the televisions! We are now holding a debate on the election of new Presidents, namely the President and the Third President of the National Council, which has become necessary. This usually takes place only at the beginning of the legislative period. At that time, we have already discussed a question intensively, namely: How do you do with the office? The crucial question we asked at the time was: Is the candidate, is the nomination for the President's office, first of all, in the sense that one wants to exercise this office permanently, and secondly, of course, does it mean seriously in the sense of the official understanding? Today, in the 5. Meeting of the National Council, we have to elect a President again, because the President's office has now become something like a parking lot or a routing station for political functions at the new ÖVP. This is a pity because this office is one of the central offices of our Republic. This also has nothing to do with the elected President, nor does it have anything personally to do with Mr Sobotka, who is now running for this office, but it is not in itself good for the reputation of this House if party chairmen take account of the award of this office more of their internal needs than the well-being of this House, democracy and Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to stress much more what is needed for us from the Socialist Group of Parliament, whether we are government groups or opposition groups, which is and should be self-understanding in dealing with each other here in the house, because it is about the following: Parliament is ultimately the representative of the Sovereign, it is the legislator. It is therefore also a matter of ensuring as much transparency as possible and comprehensive information as possible and of maintaining fair dealings with each other. And just what we have experienced since the constitutional meeting of the government groups ÖVP and FPÖ is unfortunately not a good deal with the House, with Parliament and therefore also not a good service to a living democracy. Obviously, serious democracy is only a headline in your government programme, but not a reality, because it is also a matter of sending legislation in time, just as we discussed it before, so that it can be examined. Yes, even in the past, this 24-hour frest has not always been respected by everyone, but it has still been the case for serious, very serious projects in which constitutional matrices were affected. This has never been done before, that a Federal Ministry Act has been impelled with deadlines, where something has been set in time, of which one has not yet known what one will set in time, but essentially, it is already temporary, because the amendment proposal comes here afterwards, and then today, in the short term, not even an hour before the meeting, another amendment to the amendment is submitted. This is my request to those two people who have now been nominated by ÖVP and FPÖ, regardless of whether we will vote or not; the formation of opinions in the club has gone on to say that precisely because of the previous experience of both people, we have great doubts for different reasons – that exactly this fair approach will be taken in the future. This is not just a great request, it is a demand – the demand for a living democracy and a living Parliament; I want to stick to that demand. As has already been said: Our group has great scepticism about the two people to be elected, which should also be possible. At the same time, I would like to say clearly: The use here in the House – and we hold on to it – is that, of course, it is the strongest group in the House to nominate someone for the President's office, and that this person should also take over this function, as well as for the second strongest and third strongest political group. I would also like to say that quite clearly, because it is also important to me and our group that we stick to the rules that we have lived in the past in the future. We have a little doubt that there is now a little bit of a speed-kill sling. I hope that, together, you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, we will also be starting this speed-kill course as soon as possible and that you will be living a modern, open parliamentaryism in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3412	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann August Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3437	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! It is my concern to congratulate all the new Members very warmly on fishing. I would also like to thank the retired members of the Federal Government, especially for their work in recent years. It also belongs to the parliamentary use of saying thank you for their activity and the good work done by some members of the government, who now also belong to this House, – a warm thank you! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] On Monday, a new federal government with Sebastian Kurz as Federal Chancellor and Heinz-Christian Strache were praised as Vice Chancellor. The former president of the National Council Elisabeth Köstinger and the third president of the National Council Norbert Hofer are now part of this new federal government. That is why it is necessary for us to vote today for a new President and a new Third President. Before I come to the election proposals, however, it is also my concern to thank these two personalities for their work here in the National Council Presidency and to wish them all the best for the forthcoming important task in the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We propose Wolfgang Sobotka for the election as President. I have known Wolfgang Sobotka well for many years personally, we also maintain a very good friendship. He is an experienced, competent and above all also committed politician with an extremely broad expertise and therefore predestined for the office of the National Council President. This also shows his political career. He started in 1982 as a municipal councillor in Waidhofen an der Ybbs. He has performed this function for ten years. Anyone who has once worked in municipal politics or is still there – even I am still lucky that I may be councillor in an 800-inhabitant community – knows that such people have the ear to the people and know exactly how the people think and what they expect from politics. Wolfgang Sobotka was the city councillor, for two years also mayor in Waidhofen on the Ybbs – Ybbs, is that what it means? – he then came to the Lower Austrian state government, became head of state and served for a total of 18 years in the Lower Austrian state government. [[the Y as a pronunciation]] [[Call the SPÖ – where the Y is pronounced as I –:Ybbs!]] [[Abg. Drozda: Calls Libya too!]] And for the last one and a half years, until last Monday, he worked as Minister of the Interior. So he has gone through all the levels – from municipal policy to national policy to federal politics as a minister and now here to the High House. Wolfgang Sobotka also has a remarkable educational path to show. He is a historian, he has also studied music at the Bruckner Conservatory, namely conducting. He is a musical person, but he also knows how to lead the clockstock – and that is necessary, also for a national council president. He is above all the binding. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] He has shown this during the government negotiations when he has also acted as a country coordinator. He has been in contact with all the political groups in this House in the last few days, he has presented himself and has also presented himself. This, I believe, is also an important signal and an important sign that the political groups are being discussed here. All in all, Wolfgang Sobotka is a very good candidate for the President's office, and that is why I am also seeking the support of all the political groups for this election proposal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I would also like to say a few words to Anneliese Kitzmüller about the candidate for the Third President's office. We support this election proposal not only because it is a use of this House, but also because we believe that Anneliese Kitzmüller is suitable for this function. She has been a member of the National Council since 2008. It is strongly anchored in its home state Oberösterreich, in the Mühlviertel. It has also been active in the parish council of Kirchschlag for many, many years. It is also strongly rooted and rooted in national and regional policy. We have now met more closely when negotiating in the family subgroup. We have known each other for a long time, but we have learned to appreciate even more, even in terms of content. We from the People's Party will support Anneliese Kitzmüller in the election as the Third President of the National Council. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen – Mr Klubobmann Schieder has also mentioned this – I would like to ask that the use that has been maintained in this House for many years, namely that the strongest group will continue to comply with the President, the second strongest group, the second president and the third strongest group, the third president. This is also a state-political responsibility, because it is only possible, no matter how a federal government makes up itself, that this use will continue to be respected. Otherwise, it would not have been possible for Madam President Bures, who thanked me for taking over the top position in the presidency in the last few days, to be the second President to have a majority here in the House. This would not be possible if the representatives of the government groups voted only for their candidates and the members of the opposition against the candidates of the government groups. That is why my final appeal is that the use of the High House, which has been very well maintained for many years here, is also applied in this election for Wolfgang Sobotka and for Anneliese Kitzmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3545	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3566	Madam President. A self-confident Parliament elects a self-confident national council presidium. That is exactly what we could have done six weeks ago. Unfortunately, it did not happen. Six weeks ago, we elected Elisabeth Köstinger to the President of the National Council. On the question at the time, Mrs Federal Minister, if you want to remain President of the National Council, you said: Of course, otherwise I wouldn't have made my choice. Now, six weeks later, we know what we can think of it. That is obviously this new style the ÖVP is always talking about. They have managed to become the shortest serving President of the National Council since the establishment of the National Council in 1920. You have been elected to the second most important office of the state and have decided after 39 days that you will leave it again. In my opinion, respect for Parliament has come at a low point. You have damaged the office of President of the National Council. They have made the National Council Bureau a routing station for arbitrary moving and relocating people. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] And the new Federal Chancellor has shown us that he also puts Parliament's reputation at stake for his power-political games. It is no longer just a question of having a federal chancellor who, as he once told us, does not disturb us when Parliament works, it is about us having a Federal Chancellor since Monday, who makes his post chess at the expense of the second most important office in the state. I say something to you, Federal Chancellor: As a Member of this House, I will be fighting this contempt, this contempt for Parliament in the next few years whenever it is possible to do so in any way, with bitter resistance. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We're not Your attachment, we're not something you can just drive over when it's popular to you. We are the legislative state power and not the extended workbench of the Federal Government. The previous statement is of course also true of Federal Minister Hofer, who could also be elected as an intermediate parking lot before taking office as Minister at the National Council Bureau. It is precisely this procedure that is also one that we reject in relation to FPÖ. Today, there are two constituencies for the Presidents of the National Council, Anneliese Kitzmüller of the FPÖ, Wolfgang Sobotka of the ÖVP, who has never been part of a legislative body, which in our view is also problematic. As a positive point, I must say that Mr Sobotka was looking for a conversation with us in the run-up to the election. You have to emphasize this positively. If you have spoken about the use here in the house, Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, I would like to reply: Of course, we respect the use that the strongest political group represents the President of the National Council, and so on and so on. If you're talking about the use here in the house, but at the same time you've just shown in the last few days how to deal with the use, that you're sending amendments 24 hours before, as we discussed earlier, then it'll be a little difficult: On the one hand, this use is called upon, and on the other hand, it is in reality entirely a fanciful blow on other uses. [[Congratulation with NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] The main question is whether you, as a Member of this House, want to take part in this unworthy play, especially as Members of the Government. It's only you who have to decide. You have to decide for yourself whether you can be dictated by the Federal Chancellor and by the Deputy Chancellor who will be your president here in the house. We NEOS will do the same as six weeks ago: We will, according to the use of the House, elect someone from the strongest group, in this case Karlheinz Kopf, because we are convinced that he is the best qualified person for this office. [[Congratulation with NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] Whether you want to join this unworthy spectacle as a Member of the Government, you have to decide for yourself, and I wish you a lot of courage and a lot of self-confidence, because you will need this in the coming years. If you are interested in a self-confident Parliament, then you are opposed to this approach, you are opposed to this disdain, this disdain of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3657	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Walter Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3682	Madam President. High house! Anyone who has observed the leadership of Elisabeth Köstinger and Norbert Hofer can only show them one thing: an impeccable witness! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The office was carried out without error. [[Abg. Loacker:... within 39 days a witness!]] – If you have said this now because of the short period of time: I hope you've noticed, for example, that engineer Hofer has been exercising the office a little longer and not just for 39 days. What you are holding here is that two Members of this House had to know already several weeks ago whether they would be members of a federal government or not – at a time when government negotiations had begun, but when the result of whether a coalition between these two parties is actually coming was not yet possible, the less the party which then receives which ministries, and again the less, which persons then become ministers. I admire the NEOS and the Social Democracy: You obviously have someone in the Prater with a crystal ball, so you can already recognize all of this. [[Abg. Krainer:... Lower Austria!]] We don't have that. We have the possibility of serious negotiations, discussions and decisions, and not the gift of hell-seeing as you do. I congratulate you on this, but that's how your policy looks: Only to look into the crystal ball and draw conclusions from it, so that you will not transfer Austria a millimeter. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now to the candidates: The strongest party here in the house has made a proposal to Wolfgang Sobotka, one – and that will not dispute you from the opposition – experienced politicians. [[Abg. Jarolim: A cello player!]] [[Abg. Krainer: A speculant!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Jössas Maria!]] They will have recognized that he has worked on different levels in all functions and has really learned his craft as a politician. He also deserves to be elected to this function, at least the second highest protocol function in the Republic, and of course we will also support him, just as we as the opposition party always supported candidates of the Social Democracy, the People's Party and, yes, I would like to recall, the Greens, which at the time could have been fought – there was a parity of mandate – which is the third political group that can set up a National Council president. At the time, however, we said that these few hundred votes differed for us, of course, so that someone – then a candidate for the Greens – can be elected to this function. This is our understanding of the use of the National Council's political offices, and we want to maintain it consistently. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] So I repeat: We will support Wolfgang Sobotka and, of course, our own candidate from Upper Austria. Dear Anneliese Kitzmüller, you are a family politician, and I believe that this is also a sign for us liberals that we want to see in this function, in the National Council Presidency, someone who has a special heart for the families in this country, and it is also a corresponding political signal. We will support you as you will ensure that this High House, that this hort of democracy in the Republic of Austria will continue to function perfectly – for the good of democracy, for the good of the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3798	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Peter Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3823	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery and in front of the TV screens! We have so far met the former Minister of the Interior Sobotka in his ministry as someone who has operated Law-and-Order policy and so society, like hardly anyone else, has polarized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] With almost none of its contents, we have seen ourselves in agreement. On the other hand, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Sobotka sought the discussion in the run-up to today's election, and I took away from this conversation the hope that he would establish his new office in an equivalent equidistance to all parties and that the opposition in the case of decisions on parliamentary procedures would not be detrimental, but that the use of the Presidential Decisions in consensus would help to break through again. The question, however, is how the majority of ÖVP and FPÖ will make their overall approach to the opposition. The start-up in this Parliament was inconvenient and of little cooperation, characterized by an exaggeration of legislative proposals distributed just before the meeting. Therefore, for ex-minister Sobotka, there is an advance of distrust on the part of the Pilz list, but it can also be denied by concrete actions. A few words on Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller I don't know them personally, I only know media reports, which I take from her that she is active in German-national girls in which old-fashioned customs are lived, in which Christmas is not a feast that you celebrate, but the Germanic Julfest. [[Abg. Bösch: What do you have against women?]] [[Abg. Rosary: What do you have against women?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: freedom of expression, right?]] [[Abg. Gudenus:... To abolish Christmas, isn't it?]] This lack of demarcation against right-wing groups in this country means that we will certainly not elect them as the Third President of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3908	The next item is Mrs Gabriela Schwarz's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3932	High house! President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! He does what he says, and he says what he does. – So I have always observed Wolfgang Sobotka in my former profession as a journalist. As a cross-border beginner, but also as a decades-long observer of the parliamentary event in Austria, I have some demands. I expect from the one and the one who is in this office a clear line, clear words, a straight back and an open heart. This may sound a bit pathetic for one or the other of you, but that's the claim I make – and by the way I put it to all of us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] All this has Wolfgang Sobotka. Wolfgang Sobotka can, if it has to be, fight finely, but he also knows about the quality of silence in conflicts that do not bring exactly anything. He has not always made friends with this, but that is also part of the living democracy. I believe that in the course of his life and career, Wolfgang Sobotka has always proved, as August Wöginger did, that he is willing to learn to acquire skills, and that will undoubtedly do the same as Anneliese Kitzmüller in this office, and he has our full confidence in this. We should never lose each other's reverence, with which many of us came to this hall for the first time a few weeks ago, the honor of being praised to give our best to the Austrians, and I am convinced that Wolfgang Sobotka will also remind us of it on every occasion. As a historian, Wolfgang Sobotka knows the meaning of Austrian parliamentarianism, and it will be all the more important in the coming months and years. In crises – that's how I perceived him – he's a rock in the burn, but he's never going alone. When I talk about crises, I actually know what I'm talking about: I am a member of the crisis intervention in Burgenland and have experienced Wolfgang Sobotka in dealing with volunteers and volunteers. He has always given them the greatest appreciation and recognition, and I very much appreciate it for that. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] It has already been smiled by some of Wolfgang Sobotka's musical talent. I see this a little differently. Wolfgang Sobotka can do much good, and among other things he can also conduct well. This instrument, which is available to him here, is a very valuable one: It's Austria – that's all of us. I am convinced that there will be sometime slanting tones, but when it becomes atonal, Wolfgang Sobotka will get a firm grip on the conductor's staff. [[Abg. Rosary: It's up to you! It can also be an atonal piece!]] The orchestra he's dealing with could hardly be much more agreeable if I look at all of us. I am a advocate of harmony instead of disharmony, and I expect all of us to do so. I come from a very different corner, I have had time of my life with people, and they do not expect us to miss, but that we work for them and that as fast as possible. [[We welcome Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Kumpitsch.]] When I was asked if I would like to join the National Council, one of the few I asked for advice, Wolfgang Sobotka, because he was always a good adviser to me in his Pragmatism and in his rational approach to things. Thank you for that. Of course we support Anneliese Kitzmüller and Wolfgang Sobotka, and I am deeply convinced that both will do their best for this house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e3996	The next item is the speech by Mr Peter Wittmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4020	Madam President. High house! Firstly, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee, I should like to say a few words about the last days: I don't think it was a good idea to start this legislative period with parliamentary tricks. If you have a time limit, there are quite some in the parliamentary practices and procedures. But if that's what you're looking like, you're on 13th. The Constitutional Committee shall have a term of 15 December. In December, the Constitutional Committee is required by law to convene a committee meeting, which I have also done as an overseer, for the 14th century. However, if this date is prevented by the majority groups, it is no longer possible, as the chairman of a committee in this Parliament, to fulfil its legal obligations. [[I would like to congratulate SPÖ and NEOS as well as Members of the Pilz list.]] I believe the first time that this House is not worthy of action, and also that it is a complete break with all the uses that have been common in the form of government so far. They break through your majority with all uses. This is for you, but I think it is a strong piece if you then call on Usancen, and I also think it is almost impossible to accept how to deal with this House. Mrs Köstinger, this house is not a student house, you go into when you want to, and you get out of where you want to go again. [[Abg. New builder: Are you messing with the SPÖ central?]] They have exercised the second highest office in this Republic. When I remember President Fischer, President Khol, all the others: There was still a value for dignity and propriety – but this [[Abg. Little: What does he want to say with it now?]] The value is now only derived from event-political considerations with feet, because you need a new face, the really worthy, very, very neat man at the top, namely President Head, you scrambled off and put a young lady who didn't even want to stick to it. I think this is really unbearable in terms of the dignity of the house. [[I would like to congratulate SPÖ and NEOS as well as Members of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Rädler:... Faymann gone!]] Now we come to the people who have been proposed. I first come to the person of the former Minister of the Interior Sobotka. For the positive: I think he's a good musician. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's it. This has already exhausted what I think is positive about Mr Sobotka. [[Abg. Singer: That's not much!]] This is a man who in his past career, in his former political life, has only been noticed by polarization, whether it was in Lower Austria or as an interior minister, who has ultimately done nothing but polarize, only split, who has disavowed and ultimately filed his own party observer and who was responsible for the splitting of this coalition into the air, and then Mr. Klubobmann of the ÖVP, saying that Mr. Sobotka is binding – that is really the only thing he is not. [[Call the ÖVP:Just you have to...!]] [[Abg. Höbart: You have in Wiener Neustadt...!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Are you saving from core?]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Faymann, Kern!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] [[Abg. Rädler: We are not here with fun...!]] The second thing I would like to say: Now he's left with the Minister Rodeo, and because he's left, he's gonna be president here. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to remain as President! [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] This is not tolerable in terms of the dignity of this House, and I think it is impossible for someone who only polarizes, who has never sought to work together with him who has never tried to keep everyone in the boat, to finally select into a function in which exactly that would be the criteria by which one should choose. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is actually an order call!]] I am in favour of the use that the strongest party can propose to the President, but I do not think that Mr Sobotka is capable of human beings and totally incapable of exercising this office.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4245	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is a desire to make the election in election cells, so I will do the same. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the preparations for a vote, so I would ask you to listen to me. [[13:57:42]] Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4280	We will first make the election of the President of the National Council. There is a proposal for an election on power. Wolfgang Sobotka before. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be made secret to the President's election, with votes. I am now briefly interrupting the session in order to create the technical conditions for this election. The sitting was suspended for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4330	I'll start the interrupted session again. I ask Mr Wolfgang Zanger to stay ready. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The names of the delegates are now called in alphabetical order by the writing. In the event of a call for a name, please first go to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate – from me to the right next to the electoral cells – and announce your name. Afterwards, you will receive the poll that can be used, along with Kuvert. For the election, use only this official voting paper. In this case, the name of the desired candidate must be written. After completing the poll in the electoral cell, it must be thrown into the urn provided in the envelope. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Wolfgang Zanger, to start with the name call; it will then be yours, Mr Hermann Gahrablössen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4381	The vote is now over. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the written procedure. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4424	I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the election result: Members cast: 177; of which: 173. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 87. Mr Wolfgang Sobotka had 106 votes in favour. Mr Kopf has 65 votes in favour. Two votes were taken by other Members. Mr Wolfgang Sobotka was thus elected President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4495	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President Sobotka, before you accept the congratulations, I still have the task of asking you whether you accept this function.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4517	I thank you for your confidence and am very happy to accept this function.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4538	Mr President Sobotka, this is an important task for which you have now been elected; it is a matter of great responsibility. I wish you all the best for this new, so important task in our House and invite you to take the presidency. [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: The question is whether the music item is on!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] [[14:37:44]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4585	High house! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Dear guests here and at home in front of the televisions! Staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate! I would like to start my first speech as President of this House with a thank you – with a thank you to all those who have given me the confidence. It is a high responsibility and I am very, very aware of this responsibility. I will do everything I can to meet these high expectations that have been placed in me. But I also promise those who have not chosen me today that I will do everything I can to convince them that this office is one, that requires equidistance and that it also lives. And I am very grateful to all those who have done a great deal for the preparation of this meeting and also for my introduction: at the Parliamentary Directorate and all its employees, who were responsible for the really smooth course. Article 1 of our federal constitution – you all know it – states: Austria is a democratic republic. Right goes from the people. [[Members Noll and Zinggl: Your right!]] – Your right is based on the people. Thank you for the correction. – It contains in fact everything that represents the position, which is the essence of democracy and of Parliament. Parliament is the most prominent body in the Constitution. And I think that just as the opinions in the population are varied, the discussions are changing, so there are many different opinions here in our house, very diverse and very lively. I think that is a good thing, that is necessary to show a picture of this living parliamentaryism even on the outside. However, this living parliamentaryism belongs to what Parliament needs, namely to pass laws, to consult and discuss laws, and also in partnership with the Federal Government. This also includes the control of the Federal Government, and it will be necessary here in a fair cooperation for the state body to take responsibility and take it with it. The Presidents before me have always had a goal: to open up Parliament, to make Parliament a place of dialogue, to make Parliament a place of meeting for all citizens. I would like to continue and continue this, invite you to the dialogues with scientists and artists – with these two, because they often see developments much earlier than politics or others in society, anticipate developments and have a special sensitivity. The dialogue with art and science should also be quite essential for us. Dialogue with civil society is very important: Parliamentaryism is not only taking place here, but in the constituencies outside of the people. And people expect us to conduct this dialogue not only before elections, but permanently. Especially the Austrian Parliament, with its long tradition, has many opportunities to join the international field, in young democracies. Many parliamentarians have already done valuable work here in the past. Many parliamentarians have joined international organisations and associations. This should continue to be a very important task for us. It is, I believe, also very crucial that we address young people. With the democratic workshop, we have an ideal instrument to develop where the parliamentarians themselves, but also all those to whom this offer is addressed, are invited to participate and participate in this exchange of views, in this process. A large number of tasks are foreseen for the President by the Rules of Procedure in Sections 13 and 14. Central as well as the dignity of the House and the rights of the National Council are rightly mentioned in the first paragraph, because as such they are also the backbone of parliamentarism, but there are many statements that follow it and demand from the President of one – I have already emphasized this –: an equivalent to all in the leadership of this office. In the management of this office, it is irrelevant how strong factions are, how large or small, which ideological attitude they take. In Parliamentaryism, everyone has to work together in order to be equipped with the same opportunities for the same rights. I would also like to continue with the good use, together with President Bures and the President to be elected and with the club members, to define the Rules of Procedure, which is also intended for the President-in-Office as a accompanying advisory body. I think it is very important that there should be a basic consensus again and again. With three considerations, which are very, very important to me personally, I would also like to conclude. We already have and especially in 2018 a time in front of us, which we should see as a commemorative or also a thinking year. A few days ago, we celebrated the 150-year celebration of the basic state law. ==References== It was adopted in December 1867, and it is also the basis of today's parliamentaryism, even though he has experienced quite different times in history, and it is also important to stress this arch. We will immediately begin by celebrating the holocaust anniversary – and I am glad that Member Engelberg has already made many preparations and done preparatory work – this anniversary on the occasion of the anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp Auschwitz, here in Parliament. It is necessary to keep this chapter of our history in mind again and again also our young generations as something very far ahead of us in our responsibility. We will celebrate the commemorative days of March, 5th. March 1933 – that's 85 years ago – 12th and 13th. March 1938, this whole situation, where on one side of parliamentarism was eliminated, was prevented by police forces from reuniting Parliament, and where Austria disappeared from the map in 1938 and, last but not least, lost the peculiarity which could only be regained in 1945. Finally, the initiatives put forward for this commemorative year were based on the fact that the Federal Government commissioned the president, apart from Dr. Heinz Fischer, to make preparations for the 100-year celebrations, because 2018 in the arc of 1918 shows how modern democracy has developed, especially in the times of the 21st century. ==References== February 1919, in which succession of decisions the Provisional National Assembly decided to make an Austria out of this German-Austria, even though this was substantially influenced by the Treaties, in particular those of Saint Germain. But this Austria is our foundation, and we should be aware of that. With 100 years of women's rights – and Austria is to be seen first among the European countries – the year 2019 also has a very special anniversary to celebrate. I think it is good for us to celebrate this work of our predecessors with dignity and with due respect for the past and to do it in such a way that we can also do the job for the 21st century. ==References== The second thing I would like to address here is the image of the honourable Member. We have experienced it again and again in the discussion with the population: We need a correct picture of the honourable Member. Hardly anyone makes a sense of what a Member's daily schedule looks like, what work he is doing in the legislation, in the role as a representative of a government party, or also as a representative of an opposition party, how it takes place to make decisions, what opportunities it has to take, and not just to be present at celebrations, through the much small work, the high knowledge that is bundled in the 183 MPs, and which is finally brought in for the benefit and benefit of our entire population. Finally, it is also about working conditions, working conditions in this House, as far as human resources are concerned, as regards infrastructure, also in the current situation in the elusive quarter, and in particular readability of the laws. I believe that this is a very essential point: that we have flow texts in order to be able to accept quickly what is decided here and to form our opinion as well. That is why I invite everyone to co-exist, to discuss, to cooperate and to co-design. In this joint picture that we are about to give, all Austrians are allowed to be proud. Democracy is not given, democracy is one of the highest things to protect – on all issues. Some in the world can only dream of it. We should be aware of this and should keep in mind that it is therefore also necessary to revive this democracy through electoral participation, as well as through an honest and open discussion process. In this sense, I can encourage all of you to join together for the benefit of Austria. [[General condolences.]] [[14:49]] [[14:49:30]] Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4629	We now proceed to the election of the Third President or the Third President. There is an election proposal, which is on Anneliese Kitzmüller. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. In turn, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I now ask the author, Mr Wolfgang Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Hermann Gahr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4683	High house! The vote has now ended, and the members of our house who are responsible for it will make the vote. To that end, I can interrupt the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4723	I should like to resume the interrupted sitting and ask the honourable Members to take their seats. I can inform you of the results of the election: 176 votes were cast and 142 votes were valid. The absolute majority is 72 votes. On Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, 102 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 33 votes against against against. Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller is thus elected Third President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4788	I can ask the elect if she accepts the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4810	Thank you! I accept the choice and thank you for your confidence. I will try to gain the confidence of those who have not chosen me, too! – Thank you many times!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4831	I congratulate the new third President, Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, on the election. I can now ask Madam President Bures and Madam President Kitzmüller for a joint photo of me to the Bureau. [[The presidents Bures and Kitzmüller are going to the Bureau for a joint photo on President Sobotka.]] I warmly welcome Mr. Federal President Dr. Alexander Van der Bellenin of our midst. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[15:29:15]] 2. Point Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4882	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following the declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the present request. I give the floor to Mr Bundeskanzler Sebastian Kurz for the statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e4924	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. But especially dear Austrians! ==References== ==References== October, dear Austrians, you have made a direction decision. They have opted for change, for a new way and thus for new opportunities in our country. I would like to thank you again today for the great confidence we have in the 15th century. October was given, and I would like to thank you once again for giving us your voice. I promise you, we will be careful to deal with this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I would also like to take the opportunity today to look very cordially at Federal President Alexander To thank Van der Bellen for always being well-accompanied with the government negotiations of the last two months and being available with advice and action and there and there with suggestions, especially for giving us his confidence in the end. Thank you very much, Mr President! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But I would also like to thank the members of the former German Government for all those who have been responsible in Austria for the last four years, for all those who have contributed in the government. I would like to draw out Christian Kern and Wolfgang Brandstetter, representing all the other members of the Federal Government, and to say thank you for the professional handover that has taken place in the ministries over the last few days. – Thank you! [[It is a pleasure for ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as for SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Change creates hope. It sometimes also makes friction necessary. Change creates opportunities, and it also creates uncertainty in some places. Change is something that can always be different about, but change is nothing that can be stopped. The world has changed dramatically. Today we enter a completely new field with new players around the world, with new rules and above all with new speeds. In particular, globalisation, digitalisation and mobility have not only changed our Austria, they will also change our country more and more. As a Federal Government, we are therefore jointly pursuing a clear goal: We want to make a place at the top of this new field of Austria again. We want to create a comeback for Austria, which we can be proud of together and benefit everyone in our country. We believe in our Austria. We believe, above all, in the people of our country, and we believe that a positive future lies ahead of us. In the past, Austria and its people have repeatedly shown that we can often do more than we trust ourselves, and sometimes we have even proved that we can do more than we trust ourselves. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After 1945 our ancestors from the ruins of this Republic have rebuilt our country. In the 1970s, we succeeded in creating a social state to which we are envied all over the world. In the 2000s, we succeeded that in Germany many believed that Austria was the better Germany. At any time, it was not just politics, it was not just politicians who gave visions, presented goals and committed themselves and contributed, it was mainly the people in our country who made their contribution through hard work and who brought our country where it stands today. As a representative of the younger generation, I should like to say thank you today all those who have contributed in our history to the fact that we stand there as it is today. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] But above all, policy has the responsibility to make direction decisions, not to misrepresent them, and to do everything to ensure that development is a positive one in the future. Especially in recent years, developments in our country have not always been positive, and some decision has brought nothing good for our country. The refugee and migration crisis in particular has led to a negative development in the security situation, but also in Austria's co-existence. So we stand here today as the newly elected Federal Government and ask you, dear Austrians, above all for one, namely your confidence, to go this new path together with us. We look forward to this and we ask you to do so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As the Federal Chancellor, I would like to meet with a promise of confidence that we are asking you to do: I promise you that we as the Federal Government will not have ended our way until Austria is no better than today. We will do everything we can to take advantage of the opportunities offered to us and to counter them, especially in the event of misdevelopments. I promise you that we will not have ended our way before working people in Austria will not be able to live again. Therefore, our aim is to reduce the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent, so that the people who go to work are not the fools in our country. We have done our utmost, particularly in terms of low and medium-sized incomes. The first measure will be the discharge of the low-earners in our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, our path will not be over until our social systems are really safe again. We are seeking a change in minimum security in order to end injustices in the system. Our path will not be over until there is no more order and security in our country. Our clear objective is the proper protection of external borders at European level and the fight against illegal migration. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I also promise you that we will do everything we can to bring about a change in education, that young people will not be able to leave school until they can read, write and calculate properly, and not if they have left school. Only in this way can we ensure that young people also have all the opportunities in the labour market. And I promise you that we will do everything we can to be well prepared to make the most of the opportunities of digitalization for our country. We want to bring public administration into the digital age, and above all we want to focus on the introduction of 5G mobile phones. Ladies and gentlemen! We can do all of that, and we will do the same. As a basis for this, we have developed a government programme in the last two months, summarizing our ideas and ambitions on 180 pages. At this point, I would like to thank Heinz-Christian Strache and the Freedom Party for the constructive negotiations, because in addition to the visions, the goals and their own ideas, it also needs a partner to implement them. Thank you very much for the good negotiations and for coming to a conclusion together! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Every programme to be put to the ground needs, above all, one, namely, a team willing to do the job. Before Heinz-Christian Strache will present the Minister of the FPÖ, I would like to take the opportunity to introduce the ministers of the People's Party. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Can't they imagine themselves?- Oh, my God!]] Our team is a broad mix of experience in politics and experience in science and research and in the economy. It is a broad team of men and women, of young people and young people, a team ready to work for our country. With Elisabeth Köstinger, the House has lost a president today, but we as the Federal Government have won a strong minister. Elisabeth Köstinger will take over the sustainability and tourism sector, in which the environmental and energy agendas have been brought together for the first time. This means a great opportunity to really achieve our goals in the fight against climate change. – Dear Elisabeth, I look forward to working together! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With university professor Heinz Fässmann, we have won the former Vice-ector of the University of Vienna, a recognized scientist, the head of the Council of Experts for Integration and someone who is a very cautious person. I think you're bringing all the conditions to run this so important resort with a calm hand. For the first time, we have created a place where education is bundled from kindergarten to universities in a house to see the entire arch of education that we can offer in our country. – Thank you for your willingness to take over this task! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With Margarete Schramböck, we have been able to win an experienced manager from Austria, who has worked in many Austrian companies and, above all, has an extremely high level of expertise in digitization. For the first time, we are not only creating an economic, but above all a digital resort, with the aim of making the management more digital, but also with the aim of supporting the Austrian companies in the best possible way at this time of change. – Dear Margarete, thank you for your willingness! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Josef Moser is well-known in this House by his role as President of the Court of Auditors. All those responsible for government in the past, he has not always been positive, because he has always agreed to maintain a economical handling of the tax money, and has always been a driver of reform and change in our country. I am very pleased that you are ready to take over the Ministry of Constitution, Reform, Deregulation and Justice, and I am delighted to be able to introduce some necessary change with you in this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Hardwig Löger is someone who stands for reliability. He was Chairman of the Board of Management of Uniqa Austria and in the future is ready to take care of the Austrian tax money as Minister of Finance. One of the major goals of our Federal Government is to treat tax money in a economical way. – Thank you for your willingness! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Juliane Bogner-Strauß is not only a threefold mother, but above all also a successful university professor, and this is also the case at TU in Graz. She managed to go through a man's domain. – Thank you very much for the willingness to make a contribution as Minister for Women, Family and Youth in this Federal Government! [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] Gernot Blümel has gained political experience at regional, national and European level, and is familiar with the government business through its staff activity in Parliament, as well as in various government offices. It will not only exercise government coordination, but also take over the agendas for art and culture, media and European affairs. – Welcome to the team! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With Karoline Edtstadler, we have been able to win a successful lawyer who will contribute as State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. She is a senior attorney and was most recently active in the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. – Thank you very much for the willingness to strengthen this federal government! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a strong team with many different characters, but let me focus on one thing: From my point of view, the crucial question is not where a person comes from or in which areas he has worked so far, but whether a government is doing good work for the Austrians, whether a government can contribute positive things for people, for families, for entrepreneurs and for workers, and especially for all generations in our country. We want to make a policy that serves the human being again, instead of harbinging them. This is our promise to the population in Austria, that is the change we want to bring about. With all the will and courage to change, there are three main confessions that will keep us on this path: a commitment to our past, a commitment to the European Union and a commitment to a new style. President Sobotka has already reported that 2018 will be the significant year in which we will celebrate many celebrations together and in which we will also look back in mourning on the occasion of many other anniversaries. Our Republic celebrates its 100th anniversary, but we will also remember the embarrassing and sad events around March 1938. At this point I would like to thank the Federal President, apart from Dr. Heinz Fischer, for his willingness to take over the preparations, but also the completion of the 2018 commemorative year. Thank you very much, Mr President! [[General condolences.]] Especially in 2018, it is our duty to remember the dark sides of our history as well, and we must use the memory of the horror of the Second World War in particular to warn us about it and to constantly call us into consciousness that such a thing should never happen again. For the first time in my school years, I myself understood the extent of the terror of National Socialism in conversation with Holocaust survivors. And only a few years later, during my work as State Secretary and then as Foreign Minister, did I become aware that I was probably one of the last generations, who had the opportunity to hold these talks at all. For us, one thing is quite clear: Anti-Semitism has no place in Austria and Europe. We will fight with determination against all forms of anti-Semitism, against which still existing but also reimported. This will be an essential task for our federal government. [[General condolences.]] In addition to the establishment of the First Republic and the beginnings of World War II, there are other events that we will remember next year: In 1848, people throughout Europe wanted to remove the shackles of absoluteism and dictatorship, in 1948 the immensely important Universal Declaration of Human Rights was agreed together, and in 1968 the citizens of Czechoslovakia fought for self-determination, democracy and freedom of expression. All that people have fought for in the course of these events is now secured and guaranteed by the European Union. The 2018 anniversary shows us how important the peace project of the European Union is and how important it is to uphold our European values. Even if the European Union, and I would like to admit, has become a matter of course for my generation, it is necessary that we realize that the European Union is not a matter of course. And it is even more necessary to make us aware that it is our task to work towards our European Union becoming a positive one in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I have always said that this government will be a pro-European one, and the programme that we are presenting today underlines that. In the first 48 hours of my term of office, I have been allowed to meet the three Presidents of the Council, Parliament and the Commission in Brussels and have already held initial talks on how we will be setting up the Council Presidency in the second half of 2018. We have a great responsibility in the second half of 2018, not only for Austria, but above all for our European Union. And we have the opportunity to strengthen the principle of subsidiarity at European level, to ensure that the European Union becomes stronger on the major issues and, at the same time, to take back on small issues, better decide on the national states or regions alone. We also have the duty to counter this situation during our Presidency in the event of misdevelopments. We have the duty to fight against the tugs that decide who to move to Europe, and not us as Europeans. We have the duty to look around and not to say nothing if the rule of law and democracy are at risk in some European countries. And we also have the duty as Austria, a country in the heart of Europe, to be a bridge builder when tensions between East and West become more and more. We have the responsibility to be clear in dealing with our neighbors. This means supporting the Western Balkans states on their way to the European Union, but at the same time making it clear that the wrong developments in Turkey are causing Turkey to have no future in the European Union. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Dear Austrians! Today, we make the promise that we will not only act pro-Europeanally, but that we will actively participate at European level for the benefit of Austria and for the benefit of the European Union. Our third confession, ladies and gentlemen, which we want to give as a Federal Government, is a commitment to a new style and also to values that are to shape our work. As new as the challenges that will come to our country in the next five years are, so timeless are the values we want to build on: Respect, propriety and also home sense. Let me say a few words to respect: When I became State Secretary for Integration, I made my intention to convince myself with my own ideas and not to adapt or make others worse. As the Federal Government, we have already found a good deal with each other during the negotiations and want to live them in the future. I am aware that it is the task of the opposition to control, demand and, of course, to criticize there and there. This is not only their task, but also their democratic duty. I also respect that the government programme cannot please everyone, that you will probably not agree with it either; but please also respect as an opposition that the government programme is one and only one, namely the implementation of promises we made in the election campaign and for which we were also elected! The government programme does not include surprises, but includes the demands for which both parties were elected. [[Long-term applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I look forward to discussing our ideas for Austria with the opposition over the next five years. I am looking forward to the discourse and the debate. However, I also ask that we find a way to deal respectfully with each other and that this discussion always take place in a sound manner and with worthy statements in this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This brings me to a second important value, which is to be the basis for our work, namely propriety. I am aware that, as a government, we will have many decisions to make in the future. And the propensity to make decisions means for me, above all, to deal with borrowed power with care. That means having a sense of not being able to make every decision properly, but that also means having a sense of not being able to make it easy. I promise you today that in the decisions we have to make, we will always try to hear as many opinions as possible, and that we will not make it easy to make the necessary decisions for our country. I also promise you that we will always focus on the welfare of our country and give the best for Austria. And I promise you, above all, that propriety for us also means to maintain a proper handling of tax money. Only when we manage to save in the system can we succeed in making people more alive. Only a government that deals properly with tax money also behaves decently with the taxpayers of our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Last but not least, dear Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the respect and the propriety, I think, it also needs home sense. We are living at a time when there is a flood of regulation, of laws, decisions, regulations and regulations. We regulate people's lives to the smallest detail. I believe that it is important, and this is an objective of this federal government, that we can work together to reduce the level of regulation and allow more self-responsibility. The common sense will always be a compass to our policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Dear Austrians! The challenges ahead of us are diverse. You could almost say there's work where you're looking. I can only tell you that, as a Federal Government, we are looking forward to our work, that we will work hard, and I can tell you one thing: If we want to make a comeback for Austria, we will all succeed together. We will work on this, we look forward to it, and I thank you once again for your trust.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e5143	I would like to thank Mr Sebastian Kurz for his statement and give the floor to Vice-Cancecian Heinz-Christian Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e5171	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr National Council President! Honourable guests at the gallery! Mr President of the National Council other than Dr Helmut Khol! - Andreas! Excuse me, I'm sorry; that was a joy’s man! – Mr President of the Leitl Chamber of Commerce! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Andreas!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! ==References== In October, a democratic election has been held, and with the results of the elections, one thing has become visible, namely the sustainable desire of the Austrian population for change, in the direction of a change in which one takes the interests, the concerns, the needs, but also the wishes of the Austrian population seriously again and in which decisions against the will and the minds of its own people are made not only on the basis of political considerations and motives. We have begun government negotiations based on the results of the elections, which have been deliberately serious, speedy, but also of great quality, in which we have not put any time pressure on ourselves and in the end have also been able to achieve a joint outcome of the negotiations in the form of the present government programme. It is of course also my access to thank us for the trust of the Austrian people. It is also our claim to live up to this trust, not to be disappointed. On the other hand, we went into a campaign with election promises, knowing that you can't do everything 100 percent and that the necessary balances also need to be made. I would like to thank Sebastian Kurz, who, in the course of the negotiations – as we were able to get to know each other personally and humanly – has shown that it is an honest concern for him to change and improve a lot in this wonderful country of Austria. It is already clear that it takes many small steps, many, many small steps, so that you can reach the summit at the end. That's exactly the point: We can and do not want to do anything else, but we want to do a lot better. It'll take a lot of small steps. This will also mean that you turn on the right screws to bring Austria back on track with small decisions of this large ship. This is how we see our task and responsibility, which of course we will live with great humility, because we have to serve the Austrian population. We are servants of our own population, and the power we have gained from democracy policy is a borrowed one. That is why we have a special responsibility. We all here on the government bank are like every human being at last, and there will be new responsibilities here sometime. However, as long as we have this responsibility that we have been transferred, we will ensure the best for our own people with all our heart. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have been a clubman in this House for twelve years, and of course it is my concern to invite the representatives of the opposition parties to participate actively. In the past, we have not refused this either from the response as an opposition party. Both being in the government and being in opposition mean political responsibility. It is of course the task of the opposition to also express criticism of the decisions of this government if they exist. I am also looking forward to this criticism, because criticism is always bringing us forward if we also have self-reflection. I can promise you that I will, of course, have this self-reflection, because I have experienced this twelve years as an opposition politician in this House and I have often been annoyed by how good proposals and requests of the opposition have simply been ignored and pushed aside. Therefore, the claim will also be to evaluate these good applications and in-depth claims of the opposition honestly and correctly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Any criticism is welcome, but of course we also have the bar of measurement of the last 12 years, which the previous government party, the Social Democratic Party, will have to measure, because you have been responsible over the last 12 years. We want to implement a lot that you have not implemented in the next few years in the interests of the population, and this is not about vanity or party interests. “Together. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] For our Austria.” – This is the motto under which our government programme stands. I understand, of course, the respectable way of dealing with each other together, that this improper Hickhack, this dispute between the former government parties, which has been made visible to the public on a daily basis, finds no continuation. I understand among them that individuals who have mutual appreciation are sitting together. If there are differences in content – and this is also happening in democracy between partners of two different parties – there or there, one has to prove the human quality, to discuss and clarify it internally and to find the necessary compromise in the interests of the Austrian population. This also means, of course, that you cannot achieve some position as much as you wish. There I am someone who has always lived it honestly and sincerely, also in politics, in all my responsibilities, and you have to admit that. We have a cooperation between two parties, and neither one nor the other has the absolute majority. This also means, of course, that you have to move on to each other there or there and also make painful marks. I confess: Yes, I too and our liberals have had to make painful cuts; in the area of Ceta, it would have been a concern for us to ensure a popular survey. It must also be borne in mind that we are of course also taking on old burdens; by the predecessor in the Federal Chancellor's Office, Mr. Kern, has already been guided in this direction, and the Ceta Free Trade Agreement has already entered into force and reality. [[Call at the FPÖ: Mr. Kern has this to answer!]] We all want a good free trade agreement, and we all want a proper EU Arbitration Court at the end of the process to guarantee the rights of companies and the citizens concerned accordingly. It would have been important for us to ensure a popular survey, but that was a red line in these government negotiations. What would have been the consequence if we had not brought these negotiations to a positive outcome, with the many contents that were important to us and which we could enforce? – The consequence would have been that many voters who gave us the 15th election. It is true that, in October, there was no understanding of the fact that another government constellation, which was in fact elected, would have found a continuation. We have decided quite clearly on the way to putting into effect our positive content, which we have been able to enforce, and I say: Yes, these are essential areas. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Goethe once said: “One can’t change one’s century, but one can stand it and prepare for happy effects.” – To prepare such happy effects, we see this as our task. Surely it is in the nature of political things that there are different views about these effects and objectives. That is one of the essences of democracy. However, it was particularly important for us to ensure, in a government programme, that very decisive provisions were made for the future, and that is the area of security. What happened in recent years? The citizens of our country – I say so – had to experience a state-political failure there or there, one was unable and unwilling to secure and protect the external borders of the European Union and national borders. There has been a great loss of confidence in the political leaders, because the executives and the security forces have done excellent work, but they have not received the appropriate political restraint and the corresponding orders. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is important to us, in our responsibility for the present and future, to ensure responsibility for our Austrian citizens, that there is a stop to illegal immigration, that we protect the borders – of course, within the meaning of the European Union's mandate, which has defined these laws, at the external border, and if this fails, also at the national border. It is important to us that we also do not abandon the executive in all the new challenges that exist today. We have been able to ensure additional planning sites in the field of executives, more than 2 100 additional planning sites are enabled, we will train additional police students. We will also create an executive service law within the framework of civil service law, so that the salary structure of executive officials becomes fairer and so that we also ensure that the police receive the appropriate back cover in the fight against the crime, but also against terrorist threats. The area of order and security has already been discussed in the course of the previous debate: Yes, security and order are an important fundamental issue for us. We do not want any disorder or uncertainty in our country. There are laws to be adhered to, and we have to ensure that laws are implemented. It is also about separating clearly and clearly between immigration and asylum and protection on time for those people who are persecuted. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will take steps towards an efficient asylum system and will also ensure a consistent return of rejected asylum seekers. These are people who have been illegally stopped. No citizen has an understanding of this unless legal implementation takes place. Migration policy must have the objective of regulating legal migration very clearly and aligning it to the needs of Austria and effectively combating and stopping illegal migration. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, priority will be to increase the efficiency of asylum procedures, foreign immigration and foreign police procedures, as well as to adapt basic services for asylum seekers. We will ensure that migration in the Austrian social state does not take place, but that, when we bring people to us, we will bring those who are also willing to contribute by means of performance, namely, to work, pay taxes and ultimately make a positive contribution in our society, which do not migrate to the social state. It is therefore important that we have kept in the government programme to rethink the minimum security according to the above Austrian model, to reduce the cash benefit to 365 euros for asylum-seekers and eligible beneficiaries and to ensure a possible additional integration bonus of 155 euros. Services for a needs community are covered at 1,500 euros. This is in line with the principle of justice and fairness, because in our country, people who have done hard work for many years and have had to experience in the past that others who have not worked an hour have not paid an hour into the system, have been entitled to a minimum guarantee of over 840 euros. This is a misunderstanding that remains upright to this day, and such misunderstandings belong to fairness and justice. There will also be a Europe-wide indexing of family support, i.e. an adjustment to the cost of living in the Member State of the European Union, because the family allowance should only be paid for those children at the appropriate level who actually live in Austria. This is fair and fair access. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, it was also particularly important for us in the government programme to ensure that many inefficiencies, double-tracks that we find in the system today, are stopped. In the future, there will be a database of transparency, which will be truly filled by the countries so that there can be two-tracked, abusive developments. We owe it to our citizens who pay taxes, to make it visible. Of course, we also want to ensure reforms in social security schemes, we want to reduce today's over 21 social security institutions to five in the future, thus ensuring savings in the area of management. Some things will also become necessary in the field of harmonisation – there or there up, down there or down there, but in the interests of patients, in the interests of the affected people in the country, who ultimately expect an optimization and have chosen a slimming of the structures. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Our goal is also to reduce the tax and tax rate in Austria to 40 percent. Yes, with this claim we have acted. This is also a question – and it will not be possible otherwise – of ensuring a massive simplification of the tax system. The focus will be on a comprehensive reform of the Income Tax Act, which will be necessary. We also want to continue to reduce the debt ratio, because it would not be social for our children and children to continue with the policy that we have had to learn in recent years and decades that we are simply building on the back of the coming generations more debt. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's ……]] Of course, we want to implement essential contents of our programme in the direction of modernising the measurement of profits and in the direction of easier tax returns for micro-enterprises; the promotion of private pension schemes and the integration of special expenditure and extraordinary taxes are also a topic. There's a lot to do. It is our claim to start with small incomes, for the small workers who work hard every day, who are busy all day and earn between EUR 1 348 and EUR 1 948 gross per month. Yes, we want to relieve them immediately as a first step, because they are particularly important to us and because the every additional euro we will give them needs for daily life when it comes to buying food or covering rental costs. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Can you explain it again? The government spokesman didn't do it properly yesterday.]] There are over 620 000 small workers in this segment, which we will relieve, which will have an average net of 320 euros per year. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In recent years, we have only had to face tax burdens and discussions on new taxes. There was no social responsibility you lived. This social responsibility and justice is a claim that we want to meet. As one of the first steps, we will also relieve families in addition to the reliefs for small and medium-sized incomes. Yes, the families – and there are all children alike! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no, the bonus is not all the same!]] – receive family allowance and child benefit today, which is a good system. In addition, it is also important to think of those who work and pay taxes and until now have been affected by record taxes, and finally to relieve them. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the future, if they have children, they will receive tax credits of 1,500 euros per child in the sense of a family bonus plus or a child bonus system. This is an investment in our future, because those who give children life also give our home, our state, the Republic a future. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] It costs money, and these people deserve relief. This deduction will be made until the 18th century. I'll give you a year of life. Furthermore, for those people who have worked hard for a lifetime who have worked for more than 40 years and who have paid in the social security system, we will ensure that they receive a minimum minimum pension of EUR 1 200 in the future. You have deserved it honestly, and it is a shame that many of these people who have worked for over 40 years have not received this 1,200 euros net pension in recent years. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, we were particularly important to many topics, and many things are important to us together. Direct democracy was such a topic. We are aware that we must take very, very careful action. Of course, we had optimal ideas that are not implemented in this form. However, a historic step has been taken, because we will for the first time in the Second Republic ensure that popular initiatives will be possible in the future and that people will be given the opportunity to force a binding referendum in national areas with a direct democratic initiative. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are going to take a step that can be further expandable in the future. The obstacle of 900 000 was a requirement of our partner, who has always spoken of 10 percent of the total population as an obstacle. We have had the desire to introduce a 4-percent stand as an optimal variant. But it was even more important to us that this step be taken at all, because we are not afraid of the Austrian population. Then: It is necessary to allow this instrument of the Austrian population to be added to this wonderful parliamentary democracy. This will be done gradually and will be implemented into reality until the end of the legislative period. This will ultimately become a historical act that will be unique in the Second Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is also important for us to push back constraints and state premeditation, in various areas. Of course, as you know, there have been maximum demands there or there. Yes, it would have been our wish to overcome the constraints also in the chamber state. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] But there is also a need for partners. And because you, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, are looking at me just now: I don't have a majority with you, I'm sorry. We could not do this together. To do this, we need to realize that there is no such partner and that there is no majority in this House, at least the step – and that we have done – in the government negotiations to make movement possible. I deliberately say: The social partners have done a great deal of work in the history of the Second Republic and also have a great responsibility. We want to talk to the social partners, we will be looking for a discussion with the Chambers, with the right to receive reform proposals from them as well. I believe that, both in the Chamber of Labour and in the Chamber of Commerce, there is no understanding that, in the case of hundreds of millions of euros of membership per year, membership contributions at the current level or in the previous volume are not fair to the members and that there is a need for a reduction or a discharge of members. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I believe that this insight will be there and, at the end of the day, a good reform can be made possible, which ultimately relieves members, and that if they do not have the same performance. We are talking about efficiency in all structures, including the apparatus and the state. Of course, it is also important for us to act when it comes to state promulgation. Yeah, we're on non-smoker protection. This too has always been a subject in recent weeks. Non-smoker protection is important to us. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] No Austrian citizen should be harassed by passive smoking. But of course there is also the self-determination of the individual, and there is also the right to free choice, in the sense of freedom of choice. And here we want to make sure that the gastronomy can offer a specially defined area for smoking, where every citizen has the opportunity to go in voluntarily, and the decision to maybe want to enjoy a cigarette or cigar or pipe in a coffee there. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Wöginger and Mr Rädler.]] No one is forced to do so, nor is it harmed by anyone who wants to enjoy the non-smoker protection. In order to ensure this, there should be appropriate labelling requirements. This is an access to a free society away from state promulgation. Yes, it was also important for us to consider the desire of the South Tyroleans, with regard to which all the parties in South Tyrol have made the request for us to think about a future possible double citizenship, in the government programme. We will try to put this into conversation with our Italian neighbours with thought and, of course, in great friendship. The Italians themselves have a good law. Millions of Italians, who do not live in Italy today, have double citizenship due to Italian legislation, and those Italian minorities living in Slovenia and Croatia, of course, have double citizenship. Especially in this positive relationship in the European Union, it can and will hardly be a problem to implement it in the interests of all parties concerned as the other countries – including our neighbor Italy – do. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Strasser and Mr Rupprechter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my future field of responsibility – only when the Federal Ministry Act will enter into force, namely, 8th. January 2018 – the sport will also belong. The sport is an essential part of the life of the Austrians. He inspires millions of people day after day in various sports, where many people co-fierce and follow the achievements of Austrian athletes when they are particularly successful – as is currently the case in ski sports – and then enjoy themselves. More than half of the Austrians are active at least once a week. Each fourth participates in organized sports activities at least two to three times a month. More than 500 000 Austrians are available each week in their spare time to volunteer for sports. In order to establish us as a sports nation in the future, it is important that we also create the necessary framework conditions for this and thus also ensure the necessary financial and organisational support, for the sports clubs and their structures, because we know from experience that the clubs and professional associations are usually very close to sports. There you will have to put on a positive position. At the same time, however, necessary reforms must also be made in the sense of our hobby and professional athletes. Therefore, at the beginning of our government, we want to develop a better strategic control of sports promotion through a higher national sport strategy and ensure a slim settlement structure and ensure that in the future the right framework conditions are created again for success in top-level sports. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we also need the promotion of peripheral sports, and in different areas, starting in school sports, we also have our responsibility in terms of health policy, for example, when it comes to gymnastics or when it comes to strengthening people's awareness of healthy lifestyles and encouraging young people for sport and movement and not holding back from it. All of this will be an essential step we will have to take. As far as the European Union is concerned, Sebastian Kurz has put it to the fore: We are Europeans, we live in the heart of Europe, and we stand for this European peace project. We may have a little different views in one area or another, where we rightly criticise one direction or another from the responsibility for a European project. Those who love Europe must also practice criticism there or there, when they realize that there are false centralist processes. We are aware, however, that this peace project is Europe one of the most essential projects necessary to maintain peace in the present and in the future. We are going to be positive, but we will critically raise the point where there are centralist misdevelopments. Above all, it is the principle of subsidiarity that we want to promote and actively participate in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The priority for us is the commitment to a further development of the European Union in the sense of saying: less, but more efficient! We want, of course, to ensure in this government that at the same time our neutrality is lived and revived, because this is a feature for which we have gained worldwide appreciation in the past, but which unfortunately has been pushed back in recent years. We will, of course, also, and I say this quite consciously – this time in a government – ensure that it does not come to a centralist European state where the sovereignty of Austria is to be completely abandoned. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And yes, we will also represent our convictions in the European Union when it comes to Turkey's accession to the European Union. We do not want this accession, we do not think it reasonable, we think it unreasonable, and we want to seek allies to achieve a break-up of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. There is a need for a European neighbourhood concept, but no full entry. [[Welcoming the FPÖ and Deputies Wöginger, Nehammer and tiny.]] I have just outlined and worked out a few points of our government programme, but it was necessary to show what our drive was to go to this government, and what our claim is to make the future better. All in all, it can be said that both government parties have exerted themselves by far more than 50 percent in the government programme. Of course, this is also due to the reality that we had similar demands there and there before the election. But it also shows that the basis is given to be able to work in a sincere and honest way for the Austrian population, and this makes it possible for us, each of us, to make the promise, to implement more than 75 percent of the election promises we made before the election. This is exactly that new quality and that new style that you may not be used to there or there, because it was different in the past and you didn't even implement 10 to 20 percent of the election promises. But this is exactly what we are doing now, and we are going to prove that every day. I should now like to thank the members of the liberal government for taking over this responsibility in the respective departments as well. First, our Minister, Ing. Norbert Hofer, responsible for the Ministry of Infrastructure. He is truly as a personality, but also as far as his professional competence is concerned, excellently suited for this place of business. - I'm welcome to welcome you. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I welcome Herbert Kickl, who, as a newly praised Minister of the Interior, will have an essential responsibility to restore the sense of security of the Austrian population – especially the subjective sense of security that has fallen massively in recent years – through good work, quite cordially to the team. Whoever knows him knows that he is an incredibly structured manager and diligent worker. I trust him in all cases because of his competence. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of health, social affairs and work, Mrs Mag. Beate Hartinger, who is a specialist, is responsible. It comes from this area, has been active in the main association of social security institutions, and whoever, if not they, knows the structures, knows the technical problems, knows therefore how necessary it is to make changes in the interests of patients so that we do not have two-class medicine and so that we do not have to experience such waiting times as they are today in the hospitals. And I say, With you as a specialist, I am looking forward to the good implementations and reforms in the field of social security funds! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am pleased to welcome Mrs. Dr. Karin Kneissl as Minister of Foreign Affairs to the team who, as a specialist in the Diplomatic Academy, founded her career, which was also active for the former Foreign Minister Alois Mock, who studied in a wide variety of countries and who speaks seven languages and who has gained a reputation as an expert in a wide variety of fields, including as an Islam expert. It will take the lead in the areas of Europe, foreign policy and integration in the future. I am convinced that you – and I have not said for nothing, Karin, that I see the female Kreisky in you – with your expertise, with your warm heart and with your diplomatic expertise and also with the awareness that Austrian neutrality has a very, very high priority in the world, will be the best advertising for Austria abroad. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am pleased to welcome the new Minister of Defence Mario Kunasek to the team, who comes from the German army himself. He's an officer, so if you want to, he's a man of the force. I believe that it is very good for the German army to see progress and further developments from this perspective, because there needs to be an optimization for professional soldiers and improvements in the field of basic training, where more and better conditions need to be created, and there is also a need to revive the militia. You'll be the guarantee for that. All right, all right! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, I welcome our State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, quadruple academic Hubert Fuchs, who, when it comes to technical matters and, above all, the preparation of the necessary tax reductions, will be happy to assist the Minister of Finance with his expertise. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To conclude: Mr. Federal Chancellor, it's a historic moment. Today, in this declaration of government, we have the most recent Chancellor of the Second Republic in front of us, and I can stress one thing: It is not a question of age, but it is a question of personal character, personal maturity, personal human quality that someone has, whether or not he is fulfilling his task. I have never met such a young man before, who – and I say this with real appreciation – works so hard, who works so hard, who really prepares himself excellently in all things and who has shown in such a way that his task is serious and important to him. And I don't like to say, as an elder. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Bussi!]] He deserves respect for that! And above all I say: You have our trust, and you also have the confidence of the majority of the population, I am convinced of this, and we both, in our capacity as the government team, will be able to live up to this trust. I therefore say thanks for the trust and the good! [[Federal Chancellors Short Hand Extensive]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e5508	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now entering the debate on the declarations of government. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Christian Kern. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e5538	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen to the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens and at the audience gallery! I would like to begin by congratulating the members of the government on fishing. They have taken on an important responsibility. In her hand lies the skill of Austria over the next five years, and I am not willing to wish them a happy hand for their decisions. I think it's like this: Once you put this whole turquoise incense and the blue thinst on the side and deal with the facts, you can see that the initial conditions for a federal government are probably as good as they are today. We are on an absolute record course in economic growth. And because today the comparison with Germany has been drawn: In 2005 – Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz said it – we looked at Germany and said that the better Germany was Austria. And the Germans envyed us at the time. At the time, we had an economic growth of 2.1 percent in Austria. Today, as you know, we are a whole percentage point of this. That is to say, the initial conditions are such that we are actually the better Germany today, and I would like that the measures and activities of this federal government do not playful by the contribution of many that we have laboriously worked out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have learned a lot today, even as far as your personal preferences are concerned, and I mean not the last sentences of the Lord Vice-Chancellor, but his confession and his love for Goethe. And if I remember what has been listed on this political stage in Austria in recent months in Austria, I have a little feeling that we have been hanging in the foreplay at the Faust, and now we are all waiting for finally to appear in the prologue of Mephisto. [[Abg. Hauser: The SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Hauser: We have experienced this in the election campaign!]] History seems to be only those – and so I understood the concept here – that we can wait even longer here, because, obviously, until the country elections are all completed in spring, essential parts of your truth will not be experienced. [[Abg. Gudenus: The Pudel's core!]] I find this remarkable and do not find it all right. And I tell you why this is so: because we have seen exactly this procedure in Upper Austria. There was time until the National Council election until one came out with all the truth behind the curtain, and this whole truth then ended up in cancellations for the children, in cancellations for the family, in cuts for the disabled and in cuts for art and cultural workers. [[Abg. Haider: That's not true at all! That's not true! Where was that?]] This is exactly what you can expect if you read your program precisely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My proposal is: Let us look behind the words, let us see what is the substance of what has been presented, and let us ask ourselves what to think of this programme! I give Mr Kurz the following: In fact, this programme did not offer any surprises. There has been no surprises because, at least from my point of view – and this will not surprise you – it involves a number of setbacks in social policy, in economic policy, in social policy and also in environmental matters. I can also say that I would like to give Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache a word when he says: Yes, we have not reached 100 percent!, but I want to add – I don't want to call it a word of the year now –: This is really the understatement of the year! Because if I look at exactly what's inside this program, I have to say: Of what you promised before the election, I find it best to find homeopathic doses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have been given the impression – and, with engagement, that is – that we have had a debate on the elections and, subsequently, we have had a government formation in which promises and announcements have been placed on board at the record pace. I understand that in recent years you have really tried to get your image that you are the representative of the little people that you are the fighters, the upright and the wakeners against the system and against the felt of all provenance. If I look at what is left of it today, I can only say: You've betrayed your voters very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: That's just you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] They have become the leader of a policy which essentially benefits the major donors of the ÖVP's election campaign. [[Abg. Listen:... SPÖ party match! Talk such a fool!]] I have to tell you, on the one hand, it is easy to criticize things in opposition, but on the other hand, it is so that you are today as a vice-channer, as a Freedom Party in a position in which it is no longer grudging, what is happening, but now you really have the responsibility for what people's living conditions are in real hands. That is why it is worth looking at exactly what you are proposing and what that will mean. I'm sorry if I can handle this celebration with facts, but we've dealt with your programme very carefully. [[Call the FPÖ: “Facts”!]] Let us look, for example, at what I believe is one of the greatest challenges: the fight against unemployment. Unemployment is a social scandal, we must not take notice of it. However, this programme contains a proposal from your side, which is aimed at massively collapsing the employment programmes for those over 50 years old. [[Abg. Deimek: Employment...!]] Now, considering what that means, who is affected, it is noted: For example, there are 53-year-olds who have issued hundreds of application letters that are able to do something that is competent, that can do something and that in many cases do not even get an answer. – These are the people you now throw the door in front of the nose! Not enough with it: They not only delete the programmes that give these people hope and a future perspective, but they are going one step further, because in Your programme is very clearly stated that you propose a reduction in unemployment benefit in the event of longer unemployment – you call it degressive unemployment benefit – and that results in people actually being pushed into poverty and any hope being taken away from them. That's not enough, because if you continue to read your program exactly – and I can tell you it's a worthwhile exercise; Perhaps you should do this again in epic width – then you can see that, with the removal of emergency aid, people are entering the minimum security after prolonged unemployment. Do you know what that means? – They not only give these people no hope, they not only take their job, but at the end of a professional life take away from them everything they have built up, saved and created work with their hands for a lifetime. That's your policy! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kolba.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I also think it is remarkable that, if you continue reading, you can see that, a few paragraphs later, these people, who are providing minimum security, then still want to donate to the employment service. I'm asking you straight now: How can you demand this programme, this policy and look at these people, at the end also humble them for their fate? Your policy is a policy that is directed against the poor and not against poverty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you complain about someone saying that this is a Hartz IV model for Austria, if you say it isn't, then I'm right, because that's worse, that goes on in many points. The picture, the social image that you spread behind it, is one where you say unemployment, that is a self-elected fate!, and in doing so, let's take care that today in Austria, six unemployed people stand up for a job. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] – That’s the problem, and these are the questions we need solutions for! [[Abg. Haider: That you have created!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Social democracy has done a lot!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the run-up to this election debate, we have also dealt intensively with the question of the design of the working world. One of the key questions was whether there should be the possibility for a 12-hour working day in Austria, a possibility which has been developed compared to today's situation. [[Call ÖVP:Plan A!]] I still have it in my ears, as you have said, that can't happen under any circumstances, it's anti-performance and I don't know what. You were against it, you said you didn't want to. [[Call the FPÖ: There's been a long time!]] What do you say to the people you are looking at exactly this policy? What do you say to the people who get up at 4 o'clock in the morning, commuting to Vienna, going to work for two hours, who are now allowed to work twelve hours, 60 hours a week, and which you are not prepared to offer the slightest compensation for this deterioration? [[Abg. Haubner: Mr. Kern, please!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Inconceivable!]] I have your words in the ear, and I know your excuse – and you have managed to speak to one or the other –; They say: It's all just voluntary! – Anyone who has once been in a business in his life knows how far it is with this voluntaryness. [[call to the FPÖ.]] They also claim that this will, of course, not cost overtime supplements. Quite honest: Look Why don't you take a look at the models, how this really works? The key to the overtime question is throughput periods, and it is good, proven practice in Austria that the trade unions negotiate collective agreements, where settlement periods are defined; this protects workers. If you shift this to the operational level, then change the balance; then change the balance in favour of employers, and the workers remain. I'll tell you: Your model will lead to the removal of overtime supplements for people in Austria under guarantee and with certainty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This can be continued. I can tell you, if you believe the voters don't notice that, then that's, I think, a capital deception. You demand a fair rental right, fairness is required here. The exciting question is: Fairness for whom? It should be thought to us that the association of interest-rate homeowners and large landowners has broken out in jubilation; they do not do so by about, for they know what is coming. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Say the...owner's core!]] And they also know what that means on the opposite side, what has been enforced, namely deterioration in rental contracts in founding houses. I wonder what you explain to the young families who already spend 50 percent of their income on rents today. Will you tell them honestly: Yes, all of this will become even more expensive, because of course we will pay attention to the fairness for homeowners and homeowners!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Rosary: Why should we lie to them?]] – Of course you won’t. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How will you explain to the little people that their children will have to pay tuition fees in the future, that social barriers will be created? I understand that burgers feel comfortable in elitist clubs, but that's an educational policy that says: [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Haider and Höbart as well as a call for tender from the Abg. Deimek]] Elites have to stay under themselves! And this is a policy that represents a step back into a distant past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I understand your emotions, but do you know what the truth is? – They have jumped into the tiger costume and are finished as bedheads. [[Abg. New builder: (keeping a document in height) That's your truth! That's your truth! You can pay a second salary by the taxpayer!]] That's the reality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] You know, I still understand that if you say that there are major reforms that will change our country for the better. But if you look at these reforms, what remains? – Today in the morning, in the “Morgenjournal” it was to be heard that you celebrated the biggest reform you have to offer is the aggregation of social security institutions to five. - Bravo! But what are you really doing? – They change the door signs, more is it not, because if you say that the countries should continue to maintain budgetary sovereignty, the countries should continue to maintain their sovereignty, then nothing exactly happens. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations to Mr Loacker and Mr Strolz]] You will not save a cent with this policy, I can already prophesy it to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: 129...!]] But what you do with it, and this is the perfide on it, is the following: They are changing the situation in our country again because self-management was an important principle of compensation between workers and employers. [[Abg. Haider: Good luck! Fortunately, the conditions are changed!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] What you are doing now is to change the conditions of power, to the workers who will be in this system those who remain on the track. If you say, Well, we are saving in the system and not in people!, then I can only point you to a small point, a mistake of thought that is like a red thread through this program; let's stay at the General Insurance Institute: They say we should save 500 million euros. But what are they doing? – They maintain the accident hospitals that entertain the rehabilitation centers. These 500 million euros, which are to be saved, are contributions from employers in Austria. If you delete these now, you have two options: The one is, you shorten the benefits for the people in the country, the other is, you force the workers to pay higher contributions. I'll tell you one thing: Then please don't come here and say you're saving in the system and not with people, because it's the other way round! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bißmann.]] I would like to address a point that I find remarkable, because it has also been quoted today. You've been proud to tell you that you'll relieve the small incomes. I would like to add: I think that's right. You can certainly discuss the action you have taken. [[Call the FPÖ:Don't discuss, make! We'll do it!]] But one thing is not right, and I would suggest that we should be orientating on one of our predecessors as Chancellors, who once said not to believe their own lavender. But the point is: What you do with this proposal to reduce unemployment insurance contributions is good, but 3.4 million Austrians are looking through their fingers – pensioners get nothing, and all those who earn less than EUR 1 380 do not benefit from it. If you're proud and say, Also with the family bonus we relieve the small incomes!, then I have to tell you: This is not so, because a single parent who has two children who earn less than EUR 1 250 will receive the proposal 0 cent discharge. [[Abg. Schimanek: You have long forgotten them in social democracy!]] They also look through their fingers again, because this discharge can only be achieved to the full if you earn more than 2 500 euros – with two children. Do you know what the bad thing about it is? – That in the end you have not only a financial mathematical error, but that you end up with a principle – with a principle that we were rightly proud of! – and this principle has stated that every child in our country must be of equal value. What you're demonstrating here is that this is no longer the case and that children from poor families are less valuable than children from rich families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also find it remarkable that everything in the programme, such as social justice, is a fair tax system. They announce corporate tax reductions, which is sold with the argument regarding small and medium-sized enterprises. We know that this is nonsense, because most of it does not pay corporate tax at all. But the remarkable thing is what is not inside. They have announced in the election campaign that we are consistently fighting the tax avoidance practices of international companies, that we are no longer going to let Starbucks, Amazon and Co roll, which in our country use the full infrastructure but do not pay taxes. We believed that we were satisfied that you were finally swirling on our course. If you look at this programme now, you can suddenly see that the transparency obligations of these groups should only happen in line with the EU, that models such as the digital facility, which finally pay taxes in Austria, should only happen in accordance with the EU. In other words: It won't come. [[Abg. Rosary: Your anti-EU holding is great!]] And if you wonder why this is so, you have to say: That's where you protect the wrong people again. I know well enough that there are also enough Austrian companies that are of course lobbying their feet in front of your door. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Lighthouses, an interesting keyword: We have expected – and you have stressed this over and over again – that it is about change, it is about a new time, it is about taking advantage of the opportunities of the future. When I look at the challenges and opportunities we face, I have to say that I really regret that your programme does not support them. Digitalization appears as a keyword, but the crucial questions are not answered: How does this continue with our social system? How's work going? How's the tax system going? How will Austria beat itself in a global world? How do we deal with climate change? Don't be angry with me. I believe that what you have said as progress that the Ministry of Agriculture is now responsible for energy is a threat because I know that this will result in even more money for the large-scale agricultural industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How do we deal with inequality? – All of this would have been suitable projects for real lighthouse policy, but your lighthouses consist of a mountain of empty cigarette boxes. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gerstl and Mr Rädler]] They lead Austria back to a retro concept of the 1970s. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosenkranz: (Referring to the Mimik of the Federal President Van der Bellen) The President of the Federal Republic feels addressed!]] [[Abg. Höbart: Deeply frustrated!]] I can still come to the issue of the European Union: It is indeed gratifying to hear that there has been a corresponding confession, and I consider it to be the least and most necessary. However, I would like to add that only the fact that you agreed that Austria is not leaving the European Union or not leaving the euro is far from a pro-European policy. And I have to tell you: As long as the Freedom Party makes a common case with a Le Pen, with a wilder, with a farage, as long as – you know as well as I do – we will not be taken seriously at European level as far as our European policy is concerned. [[Abg. Rosary: (delighted) Now it's always going to be colorful!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. New builder:... still in North Korea today!]] The challenge to me – and we have seen this in tax policy – is: We need pan-European solutions, we need a commitment to deepening, we need a commitment to integration – and we do not need a European policy based on less, slower, subsidiarity, as you understand it. [[Abg. Rosary: What now?]] Macron has stretched out his hand for a progressive, offensive European policy. I think that if we were to accept this, it would not put us on the side of Orbán and Kaczyński. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] Finally, let me return to the input motive of the change! This change has often been proclaimed, from my point of view it is a change back; it is not time for new things, it is the time for old ones. However, a change has actually occurred, it is visible with a clear eye, and I can only congratulate the colleague on this: What you have done, Federal Chancellor Kurz, is you have brought FPÖ into government responsibility. That's your good right, it's in a democracy such that it can happen, that's the normal sequence of majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] But I think it would only be fair if you took on this responsibility to stand up and say: Yes, I've planned this a long time, that's the government alliance I wanted! , and no excuses would be found – but if you were to assume responsibility for the fact that top jobs are occupied in the bureaucracy in Austria with people who scrambled on the edge of right-wing extremism, if you were to assume responsibility for Israel's not wanting to cooperate with a substantial part of the Austrian government, and would also assume responsibility for opening up access to the security device to this Freedom Party and providing it with the intelligence services; this is a historic merit that will remain secure. [[Abg. New builder: As you the Faymann...!]] [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Riemer: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: The princess on the peas!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6230	I may ask you to come to a close; Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6245	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think there are many missed opportunities, there are many disappointed promises. [[Abg. Lausch:... had years!]] [[Call:Reading time]] I am convinced that the reforms needed have not been presented here by this Federal Government. I see a large number of setbacks in social terms, in terms of education, in terms of social policy, and I can only say to you: [[Abg. Listen:... years nothing done!]] I would like to see politics and the time of tactics now over and we finally come to action for our Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6322	Mr August Wöginger has been reported on the floor. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6356	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a special day here in Parliament today; whenever the government presents itself for the first time in the National Council, this is a special event. It is now the fifth time that I can see that a federal government has declared itself, always after a National Council election. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also a special day for me personally today, because I was praised on the day exactly 15 years ago and experienced governments in different constellations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, it is remarkable that there is already a great deal of common ground in this Federal Government. We have heard this during the negotiations. I was allowed to be involved in six sub-groups, in the whole, in the large area of social justice, new justice, and there – and I am saying this as one who has been sitting here in this House for 15 years – we have already felt that now another style is being maintained, that it is different to go around, that one listens to the other, that one respects him that one also allows the other opinion. We did not argue for a half set for weeks, but we moved on to each other, so that we can present a good programme here at the end of the day. And that is the change, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You do not believe how many times people have talked to me in my constituency in my constituency and said: I bet you pretty, Gust, stop this fight! [[Call at the SPÖ:Hättens eh! Wouldn't have had to argue!]] Stop fighting, work for us, for the people in this country – politics is there! I am really glad that we can start with this new style here today, too, that we can signal the population: Yes, we want to meet, we understand, we accept each other, we like each other too, we address the problems in this country and the challenges that are needed, and that together. We do not judge each other, but we do something together for the benefit of people in this country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is also a sensation that after 51 days of intense negotiations – and for this I would like to express special respect to the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chanceller – after negotiations until the night, almost daily, also in the 25 sub-groups, have been concluded in the shortest time. Even on Advent markets, for example – I wasn't much at home in the weeks after the election – the people talked to us and asked: Are you ready before Christmas? Is it okay? [[Abg. Rosary: Right!]] We want this new government to be at the forefront with short and straight. Get ready! - We've been done. We can present this programme today, which is a good one. People now know that this government will work for them. We have managed together to thank God that this new federal government is still standing before Christmas. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As a People's Party – and I am glad and grateful that I am now allowed to be Klubobmann of the largest group here in the House – we went to the election with three priorities: first with a large discharge package, with a deregulation and debureaucratisation package, second with the claim to have a new social justice in that country, and third with the fact that security must be of even greater importance than it has been so far; not least because of the refugee situation that we had to achieve together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor does it come about that yesterday in the “ZIB 1” Hans Bürger said: We were all surprised that concrete decisions are already on the table. He addressed yesterday's first Council of Ministers in this new constellation, which has already decided on a lecture on the discharge of low incomes, which concerns the discharge of those people who earn up to EUR 1 948 gross. We will relieve these people with an average of 320 euros per year. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a total volume of 160 million euros, and this is a profoundly social policy measure that we are starting with! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Secondly, Fixed in this program is a family, a child bonus with 1,500 euros per year per child as a deposit of the tax. To explain this to people as well: That's cash, that's money that really net is deducted from the tax burden! Examples have been given that this does not affect. Last year, the social partners agreed on a minimum wage of 1,500 euros gross, a measure that is very fine, and with an income of 1,500 euros gross, the overall relief, even if the special payments are included, is at 928 euros per year per single parent or per family, in which only 1 500 euros earn gross. Ladies and gentlemen! We could not raise the amount of family aid to this amount, namely the minimum wage. If you earn 2 000 euros, a total of 1 500 euros net is more noticeable. For example, if you earn 2 500 euros, then of course this goes up even further, and depending on how many children you have, as often as this amount is deducted. This is one of the biggest family policy measures in recent decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We will implement this together – as we have now begun – in steps. We start with the low-earners, then we come to the family bonus, then we will come to a wage-additional reduction, which our businesses also need; very many are moaning under this great burden which we have in total at tax rates. Until the end of this legislative period, we will be able to reduce the tax rate for all taxpayers towards 40 percent. Whatever we have promised, and whatever is illustrated in this programme, ladies and gentlemen, are clear measures for deregulation, debureaucratisation. We are preparing for digitization. – Yes, of course, that is also the task of this Federal Government! Let me give you an example: broadband development, which is clearly enshrined in the programme. The municipalities often moan under that they do not get any money that the projects are towed away. Some federal states, my federal state of Upper Austria, for example, are focusing on this, and the new Federal Government is doing the same. These are very important measures when it comes to discharge, deregulation and preparation for digitisation, especially in rural areas. Broadband development is clearly anchored. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The second essential area: new social justice. As so-called separate social spokesperson of the People's Party, I would like to say that I am really glad that we have been able to anchor some very, very important social policy measures, positive things that help many people, for example, by raising the care allowance especially in the areas of Stages 4 to 7. It is also clear that there must be an additional counter-financing measure in the care system. Care rules are inconvenient and have been abolished, with all the votes here in the House – except those of the NEOS – but to ensure counter-financing is also important, especially for those responsible for our old and care homes on site. [[Abg. Scherak: M-mh!]] We fight poverty by introducing a minimum pension of 1,200 euros for long contribution periods – at 40 years – for families of 1,500 euros. That is justified, ladies and gentlemen. This concerns those who have worked for a long time and who have spent a long time, we must provide them with something more than those who have not. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Performance must pay off – this principle is based on the government programme. Unfortunately, in other constellations this has always been difficult or de facto not possible that we can also picture it. We're on it. This leads me to the issue of minimum security. I do not know how many times I have spoken, especially in the historic Parliament building, when we have discussed the issue of minimum security. What the hell is there? - We're doing the right thing now. Upper Austria, Lower Austria and even the red and blue Burgenland have decided to do so. Mr Klubobmann Kern, you should check with Mr Niessl, who has introduced exactly this lower minimum guarantee of EUR 584 per month for asylum seekers and people who have not lived in the country over the last five years. [[Abg. Bösch: That's it!]] That is justified. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Kitzmüller gives the bell sign.]] – Voluntary speaking time limit, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot explain why, for example, a minimum pensioner in Vienna, who may also have worked for a long time and raised children, gets the same thing with just under 900 euros as someone who has not been there in recent years, who has, so to speak, come to our country as an asylumist. In fact, you can't explain that, and that's socially unfair if you make the same amount available in both cases. That's exactly what we figure out in our programme. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The indexation of family allowances for children living abroad is a measure that is justified and also finds its precipitation. A word on unemployment benefit New: If you read our programme carefully, you know that we bring unemployment and social benefits together, so to speak, with a corresponding time interval and again taking into account: Those who have spent a long time in the system, of course, also receive longer unemployment benefits. This is not going to be a secret, but that's what we want. This is an insurance benefit, and the longer you pay, the longer you get it. That means exactly the 50-year-olds, Mr Klubobmann Kern! We know that this is fate, and we also take it seriously and make it a reality in our programme. These people will not have the problem of not getting unemployment benefit because they have paid and worked accordingly for a long time. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The last point is the entire area of security. Security has priority. We said: Stop illegal migration, controlled migration, implementation of a security package that we have unfortunately not been able to realize so far. Who has a problem when the photo taken on the highway by the Asfinag camera is provided to the executive officers? These are things that are natural when we confess that we also want to fight terrorism. It is necessary to implement this. A plus of more than 2,000 police officers is also included in the programme as well as increased penalties for sexual and violent offences. This is how we understand the security policy for the people of our country. Finally, I would like to stress a project because it is done as if nothing would change: I am talking about the reform of social security funds. I have been a Member for 15 years now, I have been following the discussion for more than 20 years, and never has anything been possible. It is not a question of trying to change any structures there, but of telling the citizens: Those who pay the same contributions will receive the same benefit, multi-insurances will be abolished. At the end of the day, people are concerned about continuing to provide a good health system in a simplified structure. This is also illustrated in our program. By the way, this is a model which comes from the 1 400-page sink, which Mr Stöger has commissioned as a Social Minister by over 600 000 euros. It is therefore, as it were, also fine, because it is a model that is depicted under a variety of models in this study. We put together,smart the structure, but we do not save on the benefits for the people in the health system. [[Abg. Drozda: What about official insurance?]] That's what we do with it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A word also on the 12-hour day, because in this respect we were also told that we had not read the program: Mr Kern, the 12-hour day was also included in your plan A; he was found there! What are we doing? – It remains at 8 hours of normal working time, in order to say that to the citizens as well; it is clearly held and regulated! We already have classifications within which we can extend to 10, 12 hours under certain conditions, and we do not change that. There must also be the agreement of the Works Council on operating agreements, the collective contracting partner or those concerned. We only change one paragraph in the Working Time Act so that it becomes easier to implement, of course only for a limited period of time. No one is talking about people having to work 12 hours a day or 60 hours a week for a whole year. The opposite is the case! We have an EU working time directive of 48 hours, which does not allow it at all. But we want more flexibility in the sense of employers and employees. The employers need them to ensure the location and thus also the jobs, and workers are offered more money through overtime supplements and more leisure time, and leisure time is becoming more and more important to working people. That is the truth about working time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to congratulate all the new members of the Federal Government once again. I wish everyone a good, happy hand in their activities in the respective resorts. I am convinced that this federal government will work for the benefit of the citizens of this country, for the benefit of the Austrians – with respect, propriety and understanding, and that is what matters!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6546	Thank you very much for the word. Next speaker: Mr Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6570	Madam President. Dear members of your government, who are now new on board – they are almost exclusively such – for your duties I would like to give you all the right to get on the way, you have important functions! New brooms are coming well, says the mouth of the people, and there is a certain hope in them, I would like to say. Estimated citizens! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating the Government Declaration, looking at how it can be assessed. Of course, prose will also find good on 180 pages; this is so and I do not want to hide it either. For example, I think it is gratifying that elementary pedagogy is now coming to the educational resort – an old NEOS proposal, as far as we can speak of old in our context. I believe that it is good that the transparency database is now being tightened up, including a sanction for involuntary country princes, for those princes of transparency. By this one sees that opposition work is retiring, that if you stay on a topic, you can also get out of the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – This, Mr Rädler, of course gives us strength and energy for the next five years. Calculate with us all the time! It is also okay and not superfluous, but long ago at the time that we hang digitization higher than that has happened by the federal government we last had. Digitalization is a huge chance, but there are also risks associated with it. A government and also a parliament must be very determinedly proactive about it. Of course, all of this cannot make it clear that the overall government programme is a disappointment. They have announced that lighthouses will come. However, as well as all observers agree: We didn't find lighthouses! On these 180 pages the courageous statements are missing, missing the redemption of your promises that you are really determined to do so. There are many small steps included, but overall the program is not ambitious and deeply non-binding. That is, always where it should become concrete, put things in a mist with many words and great non-bindingness, and we do not know exactly: Will it happen? Isn't it going to happen? You've shown quite a few timelines that prove when you're doing things like that. And we know from experience: There, where the timeframes are missing, there is also the prospect of implementation in at least half of the cases. That is why we will have a great task: to speed up, as a reform turbo, those things that we believe are to be done, and also to bend them in the right direction. Of course, you can sort of put the social security funds together, but when you hear the national leaders who are now saying that they are actually satisfied – those who have said before: There's my red line! – who are now saying that this is the case, then of course you must also be aware that what you are planning could also be a deterioration by spanning a bureaucratic holding. That's why we'll be very vigilant how you implement it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to describe briefly a best-or the disappointments about black-blue, because it is important to also remind you that there is still some movement in this regard. I would like to start – not surprisingly – with education. Education, Minister Fässmann, I believe that we agree on this, is the key to empowering the human being. Education is so important for all policy areas, and in this respect it is not good enough in this country, in which we agree. And if I read the educational chapter in your government programme now, I have to say that is uninspired, and there are my hopes for you as Minister, Mr Fäsmann! I recall the 2013 educational programme, which was equally uninspired, but we were able to set a great deal of pace during the legislative period. For example, under the pressure of the opposition, a reform of education – which was not planned in 2013 – was also applied, and it brought at least some small steps in the right direction. When I look at the educational chapter, I see that the basic theme that is going through is: Breeding, order, fantasy, that with more breeding and order everything is going to be good; and combining that You'll be fined with sanctions. There are sanctions on each side of this educational chapter. Yes, I am also in favour of, for example, taking parents more into account, but I am opposed to something as important as the talents of our children, where it is a matter of blooming, unfolding, with an approach of breeding, order and sanctions. That's too little, that's uninspired, that's better, and we're going to keep the pressure high, for example on the issue of equal opportunities. I do not see anything in your programme to bring the right of opportunity to a higher level, but we all know how it is in Austria. The question: How does your education career and your career?, unfortunately, are too few of the questions in Austria: What is your talent?, What is your need?, What is your inclination?, depending on the questions: What is your father?, What is your mother?, What are the socio-economic backgrounds? – if you discuss it technically – depending. [[Abg. Cashier: You didn't read it!]] [[Abg. Rosary: What were your parents?]] . My proposal would have been, for example, Mr Rosenkranz, you have been to the teaching committee that we learn from the Netherlands – a bonus of opportunity, a social index as some call it – that we ensure the right of opportunity for young people to know that they also know: [[Abg. Rosary: What were your parents?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, I can get into the unfolding – or as always a ten-year-old, an eight-year-old, but they feel it, whether they have a chance or not. Too many today are dependent in this society; and this is the division of society that is being operated here, and this is intensified by your policy, as it is now established. Another disappointment with black and blue is of course that the cold progression should continue. You say you'll evaluate once. This corresponds to the wording in Austrian: We'll take a look. – So Black-Blue couldn’t even agree on what they both wanted, and that’s kind of weird. You both wanted to abolish the cold progression, then you've been dealing with it for a long time, and you've been negotiating each other's way – or how can you understand that? [[Congratulation with NEOS and list of fungus.]] Mr Kurz, Mr Strache, you recognize the brilliance of history by yourself, so that you have a community that is no longer. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Street.]] It shakes me as a citizen, when I am being suffocated each year by the Minister of Finance with the cold progression. Without parliamentary debate, people are drawn more out of the wallet each year. This is the money that is missing at the end of the month for the repair of the washing machine, for saving for a home, for a pension provision – we still come – or for a short break – for some it may be the only holiday in the year. But they say: No, we keep the automatic collection office, we can need the money. You will get 5 percent more of the people this year. The tax revenues are swirling like Arab oil sources. You chose a happy moment. It would be a position of strength, so that you might start reforming now, but no, you are leaning back and going into the unambition. That's wrong! [[Abg. Hauser: We want to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent!]] And even in tax plans, you are far too little concrete, quite unconcretely. We don't know how you'll make it. Then, if it is so imprecisely in the fog, of course, the hope is also small that sometime in the next few months this will become concrete. We will continue to exert pressure here – no question. Pensions – hallelujah! –: There was once a courageous JVP chief who said that the pensioners had to be able to change the system in such a way that our children can rely on this system for them too, because it is a generation contract that we have there. But they're going here and saying, Half of the contracting partners are not yet entitled to vote and therefore they are blunting us! - Otherwise, I can't interpret it. All the things that you, Sebastian Kurz, Josef Moser, have asked for, have disappeared from your mind, from your thoughts, from your ambitions: no pension automaticism, no flexipension, no earlier adjustment of the age of women's retirement – you can cut it flexibly, the Italians have done it in five years – all that is gone, all these earlier promises are sound and smoke. [[Call to the FPÖ: But this is not an example!]] Information freedom law: The blacks and the reds had it at least in the government programme, but they have postponed it half a year; and now you say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda]] No, we don't even write it into the government program. We want the official secret to continue. H.-C. Strache, Freedom Party, in that name there is freedom inside – give your heart a blow! [[Abg. Rosary: Freedom of choice!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator:... misunderstanding!]] The Austrian secret of office is the last one on this continent, which does not belong to a modern democracy! [[Consistency with NEOS and list of mushrooms as well as with the Abg. Drozda.]] There are, of us and of the Greens, a legacy here in Parliament. Take it here, finalize Take them with civil society and bring them to the vote! Total freedom: At chamber pressure, the FPÖ has gone into the horizontal, fallen down. Now you can say: Yeah, we didn't get rid of this chamber force!But that you have not even negotiated the social partnership out of the Constitution is a great disappointment. It didn't exist before, it didn't need it. They leave the chambers in the constitutional rank, they are the signal: Dear Chambers, you are immortal!, and this is the wrong signal, because then they do not try because they do not go in the direction of probation by performance. That's why I'm telling you: If you come to our door sometime on these questions of structural reforms for the two-thirds majority, then we will look at this topic again and you will not pass by it, we will make sure as friends of freedom. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Finally, direct democracy – this is, of course, also a crasher and an eye eraser. You know, you move it to the last day of the legislative period, and on that day nothing will succeed. To know this, we're all long enough in the business, even those who haven't been there for so long. Study what governments have usually done in recent months: nothing! One last thing is a personal pain and, as I think, a great concern for our country, namely the European theme. I think you're on the road with a double-duty that's hard to beat. Just on the day you are standing together at Kahlenberg and proclaiming your government, the right-wing populists and the extreme right-wings in Prague gather for a Europe-wide meeting, and just at this meeting, a member of the FPÖ is also present. On the one hill you proclaim Europe, and a few hundred kilometers further you are at a meeting where Le Pen and Wilders call for the destruction of the community work – uncaught! That's where the question arises: What do you think? – I interpret it so that, of course, this prose you have here – paper is patient – is not to be taken for full as long as you in fact reveal something else. It is also true that in Europe peace, prosperity and quality of life have brought us peace, prosperity; and it is true that the opposite has brought us blood and tears for centuries. Only the committed co-operation will lead us to a good future. I think that an Austrian government party should not have Le Pen, not Wilders, and not the AfD as political friends. Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe that you need to make it clear quickly. If congratulations come from the AfD, they say: “Austria will change dramatically. And I’m looking forward to it!’ then that’s wrong. If honourable Member Mayer takes part in such meetings, then this is wrong and then you can't get out of the affair with two, three well-formed sentences, but that's the paint must test for this government, for whether this government is actually about Europe or whether people are simply being shaken. I suspect that on the day the wind is back on its way, the Freedom Party will re-run the Öxit – and I fear that this day will come. As long as you move among these friends who want to do the same, you will remain a dangerous threat to the future of this country and future generations with your behavior. We will firmly resist this – whenever we can, wherever it seems appropriate to us, on every occasion!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6739	Mr Rosenkranz has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6760	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! ==References== In October 2017, the Austrians chose a change of direction, a change of direction. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has asked the chairman of the most powerful political group to move forward with government, and there have been talks with the parties. In the end, there were serious negotiations between two parties representing a stately strong majority in this House, parties who were elected because they had presented electoral programmes. Now, obviously, some people here are surprised that points that are contained in a electoral programme are actually being implemented. Obviously, this is something completely surprising. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But perhaps it's also the thought of the bad guy who's been thinking: Why do they do that? We've never adhered to our election promises, and they do it all at once? That's unheard of! – Yes, even in the selection of the coalition partner one has a certain lethargy, my rulers of social democracy, you may be able to deal with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] So, and then you've been put together, and the important thing was that there was really serious negotiations on content at first – about content, but you have to say in the many and big commons that there have still been and there are differences. I can also tell you the following: There are still two different, different parties working together here. This may also explain why some points that one wanted more than the other have not been able to get together. But that we fail only because of these points of this overall project, the majority, the clear majority of Austrians did not understand and would not want to. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There have been these negotiations. There have been these programmes, sections, clusters and the steering group, and many political observers and media representatives have said they are actually surprised and note how professionally these negotiations have been conducted, in particular what has affected information externally. We are very sorry that the media would have liked something else, namely perhaps every day any other sage with which one is interconnected or similar, because they were used to that. We have deliberately avoided that. There were professional negotiations with a clarification, which ministries should be there. Now there is also a comment on the Federal Ministerial Law, which is now present in spite of all birth pains: On today's day, there is already a need to be clear responsibilities with the necessary budget resources, so that our ministers can start at once and do not have to cross and cross the area and join together their responsibilities. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It was not until the last step, when the Ministry allocation was established, that it was about which personalities the ministries take over; and it is a remarkable mix of expertise from politics, science, economy, diplomacy and other fields. We have a clean solution here that we want to help break through today. During the debate on the elections to the President of two political groups, which I would like to address, it was a statement of speech, on the other hand an interlocutory call. I do not see Mr Jarolim, the gifted caller, who has already been greatly reduced. [[call to the FPÖ.]] He asked, as President Sobotka, if he had his sheet of notes. [[Call:Notebook]] - It was the sheet of notes. Or have you got something else - -? I know you're sitting in the back, but the sound system itself is good enough that you can hear everything and record it accordingly. I consider this undertone to be inadmissible to a musician in the so-called "cultural nation" of Austria, as they all so insanely call it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] As even more interesting, I feel the statement that Mr Sobotka is not qualified for the office because he is a politician who stands for Law and Order. What does that mean to a politician? – He stands for legality and order. Do you want someone who stands for illegality and disorder?- Oh, my God! Mr Klubobmann Kolba, I think you might want to do that. I'd trust you, too. We don't want that! [[Abg. Zinggl:... more musicality!]] I also say something else to you: This government has come up with some points that really burn people in this country under the nails – the key word security and the release of small and medium-sized incomes. All of this will happen. It is a special award that I see in the current opposition: There is a party, the great social democracy, which looks only at the workers; and there is a smaller opposition party, the NEOS, which looks only at the employers. We will not do that, this government does not divide these two important parts. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We recognize that successful economies are only possible with employers and employees. To this end, I say: The employer is not the one who scatters alms, he is usually also the one who has to work damn hard in self-employment himself if he wants to succeed. We have in mind the common economy of these two important actors. Therefore, there must be the necessary reliefs for both sides so that people can afford to work and thus achieve success, for it has become unfair. I have heard from the opposition that this government is getting colder in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it is exclusively the winter season that it gets colder, but not this government program. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I've heard that this government had a retro program that was turned backwards. Well, if I am on a mountain hike, take a path and get to a abyss sometime, then I don't jump down with my house mind either, but turn around and go back; or if I go into a dead end and find that, then I don't go against the wall, but go back and go back. And yes, the people in Austria really want some things to be returned. Let me give you a few examples: There are actually people in Austria who are longing for their children to read, count and write in school and nothing else. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are, in fact, people in Austria who are longing to find prosperity when they work and do something, and do not experience injustice that they are being slammed for something in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are indeed people in this country who are longing not to close their doors again without fear that they will immediately get somewhere into the house and clear out the bud as you say so beautifully. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] In fact, there are still people in this country who are so backward that they say: I would like my daughter to be able to come home in the darkness in the evening when she comes home from a friend. Yes, these retromen are there, and we will support these interests. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the remarks I have so far heard of the opposition, Klubobmann Strolz had differentiated considerations: Yes, the one will find itself, the other less. The one thing I just did not understand, Mr Klubobmann, is: They say it's all in the fog, but on the other hand, so much is committed. So what now? – Something has it now in the argument, even when you meant – at least you interpret –, you have the suspicion, well, that's nothing else. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He meant fog!]] The old federal chancellor, who is perhaps burdened with a certain disease – I understand the human total – has meant it is, it is. At least you argued differently, Mr Strolz. I would like to say one more thing to you: Yes, we would have liked to change some things, even what you have spoken about the chambers, but do you know what we have done – perhaps we have all grown up in an even better school system? . We have counted the mandates together and have come up with them, Mr Strolz, that your ten mandates are not enough. That's a problem, you might have to work on it, and then it could work. [[Abg. Stroll: In a short while there was already! There is now enough in the ÖVP!]] I can also tell you: It's never wanted us to know what's happening here in this republic. And, Mr. Kern, everything you have meant in your speech today is not working that way. What you've told us today is simply not true. [[Abg. Core: Do you think I'm the only one who's read your program?- Oh, my God!]] – It’s true, you can also read a lot of things and don’t have to understand some things, I would like to congratulate you. [[Abg. Core: That's true!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: It will definitely be fairer and safer in Austria after this legislative period of five years. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Let's see!]] After five years of government short/street, people in this country will say: That's what we want more! And there's really nothing you can do, dear Social Democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e6978	Thank you. Next item is the report by Mr Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7003	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens in front of the television screens, if you still watch us! Today, just before Christmas, the government has placed its government program on the gift table, and today at this meeting we will open up, look in, and see who can or must be afraid of it. Certainly, the donors and donors of the list can be pleased, because the gifts for the capital companies, for super-rich, for real estate sharks and also the protection of tax refugees are part of this program. In the housing chapter, for example, the government assumes that the most desirable form of residence is property. In the election campaign it was a little bit more formulated: If you cannot afford your rent, you should keep buying an apartment – not a tent, but an apartment. Young people who need mobility to complete their domestic and foreign education, who need mobility to work domestically or abroad, and who have little money that may work next to their studies to finance their studies now get the study fees on the eye and they are told in a highly cynical way that they should buy better housing in the form of real estate. I think that this is nothing but a drive program for the real estate sharks that have bought apartments and property in recent years, renovated apartments and wanted to bring them to the man, at a time when the properties are as expensive as ever. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The FPÖ has given up the interests of small men and women, which it has so much liked to represent in its electoral programmes, in exchange for the competence of security. She says Yes to a client policy of the ÖVP and is rewarded for this with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. And thus FPÖ has oversight of the armed institutions police and military in this country and of all three intelligence services in that Republic. This fullness of power, especially for a party that is always aware of the fact that it is not sufficiently opposed to right ideologies and groups, fills me with great concern, and Mr. Kurz will have the responsibility to do so if there is damage to the Republic. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So I prefer a decent intelligence service on a proper basis rather than your left-left cluster!]] – You can still shout like that, I will continue to give my speech. Of the proposed measures, if we look into the basin, the poorest in Austria will have nothing. The lower third of the incomes get nothing. The grandly announced family bonus will bring nothing to those families who do not pay enough taxes to take advantage of a deposit. 40 percent of the children in Austria will simply have nothing. The single women, the students, the poorest and weakest of our society are put under a general suspicion by you, and it is described exactly and detailed what you want to take away from these people. You will not find this detail in the fight against tax flight. Finally, asylum seekers are treated by you like serious criminals, they are to take the cash off and filter their phones. And the last proposal of this week was that they should also be transferred to mass quarters so that integration does not happen. It is a real shame how a rich country like Austria deals with people on the run. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The poison teeth of this program are not yet on the gift table. In the program we repeatedly read about evaluation, evaluation, evaluation at all sensitive points. What you want is to gain time, gain time, gain time, so that you can still bring the country elections into a state-of-the-art mode, and then the Austrian citizens will be able to see which poison teeth are still hidden in your program. [[Abg. Rosary: That's where you've been!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You don't even take part in the elections!]] Today, in a number of motions for resolutions, we will be making a test of what has become of your electoral programmes and the extent to which you are prepared to implement urgent measures for Austrian VW scandalists. These measures, namely collective actions in Austria, have been available as a government case in the drawers of the Ministry of Justice since 2007. I should like to ask the Minister of Justice to look at the ministry in which drawers they are hidden, but it is not a question of companies in Europe being able to carry out criminal fraud against consumers and public authorities. It is a state failure throughout Europe and in Austria, too, that this group is going through with it. In the US, VW has paid for damages and penalties over 20 billion euros. In Europe, there is an opaque software update and not a cent for the injured. This can only be done because we have neither a European nor an Austrian collective complaint at the time of the economic lobby. In Austria, this was included twice – no longer now – in the government programme and nothing has happened, one has always been prevented from implementing it. Now, at the end of this year, for the victims of this scandal, the possibility of complaining to the dealers will run out of limitation. And in September of next year, the possibility to claim damages against the VW Group in Germany will end. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request in the interest of 340 000 Austrians damaged by the VW scandal. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[17:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7183	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Haubner has now been referred to the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7207	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! First of all, as a representative of the economy and as economic spokesperson of my party to the Federal Government, I would like to bring the best of my congratulations and look forward to good cooperation. I can say that today we are experiencing a premiere, ladies and gentlemen, a government which is presenting a government programme that is without new burdens, a government programme that focuses on redundancies, a government programme in which redundancies play a very central role – reliefs in the area of taxes and taxes, discharges in respect of unnecessary regulations and redundancies in the case of excessive bureaucratic measures. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] In the negotiations on this government programme, we have combined many practical experiences and a lot of professional know-how. In this way, we can present today a programme that will certainly meet the requirements of the future. I would like to take the opportunity to thank my visa in the negotiations on taxes and finances, Dr Hubert Fuchs, who is now the State Secretary, and also Mr Kassager for the business chapter, for the many good days of negotiations on the content, and above all for the common orientation and for the common objective that we have pursued. It was a completely new situation for me, ladies and gentlemen, to have a negotiating partner who, as we have always done, has brought appreciation and recognition for the achievements of Austrian entrepreneurs – also a warm thank you! – a negotiating partner with which we could address the problems of the economy and the location and jobs. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] I would also like to thank you on behalf of more than 700 000 self-employed people in our country. In fact, we have set up impulses that will accordingly continue our economic location in Austria, impulses for securing and creating new jobs, for increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy and for the further internationalisation of our export industry, as well as for flexible working hours and more spaces and for digital Austria. I would just like to take out the impulse that Mr Kern has already tailored to today and which is very important from the point of view of employees and entrepreneurs, namely flexible working hours. I am of the firm conviction that: Let us give both more freedom to decide together how they want to divide work and, above all, their free time. Just work when work is there, and take time when you need it. And how many times have I heard from the employees during my business visits: I want to be able to finish my work and not put my work down after eight hours of rigid concept, but if it takes one or two times longer, stay at home once or start in the early future, can have breakfast with the family. – Yes, mine Ladies and gentlemen, this is what people want: working flexibly and agreeing on a business-level partnership, and that is what we can do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a representative of the economy, I say quite clearly also in the direction of social democracy: If you always paint this horror on the wall that we want every day to work twelve hours, I tell you quite clearly: We don't want to. We simply want more freedom for employees and more freedom for entrepreneurs, and they should decide for themselves what is good for both sides. That is what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Our next focus is relief and not burdened. We are in a high tax country, we know that the tax and tax rate is almost 44 percent. That is why we want to put more money into the pocket for all – families, entrepreneurs and employees – and that is why we want to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent by the end of the legislative period – an ambitious goal, but you will see, we will make it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Digitalisation will be a very important priority. The Internet has fundamentally changed our lives. Whether small or medium-sized enterprises, EPUs or industry, whether creative industry or gastronomy, is digital everywhere, and we remain the choice between data-highway and panstrips. We have opted for the Highway, so from now on there is also a Ministry of Digitalization and Economy and Margarete Schramböck a minister who carries digitization in her DNA, a minister who knows what she is talking about, and who will do exactly what is necessary to lead Austria into this digital future. Welcome, Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying: We are all – employees, entrepreneurs, and those who can help create the framework conditions that we all have work and income. Let's go along the way for a successful Austria, because together it's just better!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7297	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7319	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous government, and hence social democracy, is handing over a country with a strong economy, with high employment, with declining unemployment and with good social cohesion. The question now is: Is that gonna stay that way? - I'm afraid, not compelling. [[Abg. Little: It's getting better!]] The explanation that we have heard today from the Federal Chancellor raises the question: In what direction will the country go? The statement itself was much more empty than the government program, which can be downloaded on the Internet, and it will not help us with the fact that the new government spokesman has already written an e-mail that we can gladly contact him, because this is not the form of parliamentary discussion that the government spokesman says to the honourable Member: If you have any questions to the government, then call me or write me an e-mail, no, the political debate must take place here in Parliament. Therefore, I would have expected that the presentation of the government program by the Federal Chancellor would have included one, two, three contents in addition to the hollow phrases. – Shame, it wasn't. It doesn't matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second interesting thing is: Normally, it is also expected that the individual members of the government, called ministers, will speak and say what they are planning in their area – today does not happen, as yesterday at the Council of Ministers, as everyone goes by the journalists with a moustache, because in the new government only two speak briefly, that is, short and straight, and then sometimes rather holding back and despairing the government spokespersons as yesterday in the “ZIB 2”. I don't think that's okay, because I would have expected every minister and every minister of yours to be allowed to say a little what he or she stands for. We will wait for it to be heard at the latest in the Committee. Perhaps Mr Launsky's speech manuscripts are already required so that everyone can make a speech. At the same time, we experience the song of Schwarz-Blau I – in the Vienna Landesgericht. There is the trial in which Black-Blue I is sentenced for all that it has done, namely the people in this country have stolen, and that is a good thing. I just hope we don't get back to court with Black Blue II. The responsibility lies with you that this does not happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: This is so cheap!]] Well, it's not that cheap! To be honest, what happened! Not cheap at all! You're a cynic! It's not cheap! The whole BUWOG has been ruined – and you say: cheap. After that is typical; I think you're already working on a new plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Hands out of citizens' pockets, I'll tell you! Hands out of citizens' pockets! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: But this is a very late self-reflection!]] [[Abg. New builder:..., this is a shame!]] The self-reflector today was the colleague Strache when you listened. So be careful, or else get Then at the club meeting, take one to the cap! That's not good! [[Abg. Rosary: What you've gotten out of the citizens' pockets, it doesn't go on cow's skin at all!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Go to the municipal council in Vienna! It's not enough anyway!]] The ÖVP has documented: “Time for New”. What's the matter? – Step back: 12-hour day, smoking, study fees, education step back. The FPÖ has documented that she is there for the little man. What happened? – The socially weak are the first to be left in the rain: Reduction of resources for labour market policy, so that unemployment does not fall, but remains high. What else is being done? – Social reduction, Hartz IV is being introduced, the child bonus is coming, but what has been promised, namely that the single parents get something of it, does not happen. A third of those who should get this don't get it. That's cynical social policy, so it's clear what's happening. [[Abg. Rosary: In what reality, in what parallel universe do you actually live in?]] Interesting is also a view of rental law. [[Abg. New builder: This is the case with Mrs. Wehsely!]] [[Abg. Rosary: You live in a parallel universe!]] The rental right is one - what you want - of the house owner. It's also in the government program inside – no one dared say it –: Property, that's the new freedom. This is so free after Marie Antoinette: If there's no bread, eat cake! If there's no rent right, keep buying apartments! – This is cynicism from the cottage quarter of the 12th century. District, where Mr. Kurz grew up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Labour market policy: The FPÖ has still pasted: No irregular admission of cheap workers into the labour market! What are you doing? - Come on! So that cheap chefs come in and no – and the poor cooks who are already here do not get a job at all. This is the free labour market policy that is being concluded; it is bad and disgraceful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: Where are the cooks? Where are the cooks, Mr. Arbitrator?]] It will also introduce tuition fees, and the ÖH will immediately be written into the government programme: In the future, high schooling may only deal with more narrow issues of interest and no longer express itself. That is also the mouthing of the representation of interest! [[Abg. Rosary: Don't throw her after slices, that's right! No one is allowed to do that.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] So, now the question remains: Why all this? Why? And that's where we have to look back at the election campaign. There was Mr Pierer, who said quite openly and honestly: I have a wish, that is, the 12-hour day, and for the fulfillment of this wish I give you money! And what happens now? - Now comes the 12-hour day. This is a kind of policy that I really don't think is right, neither in terms of content nor morals, I must tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: This is a long-standing call from the Economic Federation, Mr. Scheider!]] [[Abg. Rosary: So we have seen the morale of social democracy in the election campaign!]] And: What is missing in the government programme? – The fight against tax refugees, the fight against legal and illegal tax evasion: no longer inside. A climate strategy that can be used to meet global warming: no more words inside. We are going to make the worst thing with you today, namely by submitting applications that will show: How do you keep it with Ceta, how do you keep it with the study fees, how do you keep it with the smoking ban – what did you say before the choice and what to do You after? We want the incident you're doing to be documented here, too, so that people know what they're doing with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you make interesting personal rochaden: Zack, colleague Gudenus comes to the house as a clubman and says in the first interview that he wants to focus the refugees in the future on the outskirts of the city. – This is, of course, the way you shouldn’t do it, and there you don’t need to polemize somehow. That only shows your true character, and that is so disgraceful, because that is exactly the opposite of what the Viennans want. The Viennans want people to be integrated here, get a job and live their lives – and not that they can create a wretched neighborhood on the outskirts of the city, where people will be quite worried again, Mr. Gudenus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it's quite simple: Show me your friends, and I know who you are! This is Mrs. Le Pen, and these are the jubilees of the far right AfD on the Internet, who say we are already looking forward to Austrian politics. [[Abg. Svazek: Silver Stone!]] – Show You're finally back! That's the shame of Austria, what's happening here! If you do not want to sit in a boat with them, get out of this European group and say that you do not want this praise from the AfD! Come out and tell me! It would be high time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7600	Mr Arbitrary, I have now listened for a while to what You have said, and please respect the dignity of the house and be moderate in the choice of words. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: And what bothers you? What's bothering you? You have to say that too!]] – The accusation of damage to Austria and before - - “To the shame of Austria” you said! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, it is true!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Damage! Harm!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: “Stolen” you also said!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Listen! Listen! Catastrophic Presidency!]] Please continue your speech now, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7689	I'll be right there. The truth is: The FPÖ wanted to go to the government, because today's vice chancellor has known that's his last opportunity. The other truth is: Today's Federal Chancellor Kurz has also known, it has to go quickly, because he absolutely wants to become Federal Chancellor. What we have forgotten is the future of Austria, the further development of our country, these are the answers to the challenges of the future. What you are doing is to make politics for a few in this country, namely for the upper ones, and to deceive and betray the many others in our society. They split society, and that's not a good way for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7722	Mr Gudenus. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7743	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Da- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, the best congratulations to today's government declaration. I think the paper that has been presented today and has also been known for the last few days, these 180 pages, which is a lucky case for Austria. It has always been said that there are no lighthouses in it. I say the government program is a lighthouse. What is a lighthouse for? – A lighthouse serves for orientation and a lighthouse serves to avoid damage. And precisely for this, this government programme is there and is also fulfilling its very purpose. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If I stand here today, in my first speech as a executive clubman, this fills me with great joy: a great day of change. The change is also really noticeable here in the hall. Much has changed: Some are sitting on the opposition bank that used to be sitting elsewhere. Some, on the other hand, sit on the government bank, which used to be sitting somewhere else. Others are in the high house for the first time, like my person. I have today, with interest, followed the speech of Mr. Kern, but also the speech of Mr. Schieder, and I think only of one thing: You have shown again today what the old government and what the SPÖ is breaking down on: cynicism, your own choice of words, missing sight. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have had eleven years to do better! You have had eleven years to disarm the accusations you are making to us, which we have just come into office. You failed on all levels! That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mr. Schieder comes out of here today and is already preparing for the party-internal election campaign: You know, in Vienna the SPÖ-Obmann will soon be re-elected, and we know the old saying: Simmering against Kapfenberg, that's brutality! This is surpassed by arbitration against Ludwig, which is the true brutality, ladies and gentlemen. But it will not be enough for you, Mr Schieder, if you say that the Viennans really want to integrate the so-called refugees. – What the Wiener wants is that illegal immigration will end under the cover of asylum law. That's what the Viennans want, that's what the Austrians want! [[New congratulations to the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Viennans, the Austrians do not want Vienna to be a magnet for illegal migrants, who only come here to secure the highest level of minimum security. The Viennans do not want that and the other Austrians do not want it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And precisely because of this, this new Federal Government has negotiated, written down very ambitious plans and will implement them that this minimum security is no longer a magnet for illegal migrants and for social migration. It cannot be that our country, our Austria, is available as a world social office for the whole world. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It seems that Mr. Kern took away his core competence from his time when he was still the head of the railway section, namely the core competence of derailment. I have not heard as many derailments as today in a speech, Mr. Kern. And if you have quoted and said today from the “faust” of Mr. Goethe, everyone is waiting for the Mephisto to appear: You know exactly how the Faust, Mr Mephisto. He says: “So that” is “the pudel’s core!” [[Cheerfulness and applause at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer dealing with the past, we are talking about the future, we are talking about the really good government programme, which is now also being implemented for the next five years, very ambitious, we are talking about the fact that the government programme has a broad scope, that it is viable, that it is well-balanced that it really offers something for all levels of society, for all layers in the country, for man and woman, for all ages, and that it will certainly turn the future to better. It is forward-looking, and I can only congratulate the new ministerial government and the two Black and Blue negotiating teams that such a great future-oriented programme has come about. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's a red and white-red program with a strong blue handwriting, but if you ask me who actually made more progress in the negotiations, the Turks or the Blues – that's always the big question of negotiations – then I always say, and it's also true: Reason has prevailed! And it is precisely this reason that the government programme is also supported. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know, and it has been discussed today: Our home country, our society faces major challenges and changes: Technologisation, digitization, global competition, growing income differences, global migration, growing age pyramids and social requirements. The list is extremely long, and the changes are becoming faster and faster, but at the same time the opposites in our society are growing: Progress and tradition, young and old, rich and poor, freedom and security, machine and man. These are all the opposites that our society is challenging more and more, but precisely these opposites have been further intensified under a SPÖ Chancellor over the past eleven years, and now we have to do this damage to ÖVP and FPÖ, and we will do it too! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] And this new government has set itself the goal of seeing these very challenges that I have just quoted as a great opportunity. We are becoming old structures and we have to question them. We must, of course, break up old structures, if necessary, and we have the best programme and the best minds on the government bank that we can imagine. Values and actions are more important to this government than road shows or stagings, Mr. Kern! Actions, not just words and, above all, no stagings! ==References====External links== ==References====External links== We act together, and that is important. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This new government is also more important to prosperity and security than the mood of a few fewer officials. Prosperity and security for the entire population, which is important, is in the foreground, we want to ensure that. Now only a few points that have been particularly positive in the programme. Article 1 B-VG has already been mentioned: The “right goes from the people.” – That’s why we sit here in the National Council, and that the aspect of direct democracy is gradually being strengthened in the coming years, which is a great success of the government negotiations and is also a major milestone in this government programme. That's good! Or: a comprehensive tax reform. It has already begun with the relief of the smaller incomes. We want to step up the tax and tax rate. It is important to relieve people in a high tax country, which people have earned. This is also clearly defined in the programme. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the government program, we have a family bonus plus, with which we ensure that parents are relieved up to 1,500 euros per year and child. This is also a further step towards discharge, which is also important, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is a real discharge, because I believe that pizza delivery does not really compensate for a real discharge. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When we look at foreign policy: It has already been said today that it is important to show that Turkey has no place in the European Union. Yes, a good partnership, why not? But a country in which more journalists are in prison than in China, a country whose president is abdicating more and more power, a country that is increasingly moving away from European values, a country in which Islamism is increasingly concerned, which in the end results in many Turks in Austria and in Europe increasingly being captured by this Islamism, yes, such a country, ladies and gentlemen, has lost nothing in the European Union! We have also made that very clear. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Mahrer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day: I believe that the greatest task of this federal government is to encourage people to give them confidence and, above all, to make one very clear: We are in favour of our children and children being better in the future. This is the main task of a federal government. In this sense, I wish the Federal Government all the best. You will certainly have the greatest support from our political groups, and I assume that other groups too will succeed because reason will prevail. I wish you a happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7940	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e7961	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! First of all, warm congratulation for fishing to all of you. You will take on a very important task in this country, and an essential part of this important task is that you have responsibility for protecting the constitutional rights of Austrians guaranteed in Austria. If you look at the government programme in this context, you can see that this government programme is a real joy in collecting data, in monitoring the Austrians, and I find that highly disturbing. I am already used to this by the monitoring party ÖVP; Klubobmann Wöginger once again showed how insensitive he is dealing with data from the Austrians. We know this from the storage of data, we know that from your proposals to the Federal Trojan. It is this old unspirit of the surveillance state that one in principle suspects the population and monitors it as smoothly as possible. That's something that's very deep inside the DNA of the ÖVP, and so I don't wonder, and that's nothing new, that's quite, very old. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have said that you take the criticism of the opposition very seriously and look forward to it, and I have to say that it is totally obscene to me why the FPÖ, which rightly criticised this security package before the election, has fallen down so quickly in the security area. Mr Kickl, you will be the one who is the leader in the field, and I would like to ask you if you know the following quote: “The security package, which is massively forced by the ÖVP [...], marks that authoritarian pattern of thinking within the People’s Party, which is also reflected in their state-political ideas.” – That’s on 26. The following are to be sent on July: Herbert Kickl, General Secretary of the FPÖ. You may find the following more familiar: “The planned transfer of data to municipal building masters, the planned use of the Federal Trojan, which allows not only the communication of the suspect, but also the monitoring of all data on the device or the data on the devices of a third party, is well above the target.” – Posted on 26. July 2017: Herbert Kickl, General Secretary of the FPÖ. My favorite quote is still coming: “All in all, this package reminds us of Erich Mielke’s fantasies, as Minister of State Security, who was one of the main responsibility for the development of the comprehensive DDR control and surveillance system.” – Copyright: Herbert Kickl, General Secretary of the FPÖ. Minister of the Interior, let me tell you something: They were perfectly right. They have just fallen down as quickly as no one has ever done in this Republic, and are now carrying this unscrupulous security package of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] What you called graces five months ago is now obviously absolutely fine. All these surveillance measures are obviously all right when you are in power, which is still to an extent, in a wealth of power that I really think is worrying. The FPÖ has the hand on the police, has the hand on the federal army, has the hand on all the intelligence services. Perhaps that's also the reason why you're doing all this right now, because now you're on the lever and can collect all this data, use all these monitoring measures. That's more than worrying. You have, by virtue of power, given your principles clearly to the entrance door of the Ministries and are now taking part in this inconceivable monitoring package. I'll tell you something. There were three parties here in the House, which were usually agreed on when it came to advocating attention that one is opposed to monitoring measures and to the freedom of the citizens of Austria. The Greens have fled from Parliament, the FPÖ has obviously thrown all its principles overboard to come to power. I guarantee you that we NEOS will remain faithful to us, that we will always be able to take measures of surveillance by the Federal Government - – of course, Mr Lausch! [[Abg. Listen, you don't believe that!]] The difference between you and me is that the freedom of the citizens in Austria is my concern that I have the privacy and fundamental rights of the people of Austria and that you give it immediately if you have a foothold in the door of a ministry. [[Abg. Lausch: You can see that in the EU anyway!]] This is the big difference between the NEOS and the FPÖ. They give everything for power, and you don't care about fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8043	Thank you. Mrs Krenn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8067	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Honourable Members of the House! Dear visitors to the gallery and in front of the TV! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me at the beginning of my speech a few personal words. When I was praised as a parish councillor 22 years ago in my home town of Pürgg-Trautenfels, I was very proud; sitting in front of you today fills me with joy. At the same time, however, I am addressing my new challenge with humility and respect. Keeping in touch with people, listening, understanding problems and making each other better Austria, I will do so with conviction and in many discussions with all the colleagues here in the House. [[General condolences.]] As an innkeeper, I am used to speaking and, above all, to meeting everyone with respect and appreciation. I look forward to constructive cooperation. But now to the government programme: For an innkeeper it is not surprising that I am pleased with the clear commitment of the Federal Government to our tourism industry. Austria has over 90 000 tourism and leisure businesses. These give 770 000 full-time workers a good job. It is a large economic sector that has succeeded in positioning Austria as a holiday, leisure and recreation country in recent years. For me, our Austria is the most beautiful country in the world. Nevertheless, competition does not stop before us either. We need to develop and develop the success of recent years, because other countries are becoming increasingly attractive to holidaymakers. Together, it must be a concern to improve framework conditions in tourism, especially for employees to make much more practical, to take advantage of digitalisation opportunities and to work out priorities together. It is about many thousand jobs – 90,000 businesses and 770,000 full-time workers – but it is also about our Austrian brand. Our ski racers and ski racers, our winter athletes generally do for our tourism giants. But we need to move our children back to these sports, making them more manageable. Support for school skiing courses and winter sports weeks must be possible so that we get the enthusiasm for this sport, also in the interest of tourism. Thank you also for this confession. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am particularly pleased, however, that VAT is reduced from 13 to 10 per cent. This brings a huge tax relief. A further reduction in additional labour costs and reliefs for farm transfers are also planned. Thank you for the initiatives. Then we have the topic of smoking, which has been discussed in the media in recent years. What's true? – The new regulations do not bring about a change in the gastronomy sector, but an enhanced law on greater non-smokers protection for young people. For me personally, the commitment is important that there is a practical implementation in the area of employee protection under 18 years. It is obvious that not everyone is satisfied with this agreement, but I can say that in a coalition it is not always possible to impose its opinion on 100 percent. The gentlemen will give me the right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased to work with you here in the House for the next five years. As an innkeeper and mayor, I come from practice. The people in my home are used to working for them and for their concerns. Direct work with people will continue to be my focus, because I know from personal experience what situations of life and what fates people can suddenly face. To help them and to support them is my primary goal. For this I will use my martial spirit and all my strength. In this sense, we will work together for the people of this country. A steiric luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8137	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Zadić is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8158	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The social cold moves like a red thread through the new government programme. The losers of the government programme are the poor and the poorest, the single women and their children as well as people in need. The promised family bonus is actually a tax bonus that prefers well-deserving, while bad earner goes out empty. You don't have to be an expert to predict the extent of the social sheath. In the area of migration and integration policy, the focus is on demarcation and demarcation. [[Abg. Singer: But no!]] We are miles away from real integration measures and, above all, integration impulses. It looks as if the government is deliberately trying to prevent integration, after all, it is the fears associated with migration and lack of integration that have been the main motive for the choice of the two government parties. It is not much better in terms of security policy either. Security must not be an excuse for restricting our rights and freedoms. After the reading of the government programme, however, my worst fears have occurred. [[Abg. Singer: Go Alma! That's not true, you know that!]] There is the decision of the Security Package to enable the monitoring of Internet-based communication. The speech is of course about the Federal Trojan. This will not only capture the communication of a suspect, but also all the data of a smartphone as well as the data of third parties. These and many other measures allow expansive data collection, which will be available for big data analyses. We are already very close to a surveillance state, coupled with the expansion of the field recognition. Mr Kickl, you vehemently criticized the proposal of the ÖVP monitoring package a few months ago, and I am pleased that Mr Scherak of the NEOS has also taken this up. They have brought this into line with the control and surveillance system of the GDR. With this law, you said, one would push the door into a pointed system. I can only give you that right. Why Stand But now you're not going to do it anymore. Your word? Your party colleague, Mr Rosenkranz of the FPÖ, was very much of our opinion and said that he did not want a dense monitoring network, but rather a state of fundamental rights and constitution. Yeah, that's what we want from the list of mushrooms. We want a state that respects fundamental rights, freedoms and, above all, human rights. Minister of the Interior! Do not break the promises you have made to your voters, and do not fall over, but stand up to quote your words, like a bulwark in front of the fundamental and freedom rights! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8211	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Next speaker: Mr Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8235	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I am, on the one hand, a constitutional speaker and, on the other hand, a judicial speaker, and as my previous speakers have just referred to the security package, I agree to begin with this issue. I am perfectly right that the monitoring measures and the data collections are a very big problem of our time, and I am also a vehement opponent of surveillance in the broad. Therefore, there are also very clear statements and very clear definitions in this government programme – monitoring in depth: yes, in width: no. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also know the possibility of the big noise attack. There, too, is the same problem that my previous speaker raised, that all circumstances of life, all data of a person can be sucked off, and that of course also involves non-participants who have contact with that person. But there are very clear legal requirements, and of course there must also be these requirements if I am monitoring the entire communication, i.e. a medium or a mobile phone, because, as you rightly say, everything can be intercepted. But that's just the consideration – in the width: no, into the depth: yes. If you look at the government programme, you will find, for example, on the first pages in the chapter “Administrative reform and constitution” on “Digital location Austria”: ‘Providing safe mobile interactions from citizens to state and vice versa’. – You haven’t read anything like that so far, that’s a very clear indication that we are aware of this issue. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Further: ‘Forcing Austrian companies to develop public digital products’. . We are aware that it is important that we create this infrastructure ourselves, and if Austria is not able to do so, it must be done by the European Union, because these are very essential points in order to enable the secure communication of its own people. If you are now addressing the issue of security – including Mr Scherak – I should like to point out to you that on page 31 of the government programme, it is quite clear that “no mass monitoring should occur”. [[Abg. Scherak: What about the Trojan?]] – The Trojan is not a mass monitoring! Then don't understand the Trojan. The Trojan is a very concrete program that is applied to a device. There are also different variants of how the Trojan is used. I need for each operating system, for each device a private Trojan, which goes exactly on a device and therefore reads out this device. [[Abg. Kassinger: The Trojan horse did not use them everywhere, but only in one city!]] This is not mass-effective, it is a very concrete measure against a person. Of course, those who communicate with them are seen. But this is like the big noise attack, there are all those who have communication with the person. But there is also a ban on the use of evidence in this programme in the Chapter on Justice, which says exactly that: For example, if a surveillance measure was illegal, it would not be possible to use these results. We have been very careful about this. If you're already quoting Minister of the Interior Kickl, that's exactly the point. We are lucky that he is the Minister of the Interior, that he will pay close attention to these things, and we will also prove here that we naturally focus on the security of the population. That's quite clear. Of course, we have to take targeted measures in order to be able to prosecute criminals, so we probably have to be able to look into WhatsApp, for example. It can't be that one says: Such a possibility of communication is simple for the police sacrosanct. However, this measure must be taken under the rules of law. We guarantee this and for that we also have the Minister of the Interior Kickl. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the subject of administrative reform and constitution: I know that the word 'administrative reform' can no longer be heard, but it is a particular concern for us to rethink certain things in a fundamental way. This is about bringing together tasks, expenditure and financing responsibilities. This is an essential point, and I am very confident that, with the Minister responsible, Dr. Moser, we also have a partner in the government, who is putting these things into practice with us. We are not at all concerned with destroying or subversing federalism, but we are concerned with making clear division of competence and then making a merger between a revenue and an expenditure responsibility, because that is the essential problem that we currently have on the subject of financial compensation and federalism, which is just the difference. One takes in, the other gives up – that doesn't work. That's what we're going to work on. I know we're gonna drill hard boards here. This is a Hercules task, but we are committed to this task, and I am confident to be here for the benefit of Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The speaking time is very short, therefore only one point that I personally see as a lighthouse: We have planned a real improvement in the right to vote in this government programme. We of the FPÖ have always strongly criticized the fact that the principles of electoral law are not guaranteed at the time of the election of the letter, that is free, that is to say unimpeded, and to be able to choose secret. That is why we have now provided in this programme that you need to pick up the postcard personally. In other words, there must be a personal contact with the community, and there is the possibility that one can immediately give his voice, in a room where one cannot be observed and can not be influenced, where someone else cannot fill in or put under pressure. On the one hand, we create the possibility of continuing to be able to vote flexibly, because it is often a concern for the people not only to vote on the electoral day, but on the other hand, the principles of electoral law are guaranteed, and at the same time a service is created for the citizens. I am very proud that we have implemented this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you read the government programme carefully, you will rightly say that it is partly something general, in part it is concrete. But we will do everything we can to implement what is inside here, and if we do, then we have made a great deal of progress for this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8323	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Next speaker: Mrs Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8348	Mr Stefan! They talked about the lighthouses. As the first details from the government programme from which negotiations have been sent out, a former member of the ÖVP said: ‘These lighthouses are for fear.’ He was right. And what I want to add is: They are not only for fear, but they also shine backwards. That's what I also find extremely unfortunate. In my speech, I would like to focus on the field of education. The increase in educational opportunities for children, for young people in this country, has been very important to us in the last few years of our government, a central concern, where we have gone a long way, too slowly, I am quite right for Mr Strolz, who is impatient. I share your impatience, it has been hard to carry on here, but it has been an important concern for us, and we have fought very much at all levels, from elementary education to school to universities. If you read through the government program, you can see: It is no longer a question of increasing the opportunities for more individual funding, but the red thread that passes through the educational chapter are more selection and more sanctions. I also very much regret that we have not heard more detailed statements in the two statements on the Government Declaration. And I was actually quite upset that the issue of education, opportunities for the boys did not matter – neither with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic nor with Mr. Vice-Chancellor. If you look through the government programme, it becomes clear: More funding in kindergarten should be available only for the children you find need it. On the other hand, it would be important for all children to receive more support, because all children need promotion – every child in its own way and elsewhere. [[Abg. Kassinger: This is the socialist principle of casting, we do not want to!]] For the little ones, there should be notes again. We know from many scientific research and also from discussions with dedicated educators/pedagogues, with parents that both the students, the children and the parents have much more of a differentiated feedback and can start much more with it. It's supposed to be a talent check already in the 3. Give a class. What's going on? This is the first time the decision has been made on the future educational path. Great? There should be admission procedures for the AHS. It's been a long time since this was abolished – long before my time, long before I became politically active. And that's where you want to turn the wheel of time back. At the universities there will again be tuition fees, access restrictions, and the Austrian high school will be limited to a service facility and the political mandate will be withdrawn from it. We feel that the study fees are particularly painful. By the way, the Freedom Party abolished these tuition fees with us a few years ago, for good reason, because the tuition fees introduced under Schwarz-Blau I led to the fact that almost every fifth student finished his studies. And as we know, it is to a large extent students who come from parents' homes where it is difficult to finance the study. If that's true now, which is what inspires us to think that in the future the tuition fees should be EUR 5 000 a year, then that's already a sum that's very difficult to spend on an average parents' home. They all know: More than half of the students are already working to finance their studies, so they have to work more. There it is already very cynical when you say the whole thing is under the title, we want to shorten the study duration by making it so that people can no longer afford the studies by having fewer possibilities for examinations and so fall from the university. This is not the way we imagine. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister Fässmann, I am looking forward to a constructive cooperation with you and would like to point out to you that I have read today – I am sorry that you can't make a statement here – that you have a presentation of priorities and time priorities and that the study fees are not the number one thing in time prioritisation. At the last National Council meeting, we submitted an application concerning the repair of the study grant for students working in the labour market. Perhaps we could make this repair together as a first step, because if we do not act here, then exactly those who work must now pay tuition fees. That's not in our sense. Perhaps we can create a common solution here. If it's not the one we brought in, maybe another, but it would be important that we find a common solution. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kolba.]] [[18:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8460	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Member's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8488	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Leave first Mr President, I should like to thank all the Members of the Bun- I would like to congratulate the government and state secretaries on their appointment, on their fishing observation, and also thank them for their willingness to take over these offices. This is an equally honorable and, of course, often difficult task. But I also welcome you in my name, of course also on behalf of my group, to the most cordial welcome and wish you all the best in your work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the course of the change in my activity here after the election, I have found a new field of activity in my club, a new subject which is not so far away from my professional activity, but which has never been my focus here in the house, namely the finances and the budget. I have recently been a chairman of the Committee on Finance and also a member of the Committee on Budgets. And I like to do this for a number of reasons. On the one hand, as a Vorarlberger coming from a federal state that has been dedicated to this for many, many years, and that also manages not to make a net debt in its budget, I think I am quite able and predestined to make a contribution here. On the other hand, as an entrepreneur, it is also customary to deal with money carefully or to separate very carefully between necessary investments and the constant questioning of costs and expenditure. And that will probably be one of the tasks in the future. But I am aware – and I was also aware of this when choosing this topic – that we certainly have a subject here, where we will often have to differ deeply between government groups and opposition parties. That's not why I chose it, but I realize that's what comes to us. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, can assume – you know me – that we will also discuss these differences which we will have in worldly terms there or there very decently, at eye level, civilized with each other and will either bring together or not then make decisions, but always after a previous ordinary discussion on the matter. Austria has one of the highest tax rates in the world. It is only Belgium, France, Denmark, Sweden, Norway in front of us. And my access has always been to the fact that the level of a tax quota in a country is, at the end of the day, also an expression of the extent of state interference in people's lives and, in addition, of course, the efficiency of state systems. Now it will not surprise you if I tell you that for me, for my group, the level of the tax rate in Austria is definitely too high for this government coalition, because our state is taking too much action in people's lives and also leaves the efficiency of fulfilling the state's tasks there or there to be desired properly. That is why we have made a very serious and serious effort to reduce the level of the tax and tax rate. We will also be able to achieve this step by step. We start – it has already been said several times – with the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes. After that comes the family bonus. Then comes the abolition of cold progression. Moreover, the reduction in additional wage costs, especially in the accident insurance sector, comes from 13 to 10 per cent in VAT reduction, and last but not least, the reduction in corporate tax comes to unscathed profits – to name only the most essential things. Another point is that we want to simplify the tax system dramatically, reducing bureaucracy. I only mention the word wage calculation as an example that is damn complex and complicated, but also the social security system is a good example. On the other hand, we want those who supply their taxes properly and decently are not fools in this country. That is to say, we want to fight the tax relief from the country, so that, as I said, not the stupid ones in this country, who fulfil their duty in good and proper manner and thus contribute to the financing of the community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, besides the financial and budgetary speakers of the individual political groups, of course, the Minister of Finance and his State Secretary will be partners for me and my work. I am looking forward to working with you, Mr Minister, with you, Mr State Secretary, and, of course, with all the members of the Federal Government, but in particular with both of you. Mr Minister, in the few days when we have now come to know each other, I have already come to know and appreciate you as someone who is interested in the thing that is very well founded on things. This is also my access to these issues: Matter before emotion – which is also part of it in life, but I think reality is doing very well when it comes to finance. In this sense I wish myself and look forward to a very good cooperation. I wish you and your colleagues all the best. Good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8557	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Next speaker: Mrs Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8581	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A good government begins with a good government program. So one could say in the alternation of a well-known quote. [[Abg. Singer: Thank you for the flowers!]] A good government programme is a government programme that contains clearly defined objectives and measures that are also well described, because clearly defined objectives are the prerequisite for a result-responsible. The Minister of Justice and Reform, in his capacity as President of the Court of Auditors, has repeatedly called for a result – rightly so. If one measures the government programme in this direction – does it have clearly defined objectives? – then you can see that there are many gaps or additional needs. [[Abg. Lugar: Close, I would suggest!]] This is particularly true in the field of administrative reform. The administrative reform is, could be said, a permanent burner. So I think there has hardly been a government in recent decades that has not undertaken to reform the administration. There were commissions, impressive reports – and then, in general, almost nothing was implemented. Mountains have cried out, a little mouse was born, you can say. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why is that so? We have no lack of ideas on how to reform the administration. What we have is an implementation problem. The government programme remains very non-binding. In order to do something, one will have to motivate and, in case of need, sanction, otherwise everything will be the same as in the past: Nice plans, but nothing comes out. A further point is necessary in this context: If you really want to reform the administration, you also have to make visible what is happening there. We still have – Matthias Strolz has already said that – the veil of the official secret that covers a lot. This secret of office should finally – and unfortunately nothing in the government's programme – turn away from the right to freedom of information. It'd be high time for that. Finally, I would like to say something positive. I am also the judge of my group. The government programme provides for the reduction of court fees. We are European champions of court fees, just as we are in party funding. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to reduce court fees. He's been prepared for a long time. But now I am glad that this is also in the government programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8637	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8662	My highly esteemed Madam President! The German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, I think, have just gone smoking, but that was granted to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Griss, I am pleased that you will be the chairman of the future Committee on the Court of Auditors. I should also like to be the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors of my group, and you will see that we are discussing very objectively, very solution-orientedly in this committee. I assume that it will not end as it was in the past period, where everything has always been alternated and every approach of the Court of Auditors, which it has put into its recommendations, has been pushed, so to speak, but I assume that exactly what we all wanted, namely, real reforms through the approaches, through the Court of Auditors' solutions. I am therefore good at the fact that the former President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors, Josef Moser, has mainly negotiated these agendas and is now to be implemented as a reform minister. I'm good and I'm convinced that something will happen here. That is why I also understand your clubman Matthias Strolz very well, who is almost already giving us roses, because he realizes that something will continue in this country, that something has happened in this country, that the red-black-crustled system of power begins to break through a turquoise-blue government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stroll.]] Mr Strolz! I'm proud you realized. I am also pleased about your constructive-critical – that is okay – contributions. You will see, it will also be in Parliament, I think, a new wind will blow when the opposition is ready to cooperate properly. I also recognize this with the charming ladies on the list of mushrooms, who say quite well here, it is not all the way I personally imagine it – that can't be it either – but let it be recognized, cooperation is desired, and we offer it warmly. - I'm not so sure of the men. You could screw the women's rate at 100 percent in the club. That would be very pleasant for us. To the SPÖ: Well, if a fresh turquoise-blue government presented a government program and we had the applause from you, then I think we would have done something wrong. You have to be so honest. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also understandable and desirable for us even if you are very much criticizing it. No problem! It's just the way you do it. I believe that two negative examples were Mr. Schieder and Mr. Kern today. Mr. Schieder! I wish you personally that you have success in the fight for the throne in Vienna. For the Vienna will not change much, the sympathy factor remains the same. Mr Kern, I would like to point out the following: What he has given of himself today can only be described in four words: the frustration of the Diva. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a steirer, I am particularly proud and happy to see so many Styrian representatives in the ministerial gallery. There's no wonder when chancellors and vice chancellors speak of a strong team. Steiric, fresh, juicy are our ministers, and I am also convinced that this will be the drive for the government team to really move something forward to really move something. For my group I said: Dear Beate Hartinger, you're a recognized expert in your field. I wish you all, all good for this activity! I don't think it's always gonna be easy, but trust me, we'll always keep your back free as you wish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To my dear friend Mario KunasekSomething better than you as Minister of Defense we couldn't have wanted. Finally one who will be there for the force! Finally one who knows what it is about, because he himself has served there because he knows the weaknesses of the system! Finally, one who is human and to whom the sub-offenders, the recruits and all can come – even the officers of course, we do not want to completely exclude them now, but we know that we have to do the most with the aforementioned ones. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mario, personally: We have already been sitting here in Parliament, at the time still in a small, intoxicated Chamber, and at that time we have already been philosophyd, as we can develop in Styria, and we have done and implemented many things. The highlight is probably once: you as a minister. I believe that if we continue to work well with our citizens in a reasonable, targeted, efficient manner, and with our hearts, there will also be a blue country captain in Styria in 2020. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8749	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8773	Madam President. High house! Chancellor Kurz has explained that the low incomes are to be particularly relieved. The FPÖ clubman meant it was going to be fairer. – Yes, I am sure the message is heard, and I have looked at this government programme very closely to see the distribution policy implications and whether it really becomes fairer or not more unfair. The result of my analysis is – I can say it in advance –: It will not be fairer – I will tell you the same why this is so using some examples – because the lower income third, the poorest income third, will be the loser, quite clearly the loser. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Lugar: Where did you look in traffic or what?]] Let us start with the example that was decided yesterday: the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. The Minister of Finance has spoken of redundancies up to EUR 300, but has probably overlooked that people up to an income of EUR 1 348 do not already pay unemployment insurance contributions, which is why this measure does not at all relieve them. Mr Finanzminister, I tell you that the people below this limit are 37 per cent of all workers! If you get the median income of women – it's 1 725 euros – then the relief for these women is just 50 euros a year, that's a little over 4 euros a month. That's what you call a reduction in low income? - I won't be there, Minister. Take the tax bonus for each child – for each child: Those who make family policy on tax benefits do not favour low incomes, but higher and high incomes. Why? – Because there are 2.5 to three million people in Austria who do not pay any wage and income tax and cannot therefore benefit from this tax bonus at all – zero cent for 40 percent of all children who are excluded from these benefits. Let us make the announcement of a collective reform! They want to lower income tax rates. Those who lower income tax rates also exclude those 2.5 to 3 million people from the relief, because they are people who do not pay income tax and income tax. So there's not enough of the house mind that the Chancellor spoke about. If we want to assess distribution policy issues, we need a little more expertise. Study fees are also an example. They want to introduce them, this is due to the low incomes, clearly the lower, the poorest, but also the middle class. The proposals on minimum security – this is at all the most scandalous example. They want to halve the minimum of existence and want to put a little bit of benefits on it for people who are in the highest need. Mr Chancellor once said he wanted to support those who need help. – Not even that does this government programme! I could continue this list even longer. Another example that I would just like to highlight now is the abolition of emergency aid, the de facto introduction of Hartz IV. This will drive many people into poverty. If you ask yourself who will finance all of this: You'll shave the lower income three again. Speaking of a discharge and a more just world is really a chuzpe! This government programme, ladies and gentlemen, is a shame to a rich country like Austria, which is the fourth-richest country in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8825	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, you are the next to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e8849	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Advent, the Christmas season, the new year: There is no doubt that this is a good time for our meeting today. It is the time in the year when one looks back a little bit, but also looks forward with great confidence. We were able to conclude the government negotiations successfully last week. On Monday the new Federal Government was praised. Today we were allowed to hear the declaration of government and to welcome the Federal Government's team for the first time in Parliament, in the House. As President of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, I am already looking forward to the cooperation. I would like to thank some ladies and gentlemen for the development of this programme: Elisabeth Köstinger and Andrä Rupprechter from ÖVP and Katharina Würzner and Walter Rauch from FPÖ. I can thank you for the exciting discussions and good cooperation and believe that we can be very, very proud of the result. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On behalf of the Austrian farmers, I would like to thank you very much for this beautiful ministry, which we have received, where agriculture, the environment, energy and tourism will be represented. I know what responsibility is involved, and we are already looking forward to the many new opportunities and the many new projects in this area. There will be measures for climate protection and for the regional and national economies as well as measures for farmers, for entrepreneurs, for workers and employees to ensure income and jobs – with a common objective: We want to generate value added to ensure social security and prosperity in this country. I think we can do this together with the members of the Federal Government. I have the great honour of putting a motion for a resolution into the House, in which we make a confession to the content of this government programme and of wanting to implement the government programme with all our strength and best knowledge and conscience. It was called a few motives. I see three major motives in our joint programme. One motive is the motive of the discharge: We want to relieve workers, entrepreneurs and farmers. And we want to help those who really need help. The second motive is the motive of simplification: We rely on slimmer public structures. We want to make our private life easier and facilitate and boost the working world and also the economy. The third motive is the motive of innovation: We want to find more courage to find new ways to find solutions in ecological, social and economic terms. I think we can work together to bring Austria back to the top. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Estimated Members of the Government Group! Appreciate Members of the opposition! I would ask you to support this request. – Thank you, all good, happy Christmas and a good new year! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[19:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9055	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. I now have a word on business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9084	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a statement by the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. That is why it is not only in the middle of the agenda, but also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the gentlemen are here as well. I would therefore ask that they be quoted and ask you to put to the vote a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9108	I have speech on this request for business treatment. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9136	Madam President. High house! The government declaration is now under way and the debate has been under way for a few hours. There are a number of government members present on the government bank. The various topics are also discussed here. [[Intervocations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor are in the house. One also has human needs, which take a few minutes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why I see no reason why, as it were, the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor are also quoted here. There are several members of the Federal Government present. [[Call the FPÖ: He's already here anyway!]] – And he is already present. That is why this debate on business treatment is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9181	Mr Klubobmann Strolz is speaking. – Please, Dr. Stroll.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9206	I wish the new head of government all the best. If human needs take hours, I'm really worried, aren't I? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to take up the debate from the President-in-Office here. Madam President, we have had real in-depth discussions in the Presidential and also in the Special Bureau last Friday and Monday. It has also been personally deposited by me several times that I wish to see specialist ministers coming up to speak. It is unique in the history of Austria that, in the case of a declaration of government, a muzzle will be suspended for the trade ministers. It has always been a minister of expertise. That's not the case today, and then chancellors and vice chancellors are sent to cross-driving. This is, of course, the continuation of the underestimation of the first state power, the legislation, as we do not wish, and as to which we have also undertaken that we are strict from the very beginning. I therefore welcome the return of Mr Chancellor and hope that Mr. Vice-Chancellor will be coming soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9242	Mr Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9266	I welcome Mr Altkanzler, who is now taking part in the meeting again. The demand of the manager of the club is far overrun. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ, NEOS and FPÖ.]] Human needs have also been addressed in the meantime. The Federal Government has been present at this debate almost completely all the time. There is therefore no need at all to think about creating a new one.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9297	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of what we are thinking about or not, but a question of the Rules of Procedure and the possibilities we have given ourselves as a house. There is therefore, of course, a possibility under the Rules of Procedure to make such a request. As during this debate on business treatment, the members of the Federal Government have returned to the meeting room and are now again present and the debate has followed, I assume, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, that this request does not come to the vote now. We continue with the agenda and the speaker list. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Always! As always!]] Next item is the report by Mr Josef Muchich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9357	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, In my role as social spokesperson, I say that we will have a lot of work in front of us in the near future when it comes to really discussing this coalition agreement and perhaps trying to bring about changes that are fair and fair. To date, I have listened carefully to all the speakers: It has been said here that it will become even more just in five years. It was said that the government programme was a programme without new burdens. - That's not true. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! You've made a very bad start. One of your first actions was to reduce unemployment insurance contributions, resulting in fewer incomes being covered by insurance benefits, which are also shortened. You've already announced that. The next consequence is that you also want to save measures at the AMS especially for those people who need it – 50 plus. This is not the social policy that Austria has awarded until now. Controlled by your program They really are the weakest in our society. All the previous speakers, I think, have put it very well, namely that the lower incomes here really fall through the rust. It will be a clear task for us by the SPÖ if you really go through it as you have outlined it in 179 pages that you want to cross with the lawn mower at the social weakest, by You're going to get people with the family bonus to help them by making cuts at the pensions by building up much more obstacles for those people who have worked hard so that they can take up the pension. There are additional disabilities in an invalidity pension, in the case of an incapacity pension, in the case of a heavy worker's pension. This is not fair to those people who have built up this country for years who have paid contributions. August, I appreciate you as a social politician, but the one point that you are checking to take into account only two years of unemployment in calculating pensions is a piggy against all those who work in a seasonal work. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is not justified against those who lose their job. [[Abg. Wöginger: Only at the corridor–!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Only at the corridor–!]] - Even there! [[Abg. Wöginger: The others go to the heavy workers–!]] These cuts in the social system are not justified. You really have to think – especially you were with these subgroups – how to catch the lower incomes. Or working time: August, we'll take you to the floor when you say there'll be overtime supplements from the eighth hour. We will take you by word. Ask the people outside who are now working more than eight hours, if they get overtime supplements! And then still to believe that employees and employers agree whether they work for 12 hours or not, and that this happens in the mutual balance of interests – that is a completely insanity. Where there are no works councils, these people will be driven over. This already shows the practice. I am now giving you a chance, because it is really important for me to discuss and work together on this subject. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's exactly the formulation you promised people before the election. That's the formulation that you've rendered here today as a clubman. Is this really seen as a bridge – as a bridge, because only in the common interest of employers and workers can flexible working hours be discussed or introduced. Otherwise, it's a big label failure again and you won't stop what you announced before the election. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9531	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen! With the greatest understanding of the fact that a declaration of government, of course, also brings with it a very emotional debate, I would really ask you not to endanger the dignity of the House with an expression that we all do not want. Mr Muchitsch, I am not going to give you a call for order, but I am looking for all the speakers to really consider it. [[Abg. Schimanek: That means we can also say “sweeping ” in the future!]] I shall be next to Mr Magistrate. Roman Haider the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9569	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! As one who has actively worked on this government programme, it was very important to me as one who has been chairman of the Tourism Committee for five years in this House, that this 30 percent VAT increase, which the old government has done to tourism in the accommodation, is now being reversed. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Ah, yes, what?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really see this as a serious improvement for tourism. Also, in the future there will be improved depreciation possibilities – adapted to the actual life span – is definitely a great advance of confidence that we will get. As a budget speaker, in the last three years it has been really unpleasant for me to watch year after year how the cold progression has drawn people more and more money out of the bag. This government will abolish the cold progression with this government programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This federal government will really do something here with a tax-structural reform. In this regard, I would like to thank our cluster leader Hubert Fuchs, but also the chief negotiator of the ÖVP in this area, Mrs Glatz-Kremsner, very, very much for her commitment. The family bonus, the 1,500 euros that families can recover from the state in future per child in tax savings per year, this tax relief is also a great, very great achievement of this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not all! Not everyone!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Tax relief, Mrs Colleague!]] The third area I have been dealing with in recent years here in this House is foreign policy. I have been in the OSCE's election observation missions for five years since, I think, I have been in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for four years. In this field, I am really very happy that we have found a foreign minister, Karin Kneissel, who is also called a female district with controversial positions, who is a designated Middle East expert, a specialist in international law who teaches at the Diplomatic Academy, at the Military Academy, at the National Defence Academy – which has still examined Klobobmann Gudenus at the Academy itself – who is the author of several specialist publications and textbooks, a foreign minister who will give an ideal picture of Austrian diplomacy abroad. [[Abg. Gudenus: Where she tested me!]] This is done in conjunction with the four foreign policy objectives of the new programme, where – first of all – it will be a matter of raising Austria's external representation as a practically one-stop shop in the embassies together with the foreign trade representatives. The second objective is to actively shape the European Union in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. That's a right-wing call. What is best regulated in the States is also to be regulated in the states. Thirdly, the programme aims to strengthen the international commitment and networking of Austria in the context of neutrality, in cooperation with the many international organisations, which are also located here in Vienna. Fourthly, the programme includes the commitment to efficient development cooperation. In this context, I would like to say to Mr Bayr that an increase in the budget for development cooperation to 0.7% of GDP is planned. That's something you haven't done under your government participation. [[Abg. Scherak: But the Foreign Minister could have done something!]] Of course, this must also be linked to efficient withdrawal agreements for rejected asylum seekers and rejected economic migrants. I am sure that Austria's interests will also be centred on in the field of foreign policy. Therefore, I really wish this Federal Government everything, all good in their doing in the interests of the Austrians. Yours, mys. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen and Austrians, I wish you a relaxing Christmas holiday, a beautiful feast and all the best with a new government in 2018.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9677	Now Mr Magistrate is. Gerald Loackerzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9701	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I want to start with the positive: I welcome the proposals in the Government's programme to change unemployment benefit and emergency aid. That is what I have requested in the old GP, I can't claim the opposite now. In the really big crumbs, when the biggest crumbs in the budget, black and blue leave out, however. Every year, the Republic of Austria spends 21 billion euros on pensions and obviously it is not really a relevant topic for these two parties when more than a quarter of the budget goes into pensions. On page 108 of the programme, we start to do a little bit of work, and then I am looking for what the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the EU Commission of Austria have long called for, namely an approximation of the age of women's pensions to those of men, a automatic pension system that takes account of the increasing life expectancy and harmonisation of the systems. Now it can be said that what you have inside as a circumcision of special pensions is a form of harmonisation of the systems, but I do not think that what you write is that for officials the pension account is also valid faster than full and not just 2028. Of course, this is not the case in the government programme, as is the case with social security. This is ÖVP clientele. And the FPÖ has let it go or not recognized it. Of course, there is also a harmonisation of the systems, a circumcision of special pensions in the Chamber of Labour, in the Chamber of Commerce, in which social security is not at all a budget, because the money remains with the institution. Rather, the Minister of Finance lacks money because the people involved in these luxury pensions will then pay less wage tax if they get less luxury pension. For this, you have distributed a little on the expenditure page. I congratulate the people on their pension, but with a higher minimum pension, a more generous calculation of the compensation allowance, if someone is obliged to do so, and an end to the obligation to contribute if someone already refers to retirement, we are at several hundred million euros that you will be pulverizing out, but you do not have. Already in the 2013 government programme, one must start the actual retirement age to the legal person. At that time, however, there were still targets to be achieved. Measures were agreed to be implemented if the objectives are not achieved. There's nothing to read about now. Now it's inside: ‘Economic evaluation in the gradual pre-accession of the actual to the statutory retirement age involving international experts’. – What are the experts to find out what we don’t know anyway, namely that we are getting older and older, that fewer boys are caring for and that many old people are to be preserved? As has already been said, the IMF, the OECD and the EU Commission are already saying it. So that's buttery. I believe that Mr Neubauer, who is always saying that we can finance everything with the briefness of the luxury pensions, has spoken to Mr Schnöll and Mrs Korosec, and they have been persuasive. So what's in it? – No measurable goals, no timetable, and no automatic consideration of increasing life expectancy. The pension system is scrapped, and I have to say, unfortunately, it remains scrapy.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9750	Next, Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9774	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! A functioning and independent judicial system is the guarantee of legal peace and legal certainty. The great confidence that Austrian citizens place in our justice system is for us the mission for the future. Under these conditions and under this aspect, we have worked on the framework conditions for this government programme. We want to adapt laws to social developments. The procedures are even better to be optimised and there must be a durable access to the judicial system. Procedures need to be accelerated using electronic commerce and judicial fees are not only reduced, but also covered. Digitalisation needs to arrive fully in justice when I think of the large files that need to be sent legally securely. In criminal law, we have committed a great deal of action, for example in the case of criminal intensifications in the case of violent and sexual offences, such as in the event of particularly brutal action or sustainable psychological consequences for the victim. Victim protection is important to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In particular, we will address security-related offences, such as tow offences. Security is of great importance to us. That is why we will also strengthen the judicial system. In my opinion, the Justice Department is the third security column of our Republic next to the German army and the police. In this challenging profession every day, judicial guards often carry out hazards and greats. So thank you for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] More than 50 percent of the inmates in our detention centres are foreigners. Therefore, the concept of detention in the home country must be forced. In the future, prisoners will have to pay more and more in their home countries. It is also very important for us – starting with the reform, the exodus Justice Minister – to have a modern approach, and it is in our implementation programme. In addition to justice, I welcome the evaluation of the subject-matter of the area of justice, in which there are now also constitutional, reform and deregulation under one roof: the roof and the leadership of Federal Minister Josef Moser, who is simply the expert in Austria for these topics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think that the transfer of the constitutional service in the field of justice is very important, because it has a very important task in the area of fundamental and freedom rights. Since you, Dr. Griss, mentioned earlier that the administrative reform or what you have read there has major gaps, I can only say: That's right, because a reform can only succeed if I make those involved. And this has to be done by our Federal Minister, and he has to talk to those involved in the reform, in the dialogue, and work out these reforms first. Top-down you wouldn't ever be successful in any company if you did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to reduce bureaucracy, for example, in the elimination of the cumulation principle. This is a concern of the economy that has long existed. It should apply in the future: a crime – a punishment. This brings new, fair conditions for the economy. It is important to relieve people of taxes. Everyone – and this is our goal – will benefit from the reduction in the tax rate towards 40 percent. We have already begun the discharge of the small earners. But after our programme, this should be just a first step and it should help to ensure that every Austrian has the opportunity to do what he wants to do with what he wants and to put it where he wants. We believe that it is very important to create these spaces with the money so that not only someone can rent an apartment cheaply in the future, but that, if it is possible, housing will also be possible for every Austrian. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We confess to the principle of non-profit accommodation and promote rental models, because this is for us the socially oriented start into housing ownership. One thing is clear to everyone: In the long term, property is the most affordable form of living. They only pay operating costs if the property is paid off, and no longer a high contribution. I'm confident: We will benefit from the opportunities offered to us in order to bring the rental right to the height of time by means of a speedy innovation. On the other hand, we will draw up proposals in a rental law convention on a very broad basis with residential law experts to create a new rental right. We need clear rules in rental law and a fair balance of interests between tenants and landlords. And it also needs and above all that: more justice and security of meeting in social housing. We want to make this through regular adjustments to tenants who become service providers in the social housing sector. It is very important to create incentives to invest – through new construction and renovation measures and investment – because only many objects on the market make it possible for the offer to be higher overall and that we can really offer many apartments at low prices. We have a future-oriented government programme. I say thank you for allowing me to be constructive in the exciting creation of the programme, and we will implement it together. I believe that in this partnership there will be a great deal to be done for the Republic and that we can live a new political style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9883	The next item is Mrs Daniela Vogtenhuber's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e9905	Madam President. Estimated members of the new Federal Government! Dear Colleagues! Unfortunately, Minister of Defense Kunasek is not in the hall, but it would be very important to talk about the area I am now now addressing. We are currently talking about a situation which has been or has been reopened in the new government agreement. Mr. Vice-Kanzler Strache, I am looking at you now because you were one of the vehement defenders of a strict Airbus and Eurofighter strategy to recover millions and billions – 1.1 billion – of damages. It is precisely this strategy that will be reopened with the new government agreement. We have a report from the June 2017 Special Committee on Active Sky Monitoring. This report states that, according to economic and military assessment, upgrading and adapting the existing Typhoon Eurofighter fleet is not recommended that it is neither economically nor militaryly effective. It is strongly recommended that the system be phased out and that Eurofighter exit. This very exit, however, is again being called into question with the Government Agreement. The Government Agreement lays down: ‘Examination and evaluation of airspace monitoring elements by an expert commission involving the air forces’. - That's exactly what happened. That is exactly what was concluded in July 2017 and what a report has been submitted to us about. I wonder why a process is being launched here again, although we were united – and the FPÖ was also a strong defender of this approach – in reciprocating Eurofighter and Airbus in reciprocating that we are returning the Eurofighter fleet that we will recover 1.1 billion euros in compensation for damage. This approach is fully questionable. We were strong towards Eurofighter, we were strong towards Airbus, because we were united – together as a government and opposition – towards this group. This report also notes that there has been ‘arbitrary and fraudulent fraud’ on the part of Eurofighter and Airbus. – Insidious and fraudulent deceptions in the form of opaque counter-actions, and, and, and. It is precisely with this group that we want to continue to negotiate on the part of the Federal Government? I really wonder what the background is. That is why it is also important for me to put forward a motion for a resolution in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] We need the money bitterly. I would like to speak to Mrs Bogner-Strauß, the Minister for Family Affairs: We are in vain trying to demand the election promises given in the election campaign here in the House. Yes, I address the demand to guarantee child support so far that children of single parents do not have to live in poverty anymore. We face a situation in which we see this problem in a rich country like Austria, but in a variety of cases it is not intervened and helped by the state. That is why we want a state maintenance guarantee, a state maintenance guarantee, in which, as Mr Steinacker has already mentioned, one can, of course, take a regress path towards the parent who is not willing to pay support. Despite all of this, I am therefore tabling a motion for a resolution together with the family spokesperson of NEOS, Mr Michael Bernhard: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also a situation which is not mentioned in the Intergovernmental Agreement and does not occur. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not true!]] We're talking about maximum limits! You're talking about Playboy Borders in the government agreement, you're talking about maximum limits that kids are supposed to have. How would it be if we were to talk about minimum limits and minimum safety of children at risk of poverty? Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[19:42]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10111	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Werner Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10139	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, your report on the Eurofighters was nice, the attempt to make our new Minister for Defence Mario Kunasekan fit, but unfortunately a little failed. Believe me, our new Minister of Defence will also accept this matter. I am convinced that he will find a good and sovereign solution not only for the Austrian federal army, but also for the Austrian population. I can promise you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The government programme, despite all the unacknowleds of the opposition, shall be subject to the following: It's a modern, it's an efficient and it's a forward-looking government program. Much of what this new Federal Government sets out for the future of Austria is simply what the Austrian population wanted. The election result was a task for the government parties to take this wish into account. I believe that this government programme is what the Austrian population has articulated as a wish. It is a special pleasure for me – since I myself worked as part of a police negotiating group and was allowed to form a little bit too – that we were able to give special importance to the area of the police, the executive. I believe that only a modern, well-equipped and well-motivated police are able to carry out their tasks; this also guarantees the Austrian population that the police have everything to do with their mission. In order to fulfil this task, we have provided the police with a lot of good, necessary, but also essential equipment for carrying out tasks, many tools. An essential part of this weapon for the police is probably the uplifting of personnel. We have 2 000 additional planning sites – 2 100 additional planning areas. in order to put it precisely – to ensure the personnel design for the future tasks of the police. In the future, we will also have 2 000 training plans to ensure that we can ensure an efficient, future-proof and well-prepared staffing of new police officers in the coming years, especially in which we have a great turnout wave, so that we can make a seamless transition in the personnel orders at the executive. I think that despite these necessary expansion measures, which we have included in the government programme, our police officers are already doing excellent work for the Austrian population. I would like to express my thanks and my appreciation at this point personally, but also on behalf of my group, that they are always available, in every weather, around the clock of our Austrian people and that, despite the sometimes not precisely rosy framework conditions available to them at present, they carry out their work with the best knowledge and conscience. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In this sense, I think, this Federal Government is a government of the best minds and, in terms of its task, the best. I believe that with this Federal Government it will be possible not only to meet the population order to redesign Austria, but also to address the problems of the future, whose solution we have taken as an order for a new path for Austria – which our Austrian people have rightly expected and deserved – from this last National Council election. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10205	The next item is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10229	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Since 1990, i.e. for 27 years, women have been represented by women ministers in Austria. An exception: In the years 2000 to 2003, there was a Minister and a Minister, Sickl and Head. In the last 27 years, however, it has always been so that it was consciously chosen, whether we worked in the coalition in good constellation or sometimes in not as good constellation. However, we, Social Democracy and People's Party, together put the coalition, and it was aware that the women's agents were separated from the family agendas. Why? What's the point? – The women in Austria are actually women in service, but they are disadvantaged in many areas. If, on the one hand, we take the wage differences, on the other hand, the active father's participation, which leads to unpaid work: There are other countries far more ahead than we are in Austria. Therefore, one was aware of these differences, this non-equal treatment, this non-equilibrium in Austria in one's own women's ministry – whether it has been in the Chancellor's office or has been attached to another department – as a unique feature and has been a lot further in these 27 years. I wanted and would very much like to say that much was carried on, but that is why I must say “some” because of the brake. This was not due to the social democracy, but to the conservative women's and family image of the Austrian People's Party, which in these 27 years did not always go with us the steps it needed. As a result, what is enshrined in the government programme – “equal pay for equivalent” and “work” – is still not achieved, the word “equal” is missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] That's exactly why it needed a wage transparency law – we tried to introduce it here in the National Council before government formation – because we still don't know what men at the side desk might deserve. In Austria, it is still a huge secret that men and women deserve in the same company, because they are unevenly classified and because it can happen in the interview that different entry salaries are paid, but not because we negotiate so badly, but because the staff or staff members treat us differently. – This is the one area, because work is one of the objectives that are set. As far as compatibility is concerned, I have already mentioned that I lack the active role of fathers. We have just one papal month, which will be paid 700 euros, but we do not have a legal right to this. I believe that many fathers would be very happy to spend time with their children, but may really have to fear that their boss or boss will tell them: Then you don't have to come again, you may not get the same job anymore. So there are only half-hearted statements on the subject of work, on the subject of compatibility. On the subject of security, social security for women, very important, has just been put in place a request that we can support, because we have always said that the entire maintenance right has been reformed. [[Abg. Schimanek: But you didn't do anything!]] A maintenance guarantee, if fathers are not willing or able to pay, would once be a step towards securing women who are affected and threatened three times as often as men of poverty, and above all the children need to be insured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 1.5 million people in Austria live in poverty or are at risk of poverty. [[Abg. Neubauer: Despite Social Minister!]] Among them are a lot of women with their children. [[Abg. Schimanek: Eleven years you haven't done anything!]] They cannot afford to support their children in such a way as to provide them with a standard of living that they can do everything the school offers and so on, as well as all other children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I am already very curious, my dear colleague, I am very curious about whether the action plan on women's health is being continued. [[Abg. Schimanek: Eleven years you haven't done anything!]] It would be desirable, Mrs Health Minister, for this to happen. [[Abg. Neubauer: Haven't implemented anything, in eleven years!]] On the subject of violence, ladies and gentlemen, and on the subject of reproductive health, one thing has been said to you: Our body still belongs to us. If you call into question the abortion in any form that would ban the back door again, that won't happen. [[Abg. Schimanek: That doesn't do anyone!]] This will not only be ours, it will not be for women in Austria, and the women in Austria will know how to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10364	The next item is Mr Karl Nehammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10399	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! It's nice to see you here in the responsibility, it's a strong, competent team with exciting personalities. I wish you every success from this point of view, much strength for the projects to be implemented! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] These projects are based on a programme that is ambitious and demanding, including for workers. The principle shall apply: Performance must be rewarded again. A first real, important step has been taken by starting to relieve low incomes by reducing unemployment insurance contributions. This is an important signal for people who work a lot, little deserve, but now still have a chance to get more. Working time flexibility is also behind this idea for workers: If someone works more, then he should also be able to earn more time if he wants it different. But behind it says: Whoever wants to do it should be able to afford it. There is a border with all of this, and this is the EU working time directive; it is quite, very important to see that it is also happening within a framework that is fair to the human being, so that he can also work in orderly order his profession. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The program is ambitious: Performance must pay off, this must also be reflected in the fact that people have more on the stock exchange again. The reduction of the tax rate to 40 percent is an important signal for people, including the abolition of cold progression, and if people have more on the stock exchange, then they do more. There too they are given freedom for a self-determined life, and that is why this tax quota reduction is so important. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: I didn't read anything in the program!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Then check it out!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No measure...!]] I now come to an important area – this is also about the issue of performance justice – of which I know he always provides a lot of emotions, but it is important to me to explain it: The reform of minimum security is quite, very important. Why is she important? – Because people cannot explain that a compensater who has worked for 20 years in part-time receives almost the same amount as a person who lives opposite, only one social benefit, has lived in Austria for at least five years within six years. You can't explain to this woman how it's supposed to be fair. There too we must act! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Very, very important is the cover. Why is the lid so important? – I bring a family example: The man has 2 200 euros of median income, gross, the woman goes to work, 400 gross for net, they have three children and live next to a family that relates minimum security. These families are just 80 euros different. We are talking about approximately EUR 2 200 net, which the one family as a minimum guarantee, and the other family, in which both are employed, is in fact still up for that. This is why the cover also comes in the case of minimum protection. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If you remember: We have decided the minimum wage together under ÖVP/SPÖ. The minimum wage is also our commitment to the need for performance. People who work should also have some of it. A question of new social justice is also the question: How do we deal with people who have worked long and much? . Our measure, shared by FPÖ and ÖVP, is more than just to give EUR 1,200 to people who have paid for 40 years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The family bonus is just as important. Allowed, Juliane Bogner-Strauss, as a new Minister of Family and Women, you are one who represents just these two sides: a successful, skilled woman in the profession and at the same time also mother. To put everything under one hat, to live in this challenge, then to really deal with it, that is a speciality. You bring the expertise and expertise to help people to do the same. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As regards the new social justice, the programme also provides that we give the caregivers 4 to 7 a chance, in particular, to the people who need help. By increasing the care allowance for these care levels, the possibility is given to perform the care better and more efficiently. In addition, the programme on this new social justice also includes the reduction of bureaucracy for the disabled. Especially people who work in the assistance of the disabled complain about how bureaucratic it is often to generate more benefits for these people, so that is quite, very important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Allow me to say something. It is pre-Christmas and NEOS are already ready for the next speech, but I have to mention it, because I have received a gift from them in the Chamber, this time Matthias Strolz's programme plus an accompanying letter. He's got a sentence in there that I liked very well, namely: If you want to go fast, you should go alone to reach the goal, but if you want to go far, you should go together. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in view of this new government, with the exciting ministers, the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor, I invite you to: It's time, let's go together!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10511	The next item is Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10532	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the subject of Europe in this government programme today. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light peace.]] We, my generation, are still at the beginning of our career, our professional path, but what will be quite clear to us, what will affect our lives most positively or negatively, is the question of whether we will succeed in developing the European Union. That will be the decisive factor whether our lives will be successful or not. The government programme says that, as Austria, we should take advantage of the Presidency's opportunity to make the most of our efforts to correct some misdevelopments at the European level. Of course, we all know what – very subtlely – should be meant by misdevelopments. This is supposed to be wrong decisions which this Federal Government does not want to take. It's okay, we can also really talk about misdevelopments, but the only misdevelopment that really exists at European level is that the development is completely missing that we are not ready to have a vision for a common, for a creating a more common Europe and finding leaders who also want to take responsibility for putting this vision into reality. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have also said in the government programme that you want to move the European Union back in the right direction, according to their basic idea. What was that basic idea? ==References== In May 1950, Robert Schuman coined a sentence that still sums up the enormous challenges of the further development of Europe. He said: “The world’s peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts corresponding to the magnitude of the threat.” I would now draw up the thesis that the greatest threat we are currently facing is the elimination of this European vision, of these European values and of the European path. But that also means that the instruments to combat this threat are certainly not the pettyness of this government programme, but rather the creative effort. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] For example, a real creative effort would at the moment be to join Emmanuel Macrons' efforts to confess that the European Union is not just taking a few steps forward, but that it is a big leap: institutional reform, democratisation in the sense of citizens, a vision of the Republic of Europe – of course, that is not what we find inside. As a citizen of the European Union, however, I would like to know how you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, see where the European Union should be in 20 or 30 years. I think I have the right to know where you want, because that is important to me to know how my life will develop. You can now find out a few things that give you some ideas in which direction it might go. In the field of labour market policy, one of the main pillars of the European Union's free movement of persons is to be restricted. This is about reviewing the Foreign Employment Act, looking at sectoral closures of the labour market and so on. In this context, one can of course quote the new Minister of the Interior from his previous life, when he said in an OTS on this topic: “If an EU Member State really has the train to the gate, it can also oppose EU law.” I hope so, please don't! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the purpose of indexing family aid, there is a call for ‘European-wide indexing of family aid’. This is, of course, a political genius, because it does not exist. That is, if one cannot implement it, the evil European Union is guilty of not making it possible. There is no preparedness for creative effort within the meaning of the European future. However, we NEOS will deliver, and you will feel how strenuous it can be if you are confronted with this creative energy. I've been looking forward to the next five years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] 20.0 2
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10624	Mr Hans-Jörg Jenewein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10645	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will really wait for the creative energy, because we have to say to what the opposition is today in this declaration of government: Just as you have managed this republic over the last ten years – this accusation goes primarily towards SPÖ – you have also managed your own party. Because one of them shows: You haven't arrived in the opposition role yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Mr Schieder, you are particularly interested in your great election campaign, which you have opened here today. Perhaps someone would have told you that election campaign for the state party was not necessarily part of the National Council plenary. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This SPÖ was responsible for putting the rule of law out of force in 2015 and opened the borders with Federal Chancellor Faymann in 2015. It was your business to blame my honourable ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán on the desert. To this day I have not heard any excuses from the SPÖ here. It was their business to open the borders, put the rule of law out of power here, and to implement the possibility of uncontrolled mass immigration, mass migration, which has been seen in the final effect that we are faced with increasing crime, with an increasing number of rapes, with an increasing number of abuses. That's all your business, the Austrians can still remember it, and that's one of the reasons you got the answer for it in October. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] If we are introducing a paradigm change here in this Republic today, I am also very glad that there is a sitting on the government bank with Minister of Interior Herbert Kicklein's Minister of the Interior, who guarantees that exactly such things do not happen anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He will ensure that at last it is finished by touching criminals with seed gloves and on the other hand constantly saying to the Austrians: Yes, this is unfortunately God's way! [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Unfortunately, we have to do that, and that is all God willing! – No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not God’s will, it has been done by you, and you have been punished for it, and it is right that they have been punished. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I would like to talk about another issue away from Austrian domestic policy. We sit here with Chancellor Blümel a minister of the ÖVP, with whom I personally negotiated the media chapter. I think that we are on a good path here, including the media policy in this country into the 21st century. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] In part, it must be noted that some people in this Republic are finding themselves under a fall in glass and that the institutions created in the 1960s are to look forward to that even in 2060. Of course we need more transparency, we also need more honesty at Küniglberg. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you are excited about what is evil in this government programme, I would like to give you the following way: We are the mouthpiece of reality in this Republic, and this voice tube of reality manifests itself on this government bank today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You are a living reality!]] – Mr President, you have had your 10 minutes and you have had the last few years. You've already failed, you've already been selected, and it's good that you're sitting here on your donkey bench. That's where you'll be able to spend the next five years. [[He-Rufe and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] You can spend the next five years, that doesn't bother me at all. It is good that you have landed in the opposition, and the Republic will still be grateful that you can now take place on the opposition bank for many, many, many years.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10762	The next item is the speech by Mr Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10783	Madam President. High house! Let us see if we can get down to the level that Mr Jenewein has just presented. [[Abg. Jenewein: Then climb up once!]] First of all, I can express my joy – and this is an aspect of government formation – that the former Minister of the Interior Sobotka is no longer part of the government. I'm glad. He will be able to conduct here as President in the future, and he will make it impartial. I believe that the resources he has not been able to show so far will be released. [[Abg. Loacker: optimistic!]] This is a weak light shimmer, but this weak light shimmer is darkened by a lot. [[Abg. New builder: Let's see how long you're in there!]] Unfortunately, this weak light shimmer is darkened by something we need to learn from the 2016 Constitutional Protection Report. There we read: “Law-extreme thoughts, anti-Semitism, Islam and asylum hostility are being prepared and disseminated right-wingly even in previously unideologised groups of people. The mobilization potential of obvious xenophobia and racist agitation is still present.” Now, in the government programme, we're reading a lot of criminal intensifications. This issue is obviously not a matter of the new government. We also read: “Such social-distorting communication strategies and the public appearance of right-wing ideology promoters in identitarian splitter troops” – with which some here have quite an affinity – “are increasingly leading to polarization and splitting in the public” in this country and “hazardous the peaceful living together of liberal democracies”. [[Abg. Höbart: Are you the new Walser?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Oils!]] [[Abg. Höbart: Oil and Walser in one person!]] – These are not my words, these are the words of the 2016 Constitutional Protection Report, which unfortunately are not worth your attention in the government programme. I understand: If one wants to get together and a government also wants to shine through the participation of a right-wing extreme party, then of course this is not a matter. [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: What's the treasure? Paranoid! What are you doing?]] No human must be surprised, for that is exactly what we all expected in this country. It is not surprising, therefore, that the ÖVP can be accompanied in its policy for the top tens of thousands of people of the FPÖ by a completely racism-refined hostage. All of this is not surprising. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Surprisingly, though, is something else. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you are either the largest loter party in this country or -
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10925	Mr Dr. Noll, I would really ask you to be moderate in terms of expression! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e10951	I take note of this, Madam President, and I would like to milden my expression, to change the Loser party to losers. How often you have demanded in the election campaign that there be a referendum on Ceta! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I give you the opportunity to prove once again what you promised in the election campaign, just after the end of the debate. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11007	Excuse me, Mr President, I would ask you to read the entire text of the motion for a resolution. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Although it was rendered in terms of content, it is necessary to read the entire text.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11028	I'd love to do that! ‘[...] in particular to establish a timetable for the expiry of the procedure, of the decision of the National Council in accordance with Art. 43 B-VG on the implementation of a referendum and the timing of coordination with the EU bodies and the notification of the Canadian Government on the intention of a referendum until the actual implementation of the same.’ Show us whether your principles will be met and whether your election promises will be met! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[20:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11110	The motion for a resolution is therefore properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next, Mrs Mag.a Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11138	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Loyalty Watch out for ORF III! Do something you're afraid of every day. – This sentence is from Eleanor Roosevelt. She was a secondary American First Lady, she was a human rights lawyer and diplomat. I'm going to do my current task. It is precisely at this moment that courage is being used as a vanguard for some of the others who are still coming and who have been asked relatively short-term due to their commitment to give their first speech today. Actually, I thought I'd have time to prepare, would get me a little familiar with house technology in the next few weeks. I thought all of this would come when the time was right. You think exactly what you're going to say, and maybe you're making a video analysis. That’s how I had imagined this, which is “nearly soon. ” You know, it'll come soon, but sometime then you'll do it soon. Somehow I believe – that is why I tell you – that I felt politics that way. That's why I've also participated in a favorite election campaign, because I've felt politics this way in the last ten years: They knew exactly what was going to happen – soon – and you're standing on the wall. There's a lot to do. We all knew that these issues, these reforms, which are now coming and which are necessary, have actually been in place for a long time. The NEOS have long announced it – thanks many times! We would certainly not be at this point today if there had not been a movement – also within the Austrian People's Party. This was necessary to grow, that was necessary for new elan to come in. This “nearly” has changed for me at the point where I said: So, now the act, let's go do it! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's what this new government stands for. When I read this through, I realize that this programme is exactly what it stands for. [[Keeping a document in height]] Not ten, 20, 50 people have participated in the creation of this program, but hundreds of people have been involved in different processes in advance. Of course, the fact that you do not agree with all things is perfectly normal. I must say, however, that as an Austrian, I am pleased that we have such a programme and can work together for the next five years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The most important and solid basis for our economic location – this is our common basis – is that we are now doing something for the economy. All that you want – and I am full of many points – is only possible if we create our basic substance, our basis, that we can maintain a thriving economic location. By the way, I also take agriculture into that – only that no one is insulted then. The total value added is based on that. In order to remain competitive, maintain the social system and enable our children to have good training, we will have to try to relieve businesses. We must do this together. As an entrepreneur, I can tell you that superfluous bureaucraticism is an insanity. There are hundreds of thousands of examples of what companies have to experience with us in this age – you know them yourself. In my opinion, however, the key role in the future will definitely play in digitization. With this ministry, which is exactly that way, we are at last at the front rather than behind it. Especially as a mother of three children, I am delighted because I believe that this is really a chance for the future. And that we found a woman, an expert like Margarete Schramböck, who will do this job for us, I think deserves a applause. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The broadband expansion, the 5G network will benefit us all, no matter where we want to live in the future, whether in the northernmost forest district, in the southernmost Burgenland or in the deepest Bregenz Forest. We will be able to live where our heart is, where our families are, because we have jobs there. There will be new jobs. We will live completely differently in five years than we do today. I believe that this is a very, very important thing that we have done in this programme and in this ministry in this area. For me, family policy is also very important, and I would also like to address Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. We have 1.2 billion euros more for families, that's nice for me. I think Juliane Bogner-Strauss is also perfect for women's policy. And even if I look at what sovereign, great women we have in this government, then I'm proud to be part of this - - – – please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I haven't heard anything yet!]] - Okay, yeah, well, you'll hear a lot. I would like to thank the FPÖ in this case. I myself entered this round of negotiations with a backpack of prejudices. I wasn't sure how it would be. It was very, very appreciative in handling and very, very honest. There are, of course, things that one feels different, but in general the commons have considered, and this has surprised me very, very positively. I am pleased that together we can make a contemporary women's and family policy. For me, the actual location policy and economic policy that we are doing is because that is the basis for our future labour force in this country. To conclude: ==References== December, the International Day of Human Solidarity. It was introduced by the United Nations in 2005. I believe that this day should be exactly a reminder that one can only solve problems of a society together, that one should act together. I have the feeling that a few scripts are already going to course what that will be like in the future. I would like to ask everyone, for reasons of solidarity, to stop incitement, whether it concerns bizarre lies such as a 60-hour week or the abolition of abortion or such things. We won't do that! We will make a sovereign women's policy, family policy and a labour policy that benefits Austrians. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We need a new culture of courage in politics and a higher speed. Sometimes, however, courage also means changing his mind. I now appeal to NEOS, in many areas where we still have overlaps – I have often discussed these issues with Matthias – to go along with them, too, because we are building on your support. Now I only still wish you and your families a blessed Christmas festival and a good reform year 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11213	Next come Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11248	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not the first government statement I've ever seen here, but it's a few things but different from the usual. Usually there has been a government declaration in which the Federal Chancellor has explained and presented the government programme. [[Call ÖVP and FPÖ:Something louder!]] It was then also like the speech in all places. I have printed it myself, and I have considered why it is not presented and why it is not presented. To be honest, I came up with it in the course of the debate, why not: It is no longer valid, parts of which simply do not apply 48 hours later. We have heard that some kind of smoking tax was provided, which is supposed to be gone again. Then we have read in the government programme that this reduction in minimum security should only apply to asylum seekers far below the minimum level of existence. Today – if you have listened carefully – however, the clubman of the ÖVP has said: This is for those who have not been in Austria for the last five years. – But Austrians are also affected. We know this from Lower Austria, where there are a number of cases in which Austrians have now almost fallen under the asylum regime and are fed off with non-existential 500 euros, from which one cannot live. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] That is why I am not surprised that this is not being distributed, because it seems to be no longer valid in many areas. If you look at budget and financial policy, you can see one thing: You continue where you actually left at Black-Blue I, because you're making client policy. There are small groups – these are with you the strong lobbys or the big donors – who get sugar that gets tax gifts. These are hoteliers, these are landlords, so landlords, these are big land owners and the like. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the example of the hoteliers you can see it beautifully – yes, there is a proposal from the ÖVP. VAT on hotels has been increased from 10 to 13 percent, which is now valid. Now one could have observed that there is a big problem for hoteliers. But that's not what we're watching. The thing we're watching is that we had a record summer. We had most arrivals in tourism in the history of Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was the best summer load. It was the highest number of nights in 25 years. There is no single month in 2017, in which there has not been a record tourism result in Vienna. Last weekend alone there was no free bed in Vienna. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] The increase in VAT from 10 to 13 percent was not an existing problem for tourism. There are quite other groups and industries that are really under pressure – I am not talking about employees but about self-employed. But for those you don't do anything in this program, because it seems they don't donate enough or don't have a reasonable lobby with you either. Unfortunately, we see client policy as we know it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder – who keeps a poster up to date with the photo of parliament Kern, on which it stands –:For him struggles: 6 129,- EUR more wages]] And who pays for these gifts? – They pay for the unemployed, the poor, the need for emergency aid, the minimum level of insurance and the wide range of benefits by getting worse health benefits. Otherwise, you cannot explain the changes at AUVA. You can't explain to me that 500 million euros in accident insurance are somehow in red tape. No, you have to save on the services, which means worse performance for the broad mass. There are a number of very, very important challenges that we all face. This is, for example, climate change. There is no single indication in the budget and in the tax policy that there should be some ecologisation in the tax system – not even a footnote is available. That's what we need. Of course, we also need the instruments of tax policy to contribute to climate change so that we do not have more refugees in the world, because we will not be able to live there by a few millions, but by hundreds of millions who have to flee their homes because they can no longer live there. And that will not be so in 100 or 200 years, but in a few decades. And there is nothing in this government programme! The second major mega-theme, which is being discussed worldwide, for example by the OECD or the IMF, is the major problem of increasing inequality in the distribution of wealth, not only because it is a moral problem, but also because it is becoming an economic problem. One knows that increasing inequality in wealth – if an ever smaller group has the wealth – means less growth, fewer jobs and less innovation in the economy. And we do not find a word in this government programme! The third major issue that exists is not so much the amount of tax – about which you can discuss – but the question of who pays what share. A huge problem we have is: Income is distributed between labour and capital and wealth. Approximately 60 percent of the income comes to work, and about 40 percent are for capital and wealth income recipients. But if we look at who pays which part of the tax, then we know that work and consumption pay 85 percent of the taxes – although they only get 60 percent of the cake, but pay 85 percent of the invoice – while wealth and capital income pay only 15 percent of the bill, while they get 40 percent of the cake. In the last ten years, there has been a number of steps in which this quota has been improved step by step. It was at the beginning, ten years ago, still at 88 to 12 and is now only 85 to 15. And instead of taking further steps in this direction to bring this relationship into a reasonable form, go back. What's announced in the government program is a pair of bro seeds. An absolutely right thing is how we can relieve medium income. We're not talking about small incomes. I know that from the point of view of a member of the national council, there are 1,500 euros, 2 000 euros low, low incomes, but these are medium incomes. With small incomes, we talk of 1 000 euros, 1 100 euros, 1 200 euros, 1 300 euros, and the people involved in this income have nothing to do with your programme! Those who have some of it are the average income of 1,500, 1 600, 1 700 euros – these are medium incomes. It may be that this is small for many here – yes, from the point of view of a member of the national council, that is small, but in reality that is the middle income, in that reality in which the party here is supposed to say vis-à-vis that it is the speech tube for this one. The small incomes, however, have nothing of it! And what do those of average incomes have: 5 or 6 euros per month? When I consider that you have announcements for cost reductions in the program, for reductions in property-related taxes, this will only lead to this imbalance, namely the third topic, causing a development in the wrong direction. And I'm worried about that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where you have to say: I really see the whole programme as a way of serving client interests that will result in exclusion from the poor, from the weak, from the asylumers, from the unemployed – a way back, a yesterday's policy. [[call to the FPÖ.]] One last comment I have to make: If you are talking about the fact that we cannot relieve people if they do not pay taxes – you mean a tax, namely wage and income tax – then you should know that wage and income taxes account for about 20 percent of the state's tax revenue, and 80 percent are other taxes, especially social taxes and consumer taxes. Six-year-old children who buy ice cream with 1 euro pay taxes. So don't say that someone who earns EUR 1 300 doesn't pay taxes, because they pay just as many taxes and taxes in relation to their incomes as millionaires – probably even more. In proportion, everyone pays about 40 percent of taxes and taxes, regardless of how much he earns. One pays a lot of wage tax, other excise duties and social taxes. If we want to reduce taxes on small incomes, then it is because they already pay taxes today, and they pay no less than you and I do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11334	Next, Mr. Dr. Reinhard Eugen Böschzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11358	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, you are a little too far-reaching. They also complain that not everything is already in detail in this government programme. Since you have not been in this House since yesterday, I am surprised because you have to know that targets are formulated in a government programme and that the framework within which you want to achieve these objectives is set out. You can be sure that next year everything will go its right parliamentary course. There will be government documents allocated to the committees. We will be able to deal with them in detail there, and the opposition will also be able to express its opinion on this. It's all going to go his right way. Don't worry! This government is on a good path. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Noll has announced here that he would like to embarrass the FPÖ with a resolution on the Ceta referendum. I can announce to him that he will not succeed. If two parties form a government, compromises must be concluded, in one case or another they must be surrendered. That's nothing new. It is new that these two government parties, who are united in this government, have agreed to implement confidently what they have actually agreed to in the next five years. We're not going to break that up by playing games. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Furthermore, I do not go into the verbal ruptures of Mr Noll in detail. You know, your party, the Pilpians, has moved into this High House with tiredness and need. Your sister party, the Greens, has fallen out of the House. We liberals have gathered more than a quarter of the voters behind us in these national elections. At the Federal Presidential election, we gathered almost half behind us. That evaluates your statements by itself, and that's what people outside, the voters evaluate. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Holzinger has announced or she has suspected that the Federal Government would not have a plan in relation to the Eurofighters. That's not true, Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] We know exactly what we want to do in this direction. We are all behind the announcement of the former Minister of Defense regarding Eurofighter GmbH. We have also decided to do so in the Security Council. It is also clear to us here in the National Council that we are behind this ad and that we all hope that the Republic will get right. We also support the efforts of the prosecutors in Munich and in Vienna in relation to the corruption cases in relation to the procurement of this aircraft, which has now been demonstrated. We hope there will be results soon. What the new Federal Government must do, however, is to re-evaluate the acquisition of aircraft. The expertise you mentioned is essential elements in the assessment. But you can't expect a new government to make such a big decision with arguments from the old government and make investment of billions of euros easy from the budget without even examining the arguments as to how it will justify it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We'll do that. We will examine this and make the right decision. The expertise – I say it again – that you mentioned is very important. They will be involved in these considerations, and the new Federal Government will solve this properly. Some colleagues have also mentioned as a problem that the intelligence services are now in the hands of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Jarolim: Yes!]] – When you, the SPÖ, ruled alone, Mr Jarolim, the intelligence services were also in the hands of a party. So remember a little bit back! A little further back, they were in the hands of the single governing ÖVP. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The FPÖ is not a single governing party. The FPÖ is in a coalition with another party. In addition, the control mechanisms relating to the intelligence services have also been significantly expanded in the National Council since that time. We have subcommittees in the Committee on the Interior. We have a subcommittee on the National Defence Committee. These committees shall be empowered to review the operation of the services. Mr Jarolim from the opposition, I invite you to do so, check You all the activities of the intelligence services, you are cordially invited to do so! The parliamentary instruments are available. And this government will also pursue a responsible policy in these areas. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11432	Next come Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11456	Madam President. Before I come to the government, I would like to say something to one of my predecessors, namely Kai Jan Krainer. He is – I have to admit it – rhetorically brilliant. But it was a star hour, namely the practical kind was a star hour of intellect. This also shows the dilemma, I think, the SPÖ, that it really doesn't understand anything about the economy. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would recommend Mr Krainer to inform the business spokesperson core of how tourism really works. We also talked for a long time about the dynamics of this 13 percent tax in the Logis – a fault of the SPÖ/ÖVP government. Above all, it is very easy to get the Austrian statistics to the fore, because it will be found that the increase to 13 percent has reduced the value added in the enterprises and the price enforcement per month by 0.2 percent. That's reality, and the numbers apparently don't lie. Now to German Chancellors Short and Vice Chancellors Street: Yes, I have to congratulate you, much is going in the right direction in this area too. Some bonds have also been made to NEOS, have found precipitation in the government program, such as the idea of Minister Köstinger that agriculture and tourism may be promised to take over a task force habitat – a wording also from our side. It is, of course, positive that these headings have been set, only the matter of how they are filled. However, there is still a fundamental suspicion that this is a marketing insult. I cannot make myself here today like my previous speakers and say that we are doing everything we can to reduce the tax rate. A brief introduction: The tax rate will decrease if the parameters of inflation and economic growth remain the same, then it will automatically fall to 40 percent. So it's a marketing shame. A second marketing mutilation is, I think, like previous speakers, to say: Let's start with the cold progression. – Yes, the government programme intends to think from 2020 on whether we will perhaps start with 2021. In the meantime, however, you have taken 4 billion euros from the bags of the people in this country. That's the reality, because you're not going on the cold progression! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If I'm allowed to drive the two political parties into a game, that's how it works: The FPÖ is a political mikado, because you fell into business order, you fell into chamber membership, you just pulled out one pen, and that was the smoker's arrangement. The ÖVP, the Turquoise blacks, play robbers and gendarms, namely, when Mr Haubner speaks of freedom as a very important asset. The election poster of the new Federal Chancellor Kurz has a quote: “Do what’s right.” – However, it says again: Do what the social partners say. I think that's the point. They are still creating, because otherwise it would have been in your mind to write down the trade reform, otherwise it would have been in your sense to guarantee freedom in this respect too. Indeed, the trade regulation is one of the brakes to prevent deregulation and red tape from taking place. The trade regulations are responsible for this. And who is responsible for ensuring that the trade order remains so rigid? Axel Kassinger, you have to sink under the table! You have presented a great programme on trade reform. We both worked together, and now there's nothing but fallen mikados. That's sad, I feel sad. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Federal Chancellor spoke of 5G – I also have five Gs: The great desire is a complete trade reform; a financing of founders and SMEs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, must be provided with risk capital for financing; Generational justice also goes to what is with the handovers and the self-employed; Justice in the free movement of persons, as far as the skilled are concerned, is what we need and, above all, it needs tourism, and a fair and fair tax system. When Mr. Strache says out here that he is committed to sports – Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Then I ask why athletes are excluded from the tuition fees. What's the reason? [[Abg. Steger: Power sportsmen! And they are not excluded, but it is only reduced!]] And if you're talking about fairness to taxpayers, we'll talk about the sportsman's leave sometime, then we'll come to fairness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] – You have style by not yelling in, let me talk out and try to follow my thoughts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] We are talking about the need to discuss sports leave. I hope you have the courage and are not cowardly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11530	Next came Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11553	High house! Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of our new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! You're in front of you, a man who's been a cop with body and soul for more than 40 years. You also have a police officer and a citizen who, due to the invitation of the German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, has given up his profession in Parliament and has gone into politics. This is how I hold my first speech in the Austrian National Council today with enthusiasm, but also with great respect, because, together with Sebastian Kurz and the People's Party, I want to stand and stand up for very important values in politics. This is for the first time – today already mentioned several times – not always respected – respect and appreciation for the political competitor. On the other hand, this is the courage and desire to talk to people in this country, to listen to them, to their concerns, to take their fears seriously, to seek solutions and to consistently implement these solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is not just an idea, that is the mandate of voters. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] All of this is particularly true of security. What does the government programme want in the field of security? Why am I so excited about these concrete projects which we read and which we can now implement step by step? A few examples: This is once the commitment to Europe. As a man in the security field, I know that cooperation in the field of security is only possible, targeted and meaningful in the European context. Secondly, the financial discharge which has already been mentioned several times today: This is a contribution to the width, to the broad concept of security, to social security. And one example is education, because we know that good education is the prerequisite for opportunities in the labour market, so that it is also another prerequisite for integration and thus ultimately a prerequisite for security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about the broad concept of security, it is also about the core area of security, and the results of the very constructive negotiations between the People's Party and FPÖ in the area of order and security, in which I myself was allowed to participate, are now an essential part of the government programme. The stated objective, which is so to speak, is: If our country wants to be at the forefront or remain in the field of security, then it does not need to look away, but looking at it, then it needs a proactive comprehensive security policy so that we can protect the fundamental and freedom rights of people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary – it has already been mentioned in a few pieces today, but I would like to mention some very important projects to be established in the core area of safety: This is once the general government migration strategy with clear objectives: Stop illegal migration in a consistent form. Qualified immigration should be oriented to the needs of Austria. People who are legally resident in Austria are forced to leave the country. To that end, we need controls, we need accelerated asylum procedures and we also need consistent returns. Finally, we need a pan-European asylum system that ensures that we ensure the European external borders, that the asylum procedure is basically conducted outside the European Union, and that we also focus on combating refugee issues. With these objectives, ladies and gentlemen, and very concrete agreed measures, we will also achieve something that, I believe, is a concern to all of us, namely to ensure that we have confidence in our rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A few points that are important to me, but which have not yet been raised: the further development of the state defence with a legal, organisational and budgetary equipment of our federal government, the further optimization of police work, taking into account the protection of law, the introduction and further development of future-oriented investigation methods. These include, of course, the agreements on more staff with the police. This has been mentioned several times today, I do not need to repeat it. But it is a golden step, because more police mean better chances of fighting crime and – this is important for the people in this country – more police presence on the streets. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I was particularly pleased – and I am already coming to the conclusion – that the new Federal Minister, Mr Herbert Kickl, has mentioned as one of his most important goals the improvement of the subjective sense of security of people in our country. This is a central concern of the people of all generations, by the way also of the more than two million seniors in Austria. We must recognize one thing very clearly: Although crime has fallen in some areas, the subjective sense of security looks quite different. Many people today fear themselves in public space, and we have to do something about it. Mr. Federal Minister! At the end of my remarks, I would like to offer you my support and active cooperation here and in all areas of security, together with the Members of the People's Party. I am also pleased in this context that our Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mag. a Karoline Edtstadler, when implementing our common goals, will be a very competent partner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the end and ask for forgiveness when I have overlaid by a minute. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It closes the circle: Ensuring security is one of the most important tasks of the State. The task of the next few years is therefore for all of us to implement the values described at the beginning of my life in political life and especially in the field of security. I am therefore looking for you all – including the opposition – to put the common in front of the separator on the subject of security. We build bridges on the subject of security and thus make Austria comprehensively safe!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11646	The next item is Mrs Stephanie Cox's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11667	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! When I first got my hands on the educational program and read through very intensively, the question came back to my head again and again: What is it about the new government when it speaks of education? Is it about viewing the children as machines that we want to wear, switch them even so that they work in the sense of the economy, or is it about education that is extremely important to our democracy? Excitingly, I asked myself this question three years ago. That was a Déjà-vu moment for me. Three years ago I was because I already had this starkness and asked myself this question, two weeks on the road by car stop in Austria, nine federal states visited, took 42 rides and talked about it with more than 170 people all over Austria. Back in Vienna, I noticed at the reflection that when my interlocutors talked about their school career, memories of humiliation, stress and adaptation came out again and again. But education is more than education, and that was something I took away from this educational trip. I would have wished the negotiators of this educational programme that they would also have gone out and talked to these people about their concerns about education. Then, I think, this educational paper would not happen in this form. [[Abg. Mölzer: There's a lot of crazy talking to people from practice!]] It's about fear instead of joy, it's against arm for empire. This paper here stands for exclusion, isolation, separation. I have just heard from Mr Mahrer of the ÖVP, education increases the opportunities in the labour market, leads to integration and increases security. – Unfortunately, I cannot see this when it is said that we need separate classes of language promotion, the establishment of elite schools in every federal state and the development of special schools. I believe that this is a nourishment of things that lead to an ever greater division of our society. And, unfortunately, something that I often see in politics is expressed, namely, a We against the others. I'd like a different course. Another red thread I saw is the subject of control and punishment. I believe that the problem of lack of confidence in the education system does not help if we put control and punishment in the foreground. Distrust between teachers, between teachers and school management, between school management and the ministries – I do not think that control and punishment of this mistrust will be reduced. There's a need for dialogue and cooperation. There is, for example, a project in the 3rd century. Wiener Gemeindebezirk, it is called Markhof. There you work with trust, trust and patience. Mr Fässmann, I am a friend of cooperation and innovation and would like to invite you to look at this project with me. On the way there, we can also talk about how we can bring cross-border beginners to schools as teachers. More than 43 percent of our teachers are over 50 years old. I agree with you that we need more diversity and competence in schools and that we should bring cross-border beginners, of course with the support of pedagogy, to the school system. We need diversity and renewal in schools, but not only among teachers, but also among students. That's an important point. Enter Please do not go to the ivory tower, Mr. Faßmann, to accompany me to the people in the country! It doesn't have to be in the way of car stops. That's the invitation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11704	The next item is Mr Christian Lauschzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11730	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! There has already been a lot of talk about the government programme. This government programme is a very modern and courageous one. It reflects a lot of that of the voters on the 15th. It was decided on October. I am therefore somewhat confused by the behaviour of a part of the opposition – that is why the Social Democrats have been addressed. Although the members of the government were often changed, SPÖ was in government responsibility for 11 years at least. But now, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ are turning out here, everything is talking bad, pretending to be here in Parliament for a few days and having the good ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades, you could have done it! You could have done this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Comrades we are only one another!]] Mr Cot, Mr Klubobmann Schieder! They use the house here to tell us what the Viennans think. - That was your integration. [[Call the SPÖ: That was the Gudenus!]] - No, no, you were. A good integration is very, very important to the Viennans. It is perhaps important to your party, the Social Democrats, that the mass immigrants of recent years are well integrated so that they can gain power in Vienna, which the population does not want for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Stop listening!]] – Don’t “Hören S”! You're the truth! If you're already removed and far away, you're going out of here and you're just claiming some things that sound good. One thing is clear: This government programme is courageous. It has caused a lot for safety. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Already now?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – If it's still going to, you can take your time! We'll do this faster than you do in 11 years. Through this government programme, for example, the federal army, the police, the internal security as well as the judicial guard have regained the value you had long taken from social democracy. You've always made promises. We have had a lot of effort to remove numerous crazy things, which cost only money, by means of government programmes, which in the many years when you were in the government had shoved in there. I can only tell you that there are petitions in prison and already announcements that one is pifting out of the last hole, and that this federal government and this modern, innovative government programme are going to be, of which I am convinced, the professional groups of executive, judicial, police and the military are returning the appropriate value. But you only need to look back on what you have done to this Republic with ministers, who, especially in the field of national defence, actually, forgive me the salotope expression, have no idea of tutes and bladders and have explained many things here.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11811	Deputies! Saloppe expressions that violate the dignity of the house have no place here. You may be used elsewhere, but I ask you not to do this here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11833	Then I'll take it back. I just want to remind you how much the military and the military have been put up in your government responsibility and actually have not understood what is being created here. One had the feeling that the SPÖ is very good sports ministers, but not a defense minister. We represent with a member of the East German federal government, Mario Kunasek, a very good minister, one who knows and really knows what he is talking about. Give this federal government time! You will experience it: It will be a good time, a better time for this republic, for the people in this Republic, for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11875	Next, Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e11897	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Dear High House! Like many here in the room, I also spent the last weekend doing a little bit of the government program and have been looking for a long time for the rule of non-smoker protection in the gastronomy. I could not find anything to do for a long time, either in the chapter “Health” or in the “Social and Consumer Protection” chapter. Why couldn't I find anything? – Because, as a new Federal Government, you seem to consider non-smokers protection not as a health issue but rather as a purely economic issue. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The information can therefore not be found, as I expect, in the chapter “Health”, but in the chapter “Location and Sustainability”, where to read: “In the sense of business freedom, gastronomy companies are allowed to continue to offer smoking areas [...].” – Non-smokers’ protection as an economic theme, not as a health issue; for me, this prioritisation and setting of priorities is more than cynical. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It's been a few years since the then Minister of Health Sabine Oberhauser, a doctor like me, and your health spokesman Erwin Rasinger, also a doctor, agreed on long, intense, but ultimately successful negotiations on a ban on smoking in the gastronomy and you have agreed the law here in this House together with us. Just this law you want to reverse now, although you, as I suppose, know better, at least sometime better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] In Austria, 13 000 people die each year from the consequences of tobacco consumption. That is 36 people a day and since the beginning of this National Council meeting, twelve lives have already been written here on the tobacco account. Other countries have made this better for many decades, have implemented the ban on smoking in the gastronomy and can therefore halve the number of smokers – halve! With us, the number of smokers has remained unchanged in the last decades. Your argument, people could choose which locals, restaurants, bars they go to, doesn't count for me as a doctor, because it's about the guests who are exposed to cancer-inducing passive smoke, but rather also about the employees in the gastronomy, for example, the waitress who simply can't choose whether she works and serves 8 or – if it goes after you – soon 12 hours in a intoxicated local or at a intoxicated counter in a bar. The population is behind this ban on smoking, which proves not least 400 000 statements of support from the Don’t Smoke campaign. [[Abg. Haider: What about the other eight and a half million?]] – This is very important only for information to the ÖVP, which is supposedly very important for citizens’ participation. That is exactly what it is to be looked at! I therefore appeal to all of you, and in this context I appeal in particular to the MEPs of the ÖVP, because at least more than 20 of the ÖVP delegates, who have agreed with us in 2015, are still sitting here in this room today: Prove us that the already agreed law that you have negotiated with us and have agreed with us is worth something for you today too! Prove us that the health of the people of this country is worth something to you! In this sense, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12049	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Stefan Schnöll is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12074	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Above all, also: Dear Seers! I would like to begin with a personal remark: This is a special moment for me today, because this is my first speech as a Member of Parliament to the National Council. This is, of course, a great honor, and I can say that I am looking forward to working with you all! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am particularly looking forward to working with the young Members. We have said and written eleven Members at the age of less than 30 here in the House, across all political groups. I think these are as many as they have never been before! These include Steffi Cox, Douglas Hoyos from NEOS, Eva Maria Holzleitner from SPÖ, Marlene Svazek from the Freeman and in the ÖVP the youngest Members Claudia Plasolm. I can still count on that myself. I know I don't look so young anymore, but still only 29. Being young, of course, is not a qualification, we are well aware of it, but I believe that young people here and there are another perspective or other access to politics, and I believe that this is urgently necessary in politics and especially in parliamentarianism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Thank you. I am also looking forward to working with the future Federal Government. I believe that the government programme for this cooperation is a good basis. Why do I believe that? – First of all, this program is backed by the thought that we are finally beginning to save in the system, rather than just among people. That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, the substantial combination of social security funds and the reduction of low incomes, which amounts to around 300 euros a year, are recognised. I think that's quite a considerable sum. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Very extensive and concrete is the programme also in some points that are extremely important to us young people. I speak in concrete terms the field of teaching and dual Training. In the past, there have been a lot of lip confessions. Everyone felt that we must make the teaching more attractive, but unfortunately God is relatively little. This has led to a dramatic fall in the number of apprentices, especially in tourism in Salzburg, but of course also in many other areas. These shortcomings were undoubtedly recognized, and we want and will face up to this development with targeted measures, such as improved accountability of vocational qualifications and qualifications for further education and training, with the promotion of training associations for the joint training of apprentices by several firms and, above all, the development of a scholarship system. This is particularly important to me because in Austria we have around 100,000 apprentices who have to overcome huge financial obstacles. I can prove this by an example from my own family: My cousin Flo has just learned space equipment and tapestry. He had to pay 4,800 euros for his Master's exam, and then another 2,000 euros of material costs and another 1,600 euros for the Entrepreneur's course. Despite the promotion of the country of Salzburg, there are still around 8,000 euros left for him, and I think that is a huge financial obstacle that our young people have to overcome. Therefore, it is urgently necessary that we change this and finally give the apprentices the attention they deserve. We are always and very happy to say that they are not the auxiliary workers in the establishments, but they are the skilled workers of the future, and so we must treat them too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, an important point for all those who work in tourism, for our chefs, waiters, gastronists and hoteliers: I believe tourism is really a pillar in our country; we speak in this context of about 16 percent of GDP and hundreds of thousands of employees. A discharge in this area is urgently needed. In particular, I am thinking of the reduction of the turnover tax on nights from 13 to 10 percent. We owe this to our tourism companies in our country! In this sense, I am looking forward to working with you. There's a lot to do – let's pack it up!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12155	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Martha Bißmann. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12173	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow citizens! Appreciate members of the Federal Government, I congratulate you on your fishing experience! Dear Mrs Köstinger, I wish you all the best for your new task as Minister of Sustainability! You have a Hercules task ahead of you: Energy, environment and agriculture in a ministry – na bum! I'll give you an advance of confidence. I hope you leave your ministry open for us, the opposition, and for the people and the know-how in civil society. The government programme contains a number of good approaches in the areas of sustainable economies, which, however, still need to be met with concrete objectives and measures, such as the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency. In this respect, there is no concrete objective for the period of the current legislative period. What are we to measure the success of this government? Some approaches in agriculture are annoying correctly. Dear government, do you have the Öxit ahead? Or how else can I understand the objective if you want local farmers to feed the population 100 percent themselves? You say that only then can Austria be free, but you think you are free! Where are the lemons and bananas to grow with us? How should we keep awake on such long session days if we are not allowed to import coffee anymore? – They probably rely on accelerated climate change! We need to do much more to protect the climate in order to achieve the 2 degree goal of Paris. Some effective levers are not included in the programme, such as mass animal husbandry, one of the most significant greenhouse gas emitters in the world. We also need a European energy transition treaty and so on and so on. There is, however, a very concrete position in the programme, which I have noticed positively, namely the renewal and expansion of nuclear power plants in Europe, especially in neighbouring countries, with all the political and legal means available. But the Hungarian government is planning exactly that! It plans to build a nuclear power plant at Paks site – it is an untested type of reactor – without public tendering. For this, Hungary, together with the European Commission, has put together a plan that really makes you stand the hair of mountains! This is an outside-political, security, EU-law and aid-based coup that runs across all levels! Dubios is also the financing structure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] A Russian state-owned company supplies a reactor built in Hungary, and this project or reactor is financed by a Russian State loan. If this nuclear power plant stands in Hungary, Hungary produces much more electricity than it can itself need. That is to say, one will export this highly subsidized nuclear stream to the neighbouring countries. This distorts competition in the European electricity market! As if all of this were not bad enough, this nuclear power plant should also be built on earthquake territory! We can stop this today. Mr Kurz – he is no longer here – Mr Vice-Chancellor Strache, if you are speaking about the words in your government's programme to prevent nuclear power plants in neighbouring countries, then you agree with this motion for a resolution which I have tabled together with the NEOS today! Mr. Michael Bernhard, thank you very much for the good cooperation in this important matter. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Do you exist this nail sample or do you fall over? [[Congratulations with list Pilz and NEOS.]] [[21:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12326	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Wendelin Mölzer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Watchers in front of the TV screens! If one sums up today's debate a little bit, then on the one hand one sees a certain new dynamic that will move into the country, we will experience fresh wind. On the other hand, when I look to the left, where the rows are already a little empty, I see to a certain degree frustration and bad loss. Dear friends or comrades of social democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] I have to say that you should come a little in front of your own door and ask yourself why the left camp in Austria has lost almost 10 percent or more, and go into the error analysis. With what you're doing, I don't think you're going to win back voters! But that's only right for us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can express a few thoughts about the new government's educational programme. I can assure you, Mrs Cox: Although we did not get the practice, the information and the input by car stop all over Austria, we are on our way not only yesterday or yesterday, but for years now, to talk to the stakeholders, the teachers, the students' representatives, the parents. What is found in this government programme on education is a lot more practical and not as much done in the ivory tower, as has been done in the last eleven years of socialist education policy, but that really has to do with what Austria is, namely, a very multi-faceted country from Vorarlberg to Vienna, and we will definitely do better than that so far. As has already been said, we have had to let ten or eleven years of socialist education policy move into the country. This has led to the fact that almost one third of children cannot read and write meaningfully with us and that we have had to make a clear, serious increase in the number of those children who attend private schools over the last ten years. I think in Vienna it is now every fifth child, and throughout Austria it is, I think, also around 13 or 14 percent, if I am not fooled by everything; it is constantly increasing. This is, of course, a pro- Blem, to whom we have to face. We have, I believe, clearly formulated this, and we will implement it. We want – this is also important! – no socialist equalisation in the form of the total school. We have made an announcement in the direction of a differentiated school system and we want to further develop it. It is, I believe, very important that we try to respond to the different needs of different talents and talents, and this should also be reflected in different types of school. We will further develop that accordingly. A big question in the past was not at all a subject or an issue, as I believe, of wrong treatment, namely the question of immigration and integration. We have been allowed to discuss this again and again in the House during the last legislative period, and the Socialists have refused, as I say, to take the right approach. We will also take appropriate measures in this regard. I think the central point is that integration only works through language. It is about how to teach the children German so that they can integrate themselves accordingly so that they can follow the rule teaching accordingly. In this respect, we will, in any case, put in place essential measures. Another area, I believe, is clearly beginning at kindergarten, i.e. early childhood or infanthood. We are going to put it there, and we have planned a uniform quality framework for this. We also want to ensure that the basics, namely reading, meaningful reading, writing, computing, all children are taught. We also have a plan to reintroduce non-truth. This will also be addressed today in connection with a SPÖ application. Generally speaking, the performance assessment must be voted. This is for guidance, and I believe it is very important that the number notes be reintroduced all the time. If, in your request, which you have already submitted, you claim that there is therefore an uproar of the parents or the like, I say: I see it differently! I have received almost exclusively advocacy for this measure, which we have now planned. It is also necessary to say: This should serve as an orientation, but we want, of course, that, in the future, verbal types should also be possible if the school autonomous is desired. Autonomy keyword: This is certainly also a very essential area. In general, we want more autonomy, and in view of this, we decided a delicate plant in the summer. Now we have to make sure that this is further expanded. That is, I think, a very important factor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I can say that this program is not retro at all, as is claimed by the left, but it is simply another and a new way that we are going. This is urgently necessary, and I am very pleased to go along with the EIA. We will see that we implement the best possible for our children, because these are the focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12426	National councillor Angela Lueger is reported to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the subject of security once again. Something's very much in my heart: The overall supervision of all uniform forces is in blue hand. [[Abg. Haider: Very good! Better than in red!]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] This concerns the police with 30,000 officials, the military with 15,000 soldiers and 10,000 groundmen, about 25,000 military members and 900 intelligence staff. All this is bundled at the FPÖ. [[Abg. Gerstner: Very good!]] Mr Kickl is now Minister of the Interior, Mr Kunasek is now Minister of State Defense; he used to be a colleague, now he is a minister. [[Abg. That's right!]] I would also like to speak to Mr Josef Moser, Minister for Constitution, Reform, Deregulation and Justice. Something should be clear to you, ladies and gentlemen: He is former head of Haider's office, 1992 to 2002 club director at the FPÖ Parliamentary Club - – – that's not a ghost frame, these are facts, that's your past! [[Abg. Haider: Do not paint ghosts on the wall!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: What kind of picture do you want to draw?]] In 1996 there was then this famous, well-known plastic sackerl affair. At that time, 5 million schillings were postponed. Mr Moser said that he did not know what he was doing and what was happening, but at the time 5 million schilling went on to the FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Now this minister is sitting on an ÖVP ticket, and I can't imagine changing his inner attitude in such a way that you just switch between the parties. [[Abg. Rädler: There's already a lot changed!]] I've never changed my mind, certainly not! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The constitutional lawyer Heinz Mayer recently gave an interview and said that the power in the coalition – we have already discussed it today – should be so distributed in the state that abuse becomes quite difficult. – I don’t see that, because there are quite a lot of data in the interior; I don’t need to list you here, that’s known. It's criminal registry data, reporting data, personal, identity register, everything's working together. And the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has made it clear that he can also get the documents of the secret services. I think it's really fatal that this is so bundled! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: What is fatal about the government getting insight into files?]] In my opinion, the FPÖ has never had this sensitivity to a certain degree of security. I would just like to remind you: In 2000, confidential information was collected from intelligence databases, which were then sent to FPÖ politicians. [[Abg. Neubauer: From 1948 also something?]] – No, that’s the year 2000, so long it hasn’t been. I also find something positive in this government programme. As positive, I feel 2 100 additional posts for police officers and additional training places. [[Abg. Listen, what you've never implemented!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – That’s easy to say. Think back to Black Blue I, you saved 3,000 policemen! [[Abg. New builder: You don't have a post-occupied one in 11 years!]] One thing is also gratifying – this is from today’s press release –: “106 new police officers for Lower Austria”. [[Abg. Neubauer: In Tirol, too, in Salzburg too!]] I think that's great, this is a good performance for Lower Austria, but it seems to me that there are 106 police officers there because in Lower Austria there are soon to be country elections. That already has a small taste, because the other federal states would just as wish they would get it. [[Abg. Jewellery beaters: They watch out for Vienna anyway!]] One thing you can expect is that we as the opposition party will look critically at it. They have to deal with our criticism, and we will make this criticism constructive in the sense of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12665	National councillor Rudolf Taschner is reported to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12687	Mr President. High house! Among all the important, good and promising measures presented in the present government programme, I can return to what Mr Klubobmann Strolz has also put forward as one of the most profound and crucial factors for the future, namely the education and training of our people. Let me begin by congratulating the Chancellor that he has appointed Professor Fässmann as Minister of Education, whose far-sightedness, sense of duty and force of enforcement we can count on. This choice, ladies and gentlemen, was optimal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Fässmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Fäsmann for his excellent work. I allow myself, a few – three or four – to take advantage of the 126 points in the government programme, which concern only your place of business, Mr. Minister. First: It is remarkable that the section on education in the government programme is in charge of kindergartens and highlights their important role as the first place for human education. As part of a federal-state agreement, there will be a new binding education plan so that all children will be prepared well and age-old for their future and especially for school and speak German in particular, read and understand that the language for them in future schools is no longer an obstacle. Secondly, It was good to hear that the government acknowledges to the differentiated school system that the individual school types, namely all school types, are strengthened in their profile, yes that special schools are also preserved, because the school has individual strengths and interests to discover and promote, and at the same time it has individual funding needs to take into account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] Only the differentiated schooling with its wide range of school types can satisfy the diversity of the talents of our children, only a differentiated schooling ensures today's much praised diversity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Thirdly, When talking about the performance of the school, one has to say more precisely: the performance of teachers in it. In fact, these are personalities whose commitment cannot be estimated to be high enough. In countless conversations, which I was able to conduct in the math.space in the museum quarter with teachers of all forms of school, I was assured that we would like to pass on the fullness of our knowledge if not so many administrative, so many unnecessaryly controlling, so many slowing down shoes. That is why it is good for the government to review all requests, all regulations and all newsletters for their practicality and necessity and to create rigorous free space for exciting and good teaching. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Fourth: As the quality of school stands and falls with the quality of the training of our teachers, the quality of training of future teachers is the cornerstone of our education system. This leads me finally to the universities and universities in which you, Minister Fäsmann, know from your profession what matters. The measures proposed for these institutions in the government programme aim precisely where it is necessary: Study conditions at universities and colleges are improved; higher permeability in the higher education system is provided; and yes, moderate study contributions as a useful control instrument are an important step to improve student study conditions in order to combat too high dropout rates and too long a study duration. This Federal Government is also expressly committed to a sustained increase in educational opportunities for young people from all social levels through accompanying measures, such as an extension of grants and a wide-ranging consideration of living conditions. Austria does not have too few students, Austria has too few trained graduates. If the solution, as called for by the opposition, were to be a blind, unrestrained increase in the number of students, without resolving the problems during their studies, we would waste a irrational amount of life on our young people and would be very disappointed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would not be willing to carry this along with the new People's Party. We'll see, the government will do better! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12775	Mr National Counsellor Wolfgang Zinggl is speaking on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12796	Mr President. Because nobody else talks about it, I say a few words about the government's cultural programme. Cultural policy always shows very symbolic and distinctive style and direction of a government and where a government is moving. Especially in this cultural policy programme, we see particularly clearly that it is a journey into the past, at least 17 years back, into the era bowl. There is a scientific institute that compares text points and has copyright concerns that there is more or less the same as at the time at the time at the government's door. [[Abg. Rädler:... from the fungus?]] In fact, on the one hand, we have this focus, back to the national, to the groundman, this Nabelschau Austria first, as if in culture, in which art is not quite important, in the sense of cultural diversity, to promote international exchange, and on the other hand, this emphasis on the economic factor in art, as if it were the most important function in culture and art and as if it were only about money. I wonder why these two positions, namely the National and Economic, could not actually lead to a docking of cultural agendas to the Ministry for the Economic Location of Austria; but what is not, can still be if it goes on. Let's see what's going on. I could now cite many examples of this programme, but it is important to me that I make a paint must test in this area very briefly: In Vienna, the People's Party and the Freeman voted against the project on the Heumarkt, and the Unesco has the Austrian Federal Government until the 1. It was given the time to re-establish a turnaround and save the World Heritage Site in Vienna. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let's see if what was successful in Cologne – the city of Cologne wanted to build houses outside the core centre, but was held by the Federal Government in Germany – succeeds with the new government in Austria or if it works as well as before and we lose the world's cultural heritage. Let's see what you're saying about whether you're voting for it or not. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[21:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12909	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr National Councillor Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e12933	Mr President. High house! My subject area is education, science, research, innovation, digitalisation, for the simple reason that I was responsible for these areas in the framework of government negotiations. Mrs. Köstinger was on the part of the ÖVP. I must say that this is an area in which we liberals are very, very satisfied with the results, and I assume that the ÖVP is very, very satisfied with the results of these three groups we have had there, namely education, science, innovation and technology. These three areas are areas where we are typically more than 100 percent. Federal Party Obmann Deputy Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache has said that each party has spent at least 75 percent of its content during these government negotiations. Now you want to believe that twice 75 percent are more than 100 percent. The classification behind this is completely clear and clear, for example, if, as in this case, and I would quantify this, already 80 percent from the outset – in so far as our positions, which we have also communicated in the election campaign, and the positions of the ÖVP, especially in the field of education, science and research, are 80 percent, then we have a residual mass of 20 percent, where there is convergence. If everyone gets half the money, that's 10 percent, and that is, both parties have spent 90 percent of their content. This would certainly apply to the fields of education, science and research to a very, very high extent. Why? – Because there is actually a change here, because in my view, in these areas there is actually a turnaround. We free the Republic of 11 years of socialist education policy with all its negative effects. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] This is so encouraging and important when it comes to training our children; that is the most important thing we have in our country at all, not only for economic reasons, but also for emotional reasons; that is a very important area. It is also very good that now also a long-term liberal demand, the summary of education and science, is implemented, so that the secondary, tertiary, folk schools, in addition to elementary education, kindergartens, are bundled in a ministry. That's good. Science is, as it were, no longer attached to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as it was during the last legislative period. This also shows how important the new Federal Government is in this field. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me explain the change of time or the change of time, the departure from socialist education policy on the basis of some examples. We liberals have no problem with terms like order, discipline, achievement. Of course, these virtues or framework conditions should also be taken into account in training facilities for our children. Of course, this is not exaggerating, there will be no horror scenarios, as they are presented by the Social Democrats, but without performance, without order, without discipline, we will not be able to train our children to the extent and quality as they deserve it and how this country needs it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Vogl and Mr Jarolim.]] Of course – Mr Tashner has already announced it – there is also a clear commitment by the Freedom Party to the differentiated education system. It already tells you the basic idea of logic that people are different, that people have different abilities and skills, that people are different according to their requirements. That is precisely what speaks for a differentiated education system and not for what you have done over the past eleven years, an equalizing system, all people are equal. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Never said that!]] Thank God not all men are equal. All people are different and diverse, and that is good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me say two more sentences on higher education. There are also clear strategic objectives, a clear profile for higher education, a clear definition of what universities should be responsible for, a clear definition of what the universities should be responsible for, clear framework conditions that increase studyability, of course also clear framework conditions that facilitate the management of universities. To this extent, we have jumped over a small shadow in the matter of discussing tuition fees. For my part, I would like to clarify: The claim, Mrs Kuntzl, that we want to introduce all-roundly undifferentiated tuition fees is wrong! Just as wrong is the claim or presumption that the amount of tuition fees would be 2 500 euros or more per semester. That's both wrong! What we do is a differentiated system, which ultimately leads to students who have been in Austria for five years and are studying in good fashion, paying more or less, or paying half the tuition fees immediately and the second half in a row being refunded to a very high degree after the end of the study. Study fees must be paid by foreign students, the services of the Republic of Austria, i.e. services financed by the Austrian taxpayer, and also must pay Austrian students who do not make these 16 ECTS per semester, so not quickly, but slowly study. The amount of tuition fees will still be discussed, but they will by no means be 2 500 or more thousand euros, but this will be based on the old tuition fees that have already existed, 360 euros, i.e. 500, 600 euros or anything. That's quite feasible, that's not astronomical amounts. We expect considerable positive control effects that will occur, which will significantly improve the studyability for those students who really want to study, the care conditions et cetera.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13006	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the National Council. I'll give him the word. - Please, Mr National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I actually did not want to talk about education policy, because it is not my topic directly, but according to what I have heard now, it is, I think, important to say a few things already, ladies and gentlemen! We certainly have best-practice models in Europe, where training is best, and this is certainly the case in those countries that can be described as Scandinavian countries, and these are social-democratic – as you say – systems that are built there. They essentially assume that it is important to promote every individual student, every single child as far as possible, as different as the needs of the respective ones require, and then, in a sense, you would say, to train elites – it is elites – of children who will help us in the future in the country to design these lighthouse projects, which unfortunately God has not succeeded in your previous representations. Today we have heard Professor Taschner; many of what he says I would sign. However, I remember – I don't want to complain, I just want to describe – where there are problems again and again. We have long had the system in Vienna that we assume that kindergartens are the first places in which references to young people exist, where young people are prepared for society, and that we use the best possible people there. It's a little wonder, then, that you now represent this as a novum. I agree with this immediately – we live it in Vienna – and then you only have to follow up on it – and I also believe that the occupation in this context is really a very good one, but you can only congratulate it; there are very good occupations here and there are less good occupations – see how it works. We'll take a look at this. We will certainly cooperate with you where we can; where we cannot, we will show it. But if I look at the discussions with Mr Kimberger, for example, with the teachers' union, when it came to making a little improvement in the offer also to the teacher: Everything was slowed down! You may also remember the woman Gehrer, among whom we then offered gold canopy courses in the secondary schools. That's the quality! That's really adventurous. [[Abg. Martin Graf: That's not true at all!]] The fact that you're going out of here now and you're saying that what we've said for a long time is actually right, of course, I'm so happy. I only wish you every good thing that, despite exactly this braker – Mr Kimberger and his consorts, who in the past actually insisted on examining children, but I believe that one needs to examine teachers once because only the best of the best students should be trained – works. I am really happy about your appeal – I am not happy about everything you have said, but about it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to put one very briefly to the discussion – it also has something to do with the next item on the agenda –: What is striking here, in particular what Mr Bundeskanzler is about, is that we actually get away from the discussion in a terrifying way, get away from the responsibility and I do not fully understand why he is trying in such a fearful way to get rid of himself by means of the Ministry Act. I haven't experienced this yet: We now have a government spokesman at once, and yesterday, in the “time in picture 2” – everyone who has seen it could only think: extremely embarrassing and unpleasant for him – he had to hold his head for something that the Federal Chancellor had to represent, when he was asked how this looks now, when it is told, there would be great social support, the poor in society should get something – but the poorest get nothing, namely, those with an income below 1,400 euros. That's what you have to stand for! Therefore: Please explain to us here and today – the German Chancellor has said a lot, but nothing in content, but he has rather left off clouds – why you, and this is now at Christmastime, the poorest of the poor – and these are those who earn less than EUR 1 400 – actually do not want to give anything at all! And not only that, but you even take something away from them. So they serve to loosen the finances you need for those you have supported in the election campaign with election donations et cetera. I find this embarrassing. I think you could have been waiting here with something else right now, where you've been grandly announced what you're going to do. When it comes to speaking, ladies and gentlemen, that we should better deal with each other, that we should appreciate ourselves, we are certainly the first to go along with it. But when I look at what has happened here, especially what the Federal Chancellor is about, how he is dealing with people, I look at how he actually wants to be an example. Mr Sobotka, for example, who has really been used very massively for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has been disposed of more or less like some others. – What you have to say was that there were also many persistent forces in which the country may be well aware that they are no longer in these positions. But when I look at Mr Sobotka: He has been granted more or less, he may become a finance minister or this or that – and in the end he has jumped over the blade and has flown out of the government. [[Call to the FPÖ:And he was no longer seen, the Lord Sobotka! Where is he now? – So I can remember that people have been taken away from you...!]] Mr. Brandstetter, as he tried to support his protector – even in an adventurous way, so that even the FPÖ was opposed to supporting this insecurity package here at that time! He almost lost his professor just to support here. What happened? – He flew out of the government. [[Abg. Little: What is this about you?]] [[Call the FPÖ: What did you do to Faymann?]] And Mr Rupprechter, what about this one? A very sympathetic minister, a very sympathetic personality! He has fought for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, that we cannot fight annoyably, ladies and gentlemen. What happened? - He flew out. So you really don't need to tell us anything about non-cooperation at all! I consider that to be characterless. [[Abg. Wheelers: You need to talk about character!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: “Charactless” is already a strong word, isn’t it?]] I hope you make it better in the future. An honest hope! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13138	Mrs Maria Theresia Niss is speaking on the floor. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13160	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear visitors to the gallery and in front of the televisions! I can tell you that this is a very special day for me today, not only because I am allowed to give my first speech in front of you in the House, but because we have heard today a declaration of government which has presented a programme to bring Austria back there and where it belongs, namely to the top. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I'm one of those much quoted cross-country beginners. I came from the economy and was allowed to lead the young industry for some time and to make interest policy there. However, being Members of the National Council is certainly a highlight for me. I am looking forward to this activity and will carry it out with great enthusiasm, consequence and, above all, with a sense of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why am I convinced that the government programme is a good one? – We find in it values that are important for Austria and society: Self responsibility, responsibility for others, entrepreneurial freedom, freedom in general, competition, performance. – All these are terms that have been neglected in my opinion recently, but which are essential to our country and thus to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, What must be our goal? . Our aim must be to ensure that there is general prosperity in this country, that the the population benefit from economic rise and can lead a self-determined life. The most important prerequisite for this is secure jobs. In this sense, the flexibility of working time is an important step. And it's not just an important step, it's also a fair step: It can be worked if there is work, but at the same time the workers also benefit from larger blocks of leisure time, and this in maintaining a fair overtime scheme. We must not forget: We are not leaning out here, but we are only approaching regulations in EU countries that are not considered to be non-social, such as Sweden or Denmark. We must not forget: There is an EU directive, which defines not the maximum limit of working hours but minimum rest periods. And one thing: I do not allow employees to be played against employers! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Entrepreneurs and employees sit in a boat. Indeed, our employers are the customers, because we owe them the job. And our employee, that's the international competition, because it takes us away from work. Only together are we strong. I'll do my part for that. Please take me by the word! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Liberation and debureaucratisation – concepts that we have often heard, but little has been done so far. In the programme, however, we now see very strongly the start-up and a commitment to finally getting the regulatory spirit under control. The withdrawal of gold plating, simplification of administrative penalties and many small levers, such as the simplification of wage accounting, are all examples of this. Yes, we need a basic framework of regulations within which entrepreneurs can and must work, but we must finally respect the business freedom again, because otherwise entrepreneurship will no longer make you happy. And I think we agree that we need even more highly motivated entrepreneurs in this country, because we all benefit from it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] One thing I would like to address, namely, the issue of digitization. I am pleased that we are finally taking this issue seriously. This is also reflected by the fact that there is a ministry and Margarete Schramböck is an expert as a minister. Digitalisation is an opportunity, and, as the German Chancellor said today, of course, we must also accompany companies as closely as possible in this digital transformation. Now my very last point: We need to consider that Austria is an innovation location – we find a commitment to this in the program. We need a research-friendly environment. We need to become an international location where innovation centres settle, because this creates jobs and secures prosperity. We have excellent skilled professionals, but unfortunately too few. We need other top skilled professionals, and these better yesterday than today. In a strong commitment to further education and training, especially in the MINT area, I see a central point for the further development of our site. All this gives me personal hope, and I am happy and grateful for being able to work constructively with you all in the course of my parliamentary work on the development of Austria. Thank you. I wish you all a happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13269	Mr Thomas Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13290	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! – I would almost have said, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. – Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For a former minister of art and culture, this has already been an enriching afternoon: For nine hours I was allowed to look at the Mikl wall frescoes and deck frescoes and now I have the opportunity to address you and focus on the chapter Art and Culture and Media of the government programme, which is not so much at the heart of the present day. I quote from the government program, which, like many others, led me to mind over the weekend, and read the sentence there: “Time their art, art their freedom!” This is one of the most important slogans – good day, Minister of Art and Culture! – the Vienna Secession and its exponents from Klimt to Kokoschka to Koloman Moser. [[Federal Minister Blümel takes his place on the government bank]] Of course I asked myself: What has this sentence actually lost precisely in this government programme? – This has not directly opened up to me, especially since the idea of the Secession, as is widely known, is related to two questions: firstly to the question of contemporary, second, to the question of freedom. But both seem to me to be in a certain contrast to what you have set out in your government programme, not only in the art and culture chapter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your program is – and you have often read it over the last few days, I repeat it only because I think it's right – not very contemporary, it's rather retro. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And your program does not improve anyone's freedom elementary, and not at all the freedom of art. Instead, you will entertain the readers in your chapter with the old known calamities and stories of the casting pot and of the necessary evaluations. And I have to tell you – not only because it is 22 o'clock – this story of the casting pot and the narrative of the evaluations tires me a lot, probably also because I have heard them many times. However, my fatigue is not as bad as the fatigue of the artists, who are associated with the reading of these terms. The key issues of the future are not addressed in any of these chapters. And the concept of evaluation is associated with insiders, and there are some here, especially since the above Austrian example in general, of the concept of reduction. If you want to say so, the evaluation is basically the camouflage concept for the reduction. You have put a gardener into the discussion with the concept of the casting pot. [[Abg. New builder: Free to Duchamp!]] Absolutely! Perfect, well observed. Thank you very much for the introduction. – But the gardener that it is about is not the casting pot, but the gardener about which it is about you in the future, seems to be the lawn mower. This is the Upper Austrian experience, and of course this is also the experience in the city of Graz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, this whole swirl does not make sense of the effectiveness, of efficiency, of the synergies in truth. Speaking of efficiency, because the Federal Minister for Reform and Justice is present: What does it have to do with a modern state, Mr. Moser, if we once again have the discussion about the landing of the monument? What do you save in? What saves you if you build up exactly these double structures, which, fortunately, are not yet available at the Bundesdenkmalamt and which you send to say goodbye to in other areas where there are these double structures? The so important question of the social situation of artists is not at all addressed in your program, but I can join me seamlessly with my previous speakers, especially at Beppo Muchich, who has been very clearly concerned about how you deal with the achievements of the social state in your program. On the subject of media, because these are also addressed: They note that the media landscape would be in the break, digitization is on the rise. – So far, so right, so undisputed, but also so little new. However, you remain guilty of concrete solutions as you deal with digitalization in the media. They're talking about organizational structures, about more "Airplay" for young Austrian artists, and that was exactly the point where I didn't actually understand what you wanted out on, and actually only two interpretations were made: Either – that’s an interpretation, and I think it’s almost more benevolent – there is a certain planlessness, which is to do in the field of digitalization, or, and that’s the less benevolent interpretation, you have a pretty precise idea of what you want to do in the media sector, and therefore address the media authority. However, it is recommended that you read the exact reading of your program, especially those chapters of which you would originally believe, it is not the chapters you should read, if you are responsible for this because you have hidden the non-smoker protection in the chapter on location and sustainability, for example. In the chapter Location and Sustainability, however, there is also a very precise proposal on how to dedress the most traditional newspaper in the country and the world, which was founded in 1703, its economic base. I think that this proposal is particularly dangerous. I was pleased to have seen that you have announced that you want to contribute to a renovation and a security of financing. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel]] I think it would have been in line with the good tone and the ways of dealing with it to get ideas presented here from the new Minister or from the new Minister. Unfortunately, that was not the case this time. After an in-depth reading of the government program, however, I cannot imagine that these 180 pages have really employed you, as you sit here, and your 150 experts for a period of seven weeks. I think you haven't been so busy with the fine formulations of what's written here in the last few weeks, but you've been working on the creation of side letters. I'm not going to suggest to you that you have very concrete ideas. I would have liked to discuss these ideas in the media area with you. I would have been happy if you had named Ross and Reiter and we could have had this discussion. I would like to be available for such a democratic discourse per futuro, and I will not be able to conclude it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13358	Mr National Councillor Gerhard Deimek is speaking on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13379	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in my speech, I have a slightly larger bow, although only in one ministry, but still a bow from research on Telekom to traffic. First of all, I am pleased that, according to the department, the handover has been carried out very objectively and friendlyly – Minister Hofer has even received a red cap from the excruciating Minister Leichtfried – and I am sure that Norbert Hofer will continue to carry out his work and perform his function in the next legislative or function period. Maybe we should come to research. Often required, rarely being daily, but now contained in the programme is an overall research strategy. One of the main points is that it will be developed together with the federal states and that a really large curve will be stretched from basic research through applied research to company-related product innovations and product maintenance. We didn't have that until now, but without that it won't be reasonable either. What's also important is: What the State is doing, namely focusing on, depends on where we have our economic strengths. That is, the current industrial strengths are as illustrated as those areas in which we want to be ahead in the coming years and decades – industry 4.0, digitalization and so on. All of this can be found, and it is mainly accompanied by cross-resorts. So no one needs to feel reset. In addition, all of this is covered by means. I must especially thank the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – not only the negotiating team, but also the current members of the resort – for ensuring that this funding was possible, because only with this funding cover can we go up as a country and come to the region of the leader, and not stay with the followers. A short side swipe to Telekom: Broadband has already been discussed by one of my previous speakers, but of course we also have radio technology, and it is closely and critically observed how we will shape this 5G strategy in the next few years. It only goes with all stakeholders, i.e. with the providers of the technology that apply for the frequencies, but also with the companies that put their applications on it, and with those people who then use them. If we do this wisely and in the sense of the government paper, we can manage to be a 5G pilot country in 2021 – we have to imagine that, then we are in front of the Germans, where we always talk about it, we measure with them! – and we also want to take the lead clearly throughout the broadband-5G network. Let's get to traffic: With regard to the street, this government and Minister Hofer, under the title of debureaucratisation, has a lot to do with traffic flow adjustment. There are many – and I really only call keywords like e-mobility, autonomous driving. But what will be particularly important, and this is above all a social measure, is a calming down on the current car-used market, which concerns the whole subject of diesel. There's peace in it, mind, especially before the background to the new, coming technologies, the CO2 theme and so on. This is a social measure, because who buys the used weights? – These are not the corporate directors, these are not those who have a lot of income, but these are the weaker incomes, and under this title you can see. Another point that is very important to me in the area of traffic next to water and air is the rail. In this respect, a number of rumours relating to the ÖBB have been heard in recent weeks: The new government will, of course, privatize and shorten!, all evil and bad was therefore spoken. – No, it is not, and I would like to say to the 40 000 railers: Don't be afraid! You get a minister who looks at you, who really understands the ownership responsibility and wants nothing more than a powerful, well-trained state company Austrian Federal Railways. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Why do I also mention training? – It must be possible in this company for managers to come out of their own structure. That was not the case until now, but it should come to that. But you need to improve a number of things. This is not only about training, it is also about innovation in this company and the transfer of know-how. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Yes, I know, of course, there is an immediate call from the SPÖ. You'll probably tell us now that we'll sell it anyway. – Become Happy with this opinion! In any case, the railways know very well that there is nothing wrong with a Minister of Freedom for Transport. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The railways also know quite well that in ten or eleven years the SPÖ has not managed to create a proper service right or, for example, a professional image for drivers. There's no such thing to this day, you can talk about what you want! They very much regret this, because when they become unemployed, they have to take on every job because there is no professional image. There are still a number of other points in the service law that – I say quite clearly – have slept Faymann and Kern or did not want to regulate because they were too cowardly or whatever was the background. The operating service is worse today than it was 20 years ago. They have not deserved this, and I know that Minister Hofer will accept this very issue. [[Welcoming the FPÖ and Deputies Wöginger and Nehammer.]] But that means that only a good, efficient and well-organised company ÖBB will be able to meet public transport and serve public transport, and this government will ensure this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13471	Mrs. Sonja Hammerschmid has now been reported to speak. - I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13492	Mr President. Estimated government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated audiences on the gallery, in front of the TV screens and the live stream! “I want to live in a country where all children have the same opportunities” on the best education – no matter what origin they have, no matter what name they bear, the best education for all children! That was my first sentence here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Abg. Rosary: So Austria!]] In the last 19 months, I have been able to develop a policy of education, a social-democratic education policy that allows schools, educators and educators to shape how children need to support their talents and potentials in particular and to promote them in particular – a social-democratic education policy that does not leave a child behind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: All, everyone!]] Now, when I look into the government program, I see that one goes through consistently: Extraordinary, selection, restriction and punishment are in the foreground. – Due to the advanced time and the requested shortcoming, today and now I will only focus on two topics, on the one hand the strengthening of special schools. That really hurts me. I would remind you that in 2008 we ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. I should also like to remind you that in 2012 we adopted a National Action Plan on Disability with the aim of creating an inclusive school system. And we have gained experience in the model regions, which can succeed, as well as in school, and already have more than 70 percent of children with special educational needs in inclusive schools. If there were not Lower Austria, it would probably be 80 percent, because Lower Austria has especially many special schools. Instead of concentrating now, including schools, including education, innovation in this pedagogy and support structures, focus on developing special schools, re-separate these children, stigmatize the children, and rob the children of the hope that they can really take a foothold in life, and that they also have a chance to rise on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Look She's going to South Tyrol. 40 years of living inclusion, lived autonomy. There you can see what's going on. The second issue I have brought with me is the point which Mr Bundeskanzler has very much appreciated. Mr. Bundeskanzler – unfortunately he is not in space – if you believe that you can solve the problems and challenges in the school system with the reintroduction of the number notes, then this is really too short. [[Abg. Smoking: Thank God!]] I should like to remind you that hundreds of educators have developed the alternative performance assessment in long-term, detailed work in 2,000 school trials, developed very clear competence descriptions, developed portfolios that have much, much more power to say than any numbering note, and also provide the educators and the parents with the special strengths of their children, but also the special needs, so that they can set up their own target. [[I would like to congratulate SPÖ and NEOS as well as Members of the Pilz list.]] Based on these many years of experience in the thousands of school experiments, dear ÖVP – and many of those who were there at the time – decided in June 2016 to bring the alternative performance assessment into the regular school system and to let the school partners decide on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We said: Dear educators, dear parents, decide what kind of performance assessment you want for your children in folk school! Mr. Fässmann, I have gladly read today's press release. They emphasize that you want to strengthen and expand the autonomy of schools. – Let’s get the schools autonomy! They should decide whether they want alternative performance assessments or reference notes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] That is why I have also brought with me a request which I am now submitting. [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I appeal to the scientist in you, Mr. Fässmann: Leave Please do not lay the groundwork of scientific integrity! Make Please policy on the basis of facts and educational knowledge and basics, and please do not be afraid of parents and educators by making populist statements! I've known you for a long time. We know each other well. I trust that you will continue to shape educational policy very factually, very scientifically oriented, and I look forward to good cooperation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[22:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13657	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next, I give Mrs. National Councillor Claudia Pakpolm the floor. - Please, Mrs. National Councillor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13685	Mr President. Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, and especially dear spectators of today's National Council! My name is Claudia Plasolm; I am from Upper Austria and 23 years old. As the youngest Member of Parliament in this legislative period, I can now give my first speech here in the House. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party ……]] Not only has Parliament's meeting place changed, almost half of the Members are new, and we have as many young as never before in the National Council. Our new Chancellor is also one of the youngest, but already one of the most experienced. Eleven Members are under 30 years old, six of them come from the ranks of the ÖVP. This young, new and, above all, courageous manuscript is also shown in the government programme presented. Studies show that the Austrian youth looks optimistically and confidently into the future. This confidence is also justified, as many future topics will be on the agenda in the next few years. Youth policy is a cross-cutting matter, because all the decisions made here in Parliament by all of us are the most relevant to the next generations. Any decision that will be taken here will also affect the debts of our Austria, and these debts will be borne by the adults of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. It is therefore our responsibility to work permanently for the people and especially for the next generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our youth deserves opportunities, so it is necessary for them to be able to speak along and, above all, to take part in it. That is why we reduce the active electoral age in the works council elections to 16 years, which leads to real co-determination with our apprentices. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The largest trade union in Austria, the student representation, is a strong voice for 1.2 million students. We support our student representatives by anchoring student parliaments by law. As a former student representative, I know that this measure is also an essential part of living political education in our schools. Almost every second Austrian, or every other Austrian, is involved on average 5 hours a week voluntarily in our associations, in our society. 1.5 million volunteers in our country are under 30 years of age, which is an absolute top priority, and that is why we need to promote and, above all, appreciate our voluntary commitment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Through the introduction of an honorary seal, committed people can be uniformly certified their volunteer work and the qualifications acquired with it. There is also a lot ahead of us in the field of education. With an educational obligation, we guarantee that our students, when they leave school, can read, write and expect enough. This is necessary because every tenth youth is without a job and more than 3,000 pupils leave school each year. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... education system!]] Education is also the subject of teaching – my colleague Stefan Schnöll has already pointed this out. Teaching occupations with modern careers and especially with perspectives for further development with Matura, with master exam are necessary for this. The teaching must not be the mere bystanderl in education and labour policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In our diligent apprentices there is a lot of potential and especially the future, and we need to strengthen them, for example with a scholarship system for the Master's exam. Finally, I would like to use the last plenary session in 2017 to propose a few New Year's proposals for all of us: I wish for the future less unqualified calls for interlocutors in the speeches and instead a constructive, respectful and, above all, appreciative one – and not only among the government parties, but above all also in the cooperation in the future committees. [[Abg. Rosary: Qualified only!]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Loacker: Tell the speakers, please!]] It is in our hands that we make Austria a country of possibilities and a country of mutual interaction. Let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13788	The next speaker to speak is Mr Jörg Leichtfried. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e13809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have a fate similar to that of the former President of the National Council: I have now also changed a little, but I should nevertheless like to thank Mr Deimek for his praise on handing over. Transport policy doesn't worry so much either. But I am now dedicating more to Europe's policy, and I must say that I am already doing some after I have looked through and studied your common programme. This debate, too, has not really made it better, I am now quite open to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rupprechter.]] For example, I would have been interested in what the Minister for Transport would have had to say about European transport policy, if the Minister for Economic Affairs could have said something about European economic policy, the Minister for Finance had something about financial policy. [[Abg. New builder: There's no time for this today!]] The silence of the other members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my opinion, not a good style for this first session and is not acceptable. I am not really satisfied with how this has been done so far, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have the feeling at all – now that Mr Kurz is not there for a change, but what is already the standard – that Europe's policy in Mr. Kurz is limited to getting to the headlines when it is appropriate to create good pictures, but this struggle, this constant struggle for the existence and development of the European Union, which is missing from him and which I am missing from you, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely necessary now! [[Call the ÖVP:Na, na, na!]] If we do not fight for Europe, this Europe will not turn to the better – and you do not, ladies and gentlemen. They're about headlines and pictures, and that's what it's all about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, in addition to that, your coalition partner, your government partner, your new political ally, the liberals, everything you have written into this government program, is actually ad absurdum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rupprechter.]] I ask you: How can you, as the former European Party, as the government party of a country in the centre of Europe, agree with your conscience that you are coalating with a party belonging to a political group that wants to destroy Europe, which is in the Federation with the Le Pens, with the Wilders and others?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Schimanek: Ajajaj!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot take your European policy seriously – good night, the European Party of the European People's Party (EFTA)! – I'm coming to you, don't worry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: I already believed we need the doctor!]] [[Abg. Rosary: We don't take you!]] Speaking of good conscience: Almost even more astonished me what else I read in the government program. I was quite surprised when the Federal Chancellor said in his speech that the government programme is the sum of the election promises. – Yes, that’s true, that’s true for the ÖVP. What she promised the sponsor of her election campaign, it happened. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, Ceta is implemented in song and soundless, foreign forethought is accepted in song and soundless, arbitration courts, private tribunals are accepted songless and soundless. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rupprechter and Mr Minzig]] I must now apologise to the liberals, ladies and gentlemen, in my last speech I have accused you of having fallen twice before you were in the government. I really have to apologize, because it happened to Ceta for the third time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] That's why: If you still have a sense of your constituency, if you still think of those you have chosen, if you do not want to betray those, then you will agree with, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals in this request that we are going to make, otherwise the voters will run away in masses! You've already experienced this before, that's what happened. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bißmann.]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – You may be able to stick to what your colleague said earlier on interlocutory calls! Dear ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much! [[22:23]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14031	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Carmen Schimanek is next spoken. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14060	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak in my speech on women's issues, but please allow me to begin by congratulating Mr Leichtfried on his emotions. I would have liked to see these emotions from you in the transport policy, especially in the transport policy concerning the Tyrolean Unterinntal, the toll problems in Kufstein. There would have been such an emotion of yours would have been desirable, then we would have taken a little further. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] But I am very confident that the new Minister Hofer will be there much more for us and will not leave us in the rain as you did at the time. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But now on my real subject, on women's policy: I am very glad to have been able to cooperate in this women's programme. It’s really a joy to be able to bring yourself in and do things. We are now creating framework conditions for freedom of choice and for independent decision-making and thereby supporting women. That makes me very happy and proud. We have defined major objectives: equal pay for equivalent work, improving the compatibility of family and work, social security for women also in old age, women's health, better support for pregnant women, prevention of violence and the integration of women. I would very much like to give you a deeper insight into several topics, but unfortunately time is already very advanced and very scarce, so I will now deal with very few keywords. On the subject of equal pay for equal work, it is very, very important to me that we also focus on re-evaluation of the fields of work. What is also very important to me is that we combine all the income reports we have – there are some – to a uniform standard so that we do not constantly talk about different figures in income statistics and finally know what it is all about. This is a very, very big step. The compatibility of the family and the profession is also about the exchange of information between businesses and women who have been selected – I have already submitted a number of applications in previous legislative periods. It is very important to maintain the commitment of women to businesses to ensure that contact is not lost and that women have the chance to continue coming up on the career leader. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Social security for women: It is very, very important to me to make improvements in the Maintenance Advancement Act – Daniela Holtinger has already mentioned it today. This is very, very important to me, and we have to start an improvement. It is not the case that, like the Social Democrats who were in the government for eleven years and then came with a request three days before a National Council election and tried to do something - – – no! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Plessl.]] You've always rejected it and you've always postponed it. It was my proposal to make a survey. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] - No, no. We'll do it now, we'll fix it now. We will repair what you have missed for many years in many puzzles, and that will be part of it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What's very important to me is that we secure the women's budget again. We also need financial security for the women's homes. This has always been my concern, and we will continue to guarantee it. Another important part of me is the health care of women. I am very glad that we were able to have discussions with our Minister for Health. Very important is an osteoporosis examination and of course also that we repair the deterioration in mammography screening again. We know that the number of mammography studies has decreased rapidly, from 63 percent in the old form to 37 percent in the present. It is absolutely necessary that we make an improvement for the women concerned again. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also very important to me that we get even more into the field of gender medicine. It's just fact and fact that medications affect women differently than men, and that's why we have to work intensively. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, only as clarification: Support for pregnant girls and women does not imply that we are shaking at the deadline solution. I reject this statement that you made here today at this speaker's desk! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We're gonna support pregnant women, that's a big concern to me. It also needs contraception. But this premise that we're shaking at the deadline solution, I won't leave it here. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] All in all, I think that we have been very ambitious about women's policy. We will implement a lot, we will make a women's policy with heart and mind, and we will no longer need to be victims in our own country, just as we have been engaged in a suffrage policy for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14187	Mrs National Councillor Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14212	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am convinced that many of us here in Parliament want to work on a common goal, namely that people can shape their lives in the way they themselves consider them to be right – self-responsible and self-determined. This has often been the case today. Politics – and I am convinced that – must create the framework within which one can then move, diversity can be lived, and there are opportunities for all who can then be lived according to their possibilities. Therefore, especially in the area of family and people with disabilities, which I would like to highlight now, it has always been important in the past to see the family as it really is, in all its forms. There are parents and children, there are men and women in a family, there are patchwork families, there are rainbow families and there are single parents families. And everyone has the right to live as they wish, self-responsible and self-determined. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the area of people with disabilities, it was always important in the past to make inclusion liveable in all areas of life, started in kindergarten through school to the labour market. I am convinced that education and work are the foundation for a self-determined life. It was also always important for us to gradually implement the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, and for that there is also the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities. In the past, we have taken a number of joint decisions, including the ÖVP. I recall the Kindergarten offensive, I recall better all day care, including the children's money account, which has actually created options and also provided more fatherly participation. In the area of people with disabilities, we have implemented the model regions for the gradual abolition of special schools – a very, very important step so that all children can experience equal education. And we have decided on the large inclusion package, which has released more funds for labour market policy for people with disabilities and has also substantially increased the rights for the disabled lawyer or the monitoring committee. All these are steps that have taken us, as I find, into an open, modern society, into an equal society. I therefore feel the more sad and painful I see when I look at some of the chapters in the areas of family policy and disability policy in the government programme. What do I mean by that? Family policy – and this really hurts – actually becomes even better on father, mother, child: Children – reduces, and through the family bonus, which has been mentioned many times today, you also rely on the principle that every child is worth the same amount. It is true that not all of them will benefit equally. Even the twelve-hour day – I am convinced of that – will not contribute to a better family life. I very much hope that Mrs Minister will be able to talk about it. In the field of children with disabilities and their parents, the commitment to the special school to be read in the government programme means a truly serious setback, which means that inclusion can no longer be lived from the beginning and can only then find influence again with laborious programmes in adult life. That's really a shame, that's a farce! Mrs Bundesminister other than Hamerschmid has also referred to it, which is really a hearty setback. I hope there will also be Federal Minister Fässmann and that the last word has not yet been spoken. An inclusive school is really the basis for a future of chance for all children in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the same is true of me in the chapter increasing pocket money in disability facilities. We have been fighting for years for social security. Now this is set out in the government programme, and I also hope to see the current government parties that we are actually moving towards social security. I hope that there will be a turnaround in these areas so that we can work together for a self-determined and self-responsible future for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14282	Mrs. Maria Großbauer has been reported to speak. I can give the floor to Mrs National Councillor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14306	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Artists and representatives of the cultural institutions of our country! Austria is a cultural nation, a country full of creativity, diversity and people with passion for artistic expression, from Vienna to Bregenz and from Grödig to Gleisdorf. For this we are famous all over the world and are also admired, be it the Salzburg Festival, the Ars Electronica or countless smaller festivals. Or: Our architecture, our federal theatre, the federal museums, the national museums, the many freelance artists and not forget the music schools, music clubs and private cultural associations in all regions of our country – they all make up our lively cultural diversity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This government is a special concern for art and culture, in all its forms, colors and expressions. It is therefore expressly committed to public support – including private initiatives. It is our task to create a fertile soil on which art and culture can thrive and thrive freely so that we can continue to be a cultural nation in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also expressly confess to quality. I am bringing you today a concrete example of what I mean by that. Art and culture in education: For example, in Tyrol and Vorarlberg we have a massive lack of music pedagogy in folk schools. In schools, however, our future artists and the audience of tomorrow are sitting. Currently, for example, graduates of an IGP study – instrumental and vocal education – are allowed to teach at music schools, but not at folk schools. This gap must be closed in order to make the quality of art education consistently high. Above all, it is about inspiring young people for art, stimulating curiosity, giving them the opportunity to sniff in as many directions as possible. This creativity of our children and young people is not only the future of art, but also an important competence that can be very useful in many areas of life and in many activities. Culture connects, builds bridges between people, nations and religions. This is why culture is also important in our schools. It expands the horizon and has a highly integrative element. Not least, culture is also heart education. However, this awareness of art and culture must be continued and strengthened in various areas, especially in the public media; Tag: more film and music by artists living in Austria. I would like to make an explicit statement here: The richest radio station in our country with more than 2.7 million listeners daily should also contribute to cultural awareness. For the last ten to 15 years, a great pop landscape has developed in Austria – for just as long I have been personally dealing with this topic. Except for a few exceptions, these artists on Ö3 can hardly be found at the high-range broadcast times such as in the Ö3 alarm clock. That is why we want to examine a kind of Austrian quota, linked to the rich times. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In any case, this must be significantly higher than the current broadcast minute percentage of almost 15 percent. This causes something in our music landscape and economy, in the free scene e. Important for all cultural institutions, no matter what size, are planning security and a reduction of bureaucracy according to the motto: as much as necessary, but as little as possible. We want to devote ourselves to these two pillars. That's why I can also say to the Federal Theatres and Federal Museums: We confess ourselves quite clearly to strong, self-responsible houses with intelligent structures, clear specifications and a similar control. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Whether and what structures are needed, we will continue to work together with stakeholders and experts. There are, of course, also issues that we need to move forward at European level, especially, of course, copyright in the digital area. I hope that we can further advance this complex issue within the framework of our EU Presidency next year. A major concern is to us and me personally a regular and open dialogue with artists, representatives of cultural institutions and artists' representatives. Appreciation, recognition and respectful dealings with these partners are a great concern to me – that is also culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know that some members of the Federal Government and colleagues in the National Council are also very musical, partly even very active. I would say that this is a particularly good condition for cultural policy, because it is also an understanding in art and culture. Culture connects people, nations and religions. I hope that it will also link all the political groups in this House. In this sense, I am looking forward to a good cooperation for culture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14413	Mrs. Ruth Becher is speaking on behalf of the National Council. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14434	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, This government programme is the largest redistribution programme away from the working population to the landlord group that has ever existed in the Second Republic. There is no single sentence, no thought of the most pressing problem, in which people can no longer afford to live in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] SPÖ has presented a very flexible rental right, a modern rental right. In your government programme, you are limited to eliminating the essential leaser protection provisions, tearing down the pillars of the existing rental law and systematically reducing the segment of the manageable housing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no mention of a new rental right in your program. Of course, they were also praised by the owners of the house and property, who are pleased that the rent restrictions have been rejected and the interests of the landlords have finally been taken into account. This morning I looked through the apartment offers on the Internet for a three-member family in the second and third districts, and the top offer that has been posted is once 10 000 euros fixed cost, namely 1 450 euros rent – temporary of course – two months rental broker fees, six months rental deposit, and that with a median income for a three-member family of 3 600 euros. And this family tells you about the government: At a 2018 survey, we will consider whether your situation is satisfactory or not! This family has no time. In the meantime, the brokers, the landlords, the lawyers and the experts continue to earn and benefit from this so unsurpassed. visible rental law. In concrete terms, the government programme – and here I really only limit myself to four areas due to the low speaking time – is on the one hand a new set-aside in the founding period district, and this, although the Constitutional Court has rejected it for social policy reasons recently, in order to keep the rents in place. They are destroying, as it were, cheap living space, which is urgently needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After the Bouwog privatization of Schwarz-Blau I – you remember, the state then received 30 000 euros for an apartment, a total of less than 1 billion euros – Black-Blue III is once again planning to privatise tax funds, namely in the old buildings. There is the possibility of getting out of the apartments and leaving the regulated rent; adequate rents can then be required. In Vienna alone – I do not know exactly about the other Länder – 2.5 billion euros have been paid to these houses, and they are now to be privatized and the favourable rents, the regulated rents removed. Access rights are to be seized. You formulate this actually very cynical: The rental needle should be removed. – This concerns all people. All who want to enter their parents' home and are over 25 years old will have to pay an adequate rent, even if they have invested in the apartment themselves. It is already the case that a higher rent is required. It is not that they all pay some cheap rent, but they already have to pay the corresponding category rents. The landlord didn't invest anything. And the proposed income limits, the income monitoring means: Those who work more, who train, who earn better, pay more, will be punished, and those who work part-time, who work black, who live on shares, will be rewarded because they have a lower income. All of this, of course, is a poison for social blending, and it should also apply to all those who have received funding, that is, to the owners of their own homes and to the owners of the property, because they benefit from and can inherit their entire life from the benefits they have received. Overall, I think, one can summarize what this government programme brings: The ÖVP makes policy for real estate investors, and you from FPÖ have sold the Austrian population for a few ministerial posts. I can only say: Shame on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14507	The next item is Mr National Councillor Werner Neubauer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14529	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A few days ago, when the former Chancellor of the Republic of Austria gave Kern an interview, he meant: The Federal Government is good, it can sit in a made bed! I have now looked at what this actually looks like, and I must say that after ten years of Social Democratic Social Ministers, I am not so euphoric when I look at the picture, Mr. Kern, because, as your colleague has said today, there are still a million people living on the poverty line – despite 11 years of SPÖ's Social Ministers. There are 500 000 people who are manifestly poor, and you have left us the highest unemployment in the Second Republic. That means you've already left us a heavy inheritance and not a pillow of rest, as you meant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that also means that I am very grateful that the Federal Government presented today nevertheless goes with a lot of optimism into the next legislative period, because it has not taken action to finance and manifest the power apparatus of bankruptcy parties, but to give attention to those people in this country who have already earned it and who have neglected it in the last ten years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a small proof of this, I can tell you that in these rooms two months ago the Austrian Seniors' Council met in a general assembly and adopted a key request with 20 requests for older people in that country. These 20 demands, Mr. Kern, were the task of the past Federal Government, but you and your Minister of Social Affairs Hundstorfer, including your Minister of Social Affairs Stöger, have not managed to fulfil them. This is the reason why the Council of Seniors has now asked this new Federal Government to raise its demands – because it needs the elderly people in that country. I can tell you that there have already been substantial issues in the government negotiations, such as the fight against massive inflation, the preservation of cash or the safeguarding of medical care, which is very, very important and especially important for older, less mobile people. [[Abg. Loacker: The generation of the possessors takes on even more!]] I am also very happy that the negotiations, together with our negotiating partner ÖVP, have succeeded in establishing a long-term freedom requirement, a minimum pension of EUR 1,200 for people in this country. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think people will be very happy if they really get to enjoy this pension. By the way: Dog-tores and staggers have told us the untruth about why they have not been able to do this for five years. [[Abg. Loacker: Because it is not financial!]] . But, Mr President, you were not present at the negotiations, but I am, and therefore I know that it can be financed. Also You've come to this shame that it's not financeable, but that's how it's gonna be when you're in the opposition, you may not be so much on you and you with the information. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ and the NEOS.]] We have also included the appreciation of women in our programme – in fact, because of their great performance in child rearing, in caring, or perhaps because of their work, when they have to work half-dayly – so that this appreciation is finally brought to them by the Republic of Austria and thus they also receive more earnings for their pension. There will also be an respectable system in the future, and I would also like to thank the Federal Government very much. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There should also be a definitive harmonisation of pensions, and we will ensure that the present system of luxury pensions is abolished. It may not be that such schemes as the ÖBB, the National Bank or the Post Office exist in close-to-state establishments. The Federal Government has voted in favour of changing that. Mr Kern, because You were so proud of your plan A and just to tell the people in Austria what position you went into the election campaign with this Plan A: In this Plan A, you have not dedicated a single sentence to the elderly in this country, and that is disgraceful, which is really disgraceful, and you have on 15. The invoice is presented for this purpose, too. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They were punished, and I think that's good. The new Federal Government will give the elderly people in this country the appreciation they have long deserved, and will ensure that in the future more money remains in the hands of these people, above all. Ageing in dignity must not only be a keyword; this federal government will ensure that this will actually be true. I wish from this point of view from all seniors a happy Christmas festival and a good slide into the new year.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14621	National councillor Alois Stöger is reported to speak. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14642	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Members of the House! Dear Seers! Mr Neubauer did not make it easy for me. [[Abg. New builder: You don't want us either!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] In one point he is right, because he said: In the opposition you are not on you and you with the information. - But that's what you owe yourself. I have given you an information, the social report, and if you had read it, you would have come to know where the difficulties of people with little income are. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You said you didn't know!]] The difficulty lies in the fact that there are many women who have little income, who are part-time employed, and this continues in the pension. [[Abg. Neubauer: What have you done for these women?]] The second reason why some people have little income is related to the fact that there has once been black and blue in Austria, and there has been a massive intervention in pensions. [[Na-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: That's retro!]] If you read very carefully what your so-called programme says, you see, it will be very difficult because you want to remove important measures for these groups of people – I am thinking of older workers who may become unemployed, those who have difficulty in the labour market. For example, if you want to start reducing care again now when it comes to thinking about reintroducing the care rules, I think that's a problem. [[Abg. New builder: You haven't evaluated the care for 30 years! That's embarrassing...! What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I did not want to report today on social policy, which has already been done by Mr Muchitsch, and I wanted to report on the transport policy. What you are describing in your government programme is essentially the continuation of the policy that Werner Faymann has already begun and which the President-in-Office of the Council has now made. [[Abg. Schimanek: I don't believe that!]] And everything that has not been prepared by them is unclear. [[Abg. Neubauer: Four years – three transport ministers!]] We in the Mühlviertel would say: Wischi! Mr Hofer, you still have a lot of work to do, namely to shape and implement the standing principles of this programme. For example, on the question of the 5G strategy: What are we doing to ensure that we also have access to information technology? If you read through the program exactly, you see, it's always about the structure, it's very little about the people. In the programme, you are not saying anything about how workers are moving, except an exception, when you say: The employees of the ÖBB must be able to move. – They say nothing about what it means for workers when it comes to liberalising bus traffic, and what pressure it creates on workers. And – I noticed that, and I would like to look at it in particular – you are talking about some corridors for trucks at the borders. I'd just like to tell you: In the trucks the refugees have come, and if you make corridors for them, then it will be a problem. [[Abg. Gudenus: In the ÖBB too!]] It's about people: In the future, do you want to lower the passenger traffic at the borders that holidaymakers are setting? Do you want to do this, or do you want to think about making a reasonable deal with international traffic? Time is ripe, we also need more courage and more innovation in this area. I would have expected a few sentences on the diesel scandal, I would have expected a few sentences on the German toll, I would have expected more concrete targets for electromobility – but this is still possible. I have a warning to give: They change the Federal Ministry Act, and there will be a shared competence between Transport Ministers and Finance Ministers. From history, from my experience: Don't let that happen, that's not good! Voices You have a referral back today, which is to be discussed well in the Committee! I'm telling you this from experience. I was a transport minister myself, I know that's a problem. But I can also congratulate you: You'll take over an excellent house. The employees of the BMVIT are excellent, also the companies that belong to it have excellent employees, because there should also be something going on. I would also like to make a positive criticism: They have been involved in this – at least in the programme – and this is a good thing. It's also important to me that you do something in road traffic. I remember: In my constituency we urgently need the A 26, we urgently need the extension of the Summerauerbahn, the Mühlkreisbahn, in all other regions. I believe that this is important, and I therefore welcome the announcement that a procedural acceleration is at least carried out. In this sense, I look forward to a constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14792	Mr Ernst Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen and everyone who is still listening! It is for me – as for some previous speakers – the first appearance here in Parliament, in the National Council. Even though I was allowed to go through some political stations – I was 20 years mayor, ten years in the state day and a few years in the Federal Council – this is a very special honor to the National Council. Finally, it also means taking part in the common rules for a good living together in Austria. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is, however, a very special and memorable day, because we have also experienced the new Federal Government here today. This is with a very ambitious Government programme started. A government programme is actually a fitness program, a fitness program for all of Austria. All of Austria is the gym, and we 183 Members and all members of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, are actually the chosen fitness trainers for a better Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does fitness mean for Austria? – That means, on the one hand, training away unhealthy fat in some places, and on the other hand, it is natural to build muscles in very important, central areas of the future. For example, training fat away may mean reducing bureaucratic obstacles, because excessive bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly the biggest enemy of the house mind. Excessive bureaucracy is certainly the hardest opponent of self-responsibility. Excessive bureaucracy is certainly the strongest anti-smooth for the freedom of individuals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore important, on the one hand, to train away fat, on the other hand, to build muscles in the central areas of the future. Today, our Federal Chancellor, in the Government Declaration, has formulated it very aptly: ‘Change is nothing that can be stopped.’ We are actually experiencing change in all areas of life. Our task, our fitness program must be to redirect this energy of change, this wind of change into an energy of the future. I am, of course, in favour of strengthening the rural area. We live in Austria in an extremely great country. There we are, I believe, all of us agree. It is a country with a very wide variety. To implement this fitness programme would mean that we make a commitment to equal opportunities in all areas, especially in rural areas. There are currently 2 100 municipalities in Austria. The largest municipality is the city of Vienna with about 1.9 million inhabitants, the smallest municipality – the Tyroleans know that best – is Gramais with 47 inhabitants, located outside Tyrol. Despite these great differences, we are following the principle of the community of unity with our constitutional system. The principle of the community of unity means that each community has the same rights and obligations, regardless of its size. But if we really want to grant these same rights and obligations, we also need to make a clear commitment to equal regional habitats. This new government programme contains many points, of which I would just like to quote three very exemplaryly. First of all, we are concerned with the sustainable development of broadband and mobile communications. This is a central task for us in shaping the future of urban, but especially rural areas. Secondly, I would like to mention the security of medical care, such as the facilitated establishment of group practices or the creation of rural doctor scholarships, in order to ensure medical care in the so-called remote areas, in rural areas. Thirdly, we certainly need more than ever new mobility solutions, for example by car sharing or with micro-oil concepts. I am very confident that this federal government, together with this government programme, will achieve what we need as fitness trainers and fitness trainers for Austria. On the one hand, as I have said, this is to train away unhealthy fat, and on the other hand to build muscles where it is necessary for the future of our country. The, uh... I think we should wish. All the best for 2018, and I also wish you a happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14895	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e14919	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as part of the Declaration of Government, it is not quite easy to deal with individual chapters, because in many areas we have heard very dirty, general descriptions of the state in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] But if you stay very general, this often leads to you believing that you are still an opinion, but in detail the differences become apparent. The government programme is not necessarily informative either. Here you have tried to use beautiful words, but if you look at the formulations in concrete terms, the thing looks different. I would like to start with the positive area of digitalisation and highlight that work in this area in the past has been very positive and has worked very well across fractions. That is why I must also stress that it is nice that in the government programme concerning this area it is very, very often that successful existing projects should be continued, starting from Silicon Austria to the open innovation strategy. This also shows that we are all on a good path. Where I'm doing harder, there are some no-na targets, as we would say in Carinthian, which we all sign. Fast Internet is such an example. Everyone will say this is important, but the question is: How do we really want to implement this? In the UK today it has been decided that there will be a legal claim from 2020 onwards, and in Austria we do not know how to finance the 5G strategy. Everyone will say that we want to become European champions in the FTI area is great. This will be signed by everyone, no, but the question is: What are the concrete measures? Furthermore, the area of efficiency and effectiveness of the innovation system will continue. This will also be signed by everyone as a goal, and the concrete measures are unfortunately missing here too. One thing I noticed very strongly in these areas: If we as politicians demand something, then it would be really nice if we progressed with good example and lived up to what we expect. So if we say that the structures in the field of FTI should become slimmer, we could also say as a federal government that we do not increase from two to three ministries responsible for research, but bundle the whole in one place. You could have done that, too – did not happen. So once again we have fragmented the responsibility of the resort, we have created more structures. That is, in the top-level, at the government level, there are several parallel structures, but then one says one wants to reform them. It doesn't fit together like that in the back and in the front. That is also the question of credibility. You could also live up to what you demand. At this point I would like to focus very briefly on the island solutions. When it comes to innovation, there has been a great deal of talk about education policy today, but innovation clearly means more. Today it has been said quite often that order, discipline, achievement are the most important things. But are the great, the great scientists in Austria, the researchers, our inventors who came to her goal only through hard order, discipline and achievement, or was that also curiosity, was the joy, was the enthusiasm, was the interest? We have repeatedly promoted all these things in the innovation field, and in the education sector, we do not want to know anything about them, because we say that it is about order, discipline and achievement. They forget that this can also be a joy, that inventive spirit can be something exciting, that people, if they like to do something, do it right. These are all things that would be important for the innovation landscape. In the field of education, we have not heard anything about it today. What really is my heart is the area of equal opportunities, that you should really give young people at the university opportunities, whether parents are poor or rich. There can be no tuition fees, because they unfortunately make a difference. We need the best heads and not those heads whose parents can afford the whole thing. These are all things that are very, very strongly related to our innovation system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could carry it all out even further. Unfortunately, it has been forgotten the very central area of people who are deeply affected by digitalisation. What does the working world of the future look like? There's nothing in the program for this. What are new working time models, except for the 12-hour day to be introduced? All these questions of the working world 4.0 have not been mentioned at all. What do we do with people who cannot help who are unemployed who do not have the skills? All these things have been forgotten. Human beings must also be at the heart of digital development. Unfortunately, this area has been completely forgotten. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to address a central point which we have already discussed today. Mr Krainer said: A central point in the context of digitalisation will be the question of distribution justice. We therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am looking forward to working together in the next few years and can really ask that we become more concrete in the future, especially in the committees. I was sorry that the members of the government were not allowed to speak today. I think we should change that in the future. We should be more critical of each other, and these public places will not, I believe, bring us forward. Let us really try, at least then in the In the future, we will be discussing intensively and taking up ideas too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[23:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15085	Thank you, honourable Member. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next, Deputy Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15112	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Believers who may still be watching at this time! Yes, it was a very quiet afternoon and also a quiet evening. The government programme cannot be too bad, because I have now heard of the opposition relatively little of constructive criticism in the afternoon and evening, and the excitement was relatively low. I've expected more resistance. That is to say, the program, the 180 pages are likely to have arrived well in the opposition as a whole. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] . I felt the debate was very constructive and quiet. Of course, I am happy personally: When I look around, I have to the left next to me blue, right next to me blue, behind me blue, in front of me blue. So Christmas can come, of course it's beautiful. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:And even blue?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The negotiations were very constructive, very exciting. I was also allowed to work in two subgroups and believe that the results can also be seen. Especially in the area of social affairs and work, where I was allowed to work, we were able to achieve very, very, very positive changes for Austria. I think that's exactly what the population has expected of us. Mr. Ex-Infrastructure, Health and Social Ministers – among others – Stöger, I have to tell you, unfortunately, we have reached God under your predecessor dog's grave and you very, very little for the population, namely for the working population. We will change that over the next five years. The Austrians, who get up on Monday to work, will in the future also learn the appreciation of us they deserve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Electoral workers in Austria are already at the FPÖ anyway, and we will now also be represented in the government accordingly. I would like to clarify a few things today, especially as regards minimum security, because they have also been miscommunicationd in the press. [[Abg. Knes: The press is guilty?]] I have repeated several times in recent years that we have had a terrifying development under Red and Black-Alt: 340 000 people with minimum insurance, 190 000 in need, 350 000 to 400 000 unemployed and some 80 000 asylum seekers. These were figures that were simply no longer feasible, and the social system in Austria, of course, has dominated under the red rule like an emperor's semi. That's what we're going to change. In order to ensure minimum security, the most important things are repeated once again: Immigration into the Austrian social state through the community of social assistance needs to be stopped, and we will stop that. Very important: The right to demand-oriented minimum security in Austria will have to be legally resided in Austria for at least five years in the past six years. What will also be very important – Mr Stöger, you have unfortunately failed – is that we will provide monthly figures in all areas with accurate data. The population has a right to read developments as well. Unfortunately, you have never delivered this over years, Lord Stöger! That was sad reality. We will introduce the cover of 1,500 euros. It is also quite clear that we will be more forceful in-services. It is very important – and this has been mentioned briefly today – that there will also be a fundamental labour and participation obligation for minimum insurance providers. The last very important point, I believe, has also arrived: the reduction of the amount of money available to asylum seekers and eligible persons to 365 euros plus allowances. That is, we will implement exactly what the people have expected of us over years. One more topic: They have also aroused some false fears among the population today as regards unemployment benefit. Very soon: It will be paid for at least three years and it will be higher than before. To conclude: The population has told us exactly these things in recent years, they want to be fair, they want to have them fairly. People who go to work have a claim to earn more than someone who just hangs in the social system. That is what we will ensure over the next five years. Despite everything, I wish all from left to right happy Christmas and a good slide. I'll see you in the new year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15195	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15222	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months we have experienced a very interesting sociological experiment in Austria. We have experienced that Austria has been staged a giant show: the show by the evil alien. The show continues because the two parties that form the government need this show so they can go through their actual program. The show is called the evil alien. The actual programme means: Give the rich, take the poor! So we have two levels of government policy. The outer layer is devoted to the fight against the evil foreigners. [[Abg. Höbart: That's so bad!]] This is the layer with which the sponsors of the Federal Chancellor – real estate giants, large entrepreneurs and industrialists – are honoured. [[Abg. Höbart: The Chamber of Workers, for example!]] That's why there should be the 12-hour day, the Aus für Arbeitsinnenbetriebsratweise, the Aus für Jugendverfahrens im Betrieb, a weakening of the Chamber of Workers. For this purpose, rich tax reliefs are received. That's why only the children of service providers receive 1 500 euros of children's bonus. – So far to the basic. Now on the plans of the evil foreign show; I quote from the government program. [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] - Don't go, you've written that! [[Abg. Schimanek: But not in the polemics!]] I'll read it to you: “Sudden self-sustainability, participation in the labour market and successful participation in the education system are the goal of successful integration.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes! Yes!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Bravo!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Who can have something against it? - Not me! I'm even very much for that. [[Abg. Rosary: What is now?]] No one has anything against it, quite the contrary. Unfortunately, however, the government parties are doing everything to prevent this successful integration, because no asylum seekers are allowed to work. [[Abg. Rosary: asylum seekers!]] The required rapid self-sustainability is prohibited by law. Unfortunately, asylum seekers are excluded from the labour market for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] That doesn't have to be, that's not necessary, and that's also wrong. In Germany, asylum seekers are allowed to work after three months. [[Call to the ÖVP: But SPÖ decided to do so!]] This would actually make possible the rapid self-sustainability required by the ÖVP/FPÖ government. [[Abg. Rosary: We know the word “hypocritical, ” that is in the canon of the call for order!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I see ÖVP and FPÖ as the Holy Inquisition in the witch process. The woman accused of witchcraft is being tied up in the water. If she swims up, she's a witch. If she goes down, she's not a witch – but she's dead. [[Abg. Rosary: Who actually wrote this speech to you?]] The integration requirements of ÖVP and FPÖ are equally absurd. No one can fulfill them because they simply cannot be fulfilled. If integration in ghetto classes and ghetto accommodation is not successful, the government parties will say: We told you, they're not integrable! If integration is successful against all resistances, the government parties will say: Well, please, our actions work! Finally, my analysis of the government's measures for integration [[Abg. Rosary: A big word!]] There are none! These are measures that lead to ghetto formation and long-term separation in Austria in us and those. But I suppose that didn't happen to you, but that's what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15433	Thank you. The next item is the speech by Mr Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15458	High Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can give my first speech in this House on the issue of administrative reform and on what is in the government programme. We have already heard from Mr Stefan today that the word administrative reform can basically no longer be heard. Or with the words of a Journa- It should be said that: The cemetery is full of nameless administrative reforms. It is all the better and more correct that this government programme contains a very ambitious approach to administrative and constitutional reform. The king's discipline of an administrative and constitutional reform will certainly be those who are concerned with researching the competences of Articles 10 to 15 of the Constitution, without in any way indicating federalism's struggle, to see clearly at what level one can regulate, and to observe what one can better regulate with people and with people close to them and where there is a need for central control. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] I believe that the Federal Government has not only a programmed message in the government programme, but also the right man in this position with Federal Minister Josef Moser, who is undoubtedly one of the most important experts on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say two more things that can be selected from this rich programme. Today we have talked a lot about digitization and modernisation. We were one of the leading countries in the eGovernment until 2006. Digitalisation must not stop before the administration, because digitalisation in the administration means simplification for citizens, simplification for those seeking legal assistance, and in the final effect, an increase in the efficiency of administration. We will have to face this task, and we must pursue it quickly, aim-orientedly and effectively. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the last twenty and thirty years, we have created many rules here, including with the participation of our party. We have restricted the freedom of citizens with these rules, but we have therefore also significantly reduced the freedom of entrepreneurship. If we see today how many commissioners we have in order to implement some partially contradicting administrative rules, we know that in the sense of free entrepreneurship and for citizens quick action, rapid deregulation and the return of freedom and personal responsibility are essential. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is certain – and I found yesterday in the Constitutional Committee that all parties have sent competent and good lawyers there, whether colleagues Scherak, colleagues Stefan, colleagues Schrangl, colleagues Noll, who is not here now, or also colleagues Jarolim; there are very many competent and experienced lawyers in there –: We will only be able to resolve many parts of what I have said here together. I am always calling this a positive, illustrious example of the administrative reform of jurisdiction. This was a really big and good administrative reform, a big throw, which has actually been sold very much under its value. We will have to change the procedural rules. I believe it is clear that civil law rules will be necessary in the procedures. I am thinking, for example, of fact and innovation at the end of the first instance or of cost replacement rules. But this is only a prelude. For the very large approach, we need a clear allocation of competence. That's what we're for. I believe that we will work together in this House with the lawyers and with our Minister Josef Moser as the expert in state reform and skill adjustment. I look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15539	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Povysil has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15563	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the plenary, on the gallery, via the Internet! As part of the presentation of the government programme, I have listened very carefully to the contributions made by all political groups to health, and I am pleased that there are hardly ideological pitfalls there, but essentially everyone, though with different access, tries to achieve the best for the population, for the patient. A little bit. I am afraid of social democracy, because they have the burning of witches in their minds. I'm red-haired, I hope it doesn't hit me. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, a new and different approach to health policy in our government programme. All the problems we now have, for example in the implementation of the working time legislation or in the provision of regional services in rural areas or in the financing or because of the lack of doctors, they do not come across us as an overwhelming tsunami, but they were predictable. Such a thing can be planned, because ten years before that one knew, if not even longer. Our access is therefore quite clear, to achieve and make a forward-looking, planned health policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We can't get here, drum ourselves on the chest, and say we have the best health system in the world. That's not true! We are backward in many things and no longer progressive. And we're putting a lot of money into this system, but finally it's sluggishing in many, many channels, and it's very little in the patient's hands. What are the new ways we want to go? – We want a reform of social security so that the benefits come to the patient. We want a reform in the direction of transparency and the management of funding flows, so that there is really a control in the health system, and not only a disability through funding. We want to give universities more training places so that we can get more young doctors into our country, and we want to create funding so that these young people also stay with us and do not emigrate. A third of all students who are finished are leaving Austria. We want to create hospital landscapes with focus, a constriction of the hospital with the extramural area, with the region. We want to enable a variety of branches in the regions, i.e. not an institutional supply chain across the region, but individual variety of opportunities in the branch. We want to establish health teams that can meet the complex, ever-growing challenges of medicine. The family doctor must be a contact person, he should be strengthened. A trusted person for the patient is again clearly and clearly installed. In view of the complexity of this system, we must see that we face huge challenges. It is so much new in medicine every day that we have to consider whether we accept the way we accept it and how we give it to the entire population, because there is a huge gap between the possible and the feasible for us. There we will have to deal with very clear ethical and social issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Man is at the centre of our entire programme in its entire way of life. We want to promote health competence so that it doesn't even come to an illness. Therefore, I speak not only of the sick person, but of the human being in his life - style. We want to release the decision-making possibilities – and this is the subject that we had before –: Everyone can decide how to live with us. We want to strengthen self-responsibility. I'll ask you, I'll ask you: Go the way with us, because the way with us is the way with the people in our country! I hope we have a common path and your consent in many things.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15625	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Klinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15649	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All listeners and spectators! Representatives of the Government! A year and a half ago, I was assigned the task of working on the Economic Programme of the Freedom Party – a very interesting task with enormous challenges in terms of Industry 4.0 – and it has succeeded in establishing in a consensus an economic programme, which I believe can be seen and is set out in the essential parameter to bring our country Austria – which was our vision and the challenge – back to the top 3 of the locations for the economy in Europe. If I recall the beginning of today's session, I notice that Mr Klubobmann Kern said, except for the merger of the SVs, it is only homeopathic doses that would be produced by the new coalition government. Mr Strolz said he didn't find lighthouses. But what are the facts in the new government programme? – You have already heard that the combination of social security institutions – and we have 22 social insurance institutions and 15 health care institutions, which is already speaking alone volumes – is a very, very essential measure so that Austria’s management can be more slender and more efficient. So here we have a lighthouse, a topic that has never been addressed by the previous governments over the past few years, but we have had ourselves an opinion of 600,000 euros, which showed that everything is so good anyway, but in fact this system has been extremely ill. We've also been on pensions. We have said that special pensions for privileged public establishments must be abolished. Well, if that's not an announcement in the pension system, I wonder: Where, then, are the lighthouses of the previous governments? Or in the case of grants: In Austria, we have over 50,000 different funding, especially in the energy sector, and these 50,000 subsidies were often double funding, inefficient funding, which were not designed to ensure the marketability of the system. It was a permanent promotion instead of a boost promotion. And that's where we've been. We will only promote energy systems if they can continue to be marketable in the future. The energy supply will be a very special chapter in this new coalition, under these new conditions for Austria. This concerns mainly hydropower. The hydropower supplies the electricity for Austria to nearly two-thirds – two-thirds with an expansion potential of two-thirds. That is, if we use our hydropower potential, then we can achieve self-sufficiency alone with the hydropower in the electricity sector. This is also a very, very important statement, which is also contained in the government programme. If I now put everything together, from the self-responsibility of the workers to the family, which is to be made possible in our country again, then I ask myself: What does the opposition do when it says that this program is not ambitious, it only consists of homeopathic doses? Mr Klubobmann Kern, if you say that a tiger has occurred and has ended up as a bedheader, then I would recommend: No one throws stones in the glass house, not with silver stones at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15700	Thank you, honourable Member. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15725	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think, especially in the area of tourism, we have achieved a great deal – beyond the reduction in VAT from 13 to 10 per cent already mentioned today, beyond the long-needed reduction in the amortization period from 40 years to 25 years, et cetera – and that has really been mentioned. We have been able to set milestones in tourism, I think, and the prerequisite for this was our tourism negotiations right at the beginning. These negotiations have been comraded by the concern that we really have to move and pass on something positive for our tourism. It was not the question in the foreground: What brings us blues something? What does the ÖVP bring?, but the only question that was to be answered was: What brings our tourism on? That's why we took a little further. I thank the ÖVP for the great and correct negotiation. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The result can be seen: There has been no such programme in the past. I just want to limit myself to a few milestones that we have set. Because today has been said again and again that we have described a lot of paper, but there is nothing in the program: If you read this correctly, you see, it's incredibly much inside! We have also been able to set lighthouses. I would now like to mention some of these lighthouses. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, how extensive was the last government programme on tourism? I looked at that – four lines, please! There were four lines in the area of tourism in the last government programme. There you must have grumbled the ÖVP very well, which must have suppressed her very well in order to achieve that she was willing to agree to a government programme containing only four lines of tourism. Incredible! If you would add that from 114 pages to our 179 pages, that would be six lines. However, instead of six lines, we have three-quarters of sides to the area of tourism. That's about 150 lines – that's 25 times more! In view of this, does anyone want to say that we have not achieved anything?- Oh, my God! - Well, please. 150 lines, 25 times more! This shows the importance that tourism has for this federal government! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] The next milestone – Mr Schellhorn stressed it –: In the last legislative period, we have actually fought for four years in the Committee to sum up agriculture and tourism in a ministry. Well, we did that. Thank God! This also has synergies for rural areas and is important for value added. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] We must market our products, which we produce locally, ourselves. This is important for the creation of value, and this brings additional benefits. That's also what the guest wants. I congratulate the government on summarizing these two important economic areas, namely agriculture and tourism, in one ministry. This is a milestone, ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of it. [[Follow-up calls from Mrs Wittmann and Mr Krainer.]] The whole world loves our charm, our nature, our kitchen, our high culture. If we bring these USPs to the ground, then tourism goes off like a rocket. And we will do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] We have developed an overall tourism strategy. We talked about this for years: What is the task of Austria's advertising? What is the task of national tourism organisations? [[Further call of the Abg. Krainer.]] There will be strategic votes in the future. There will be synergies – absolutely positive! The private tenants have been found in a government program for the first time – the small businesses, please! The workplace at home has finally received his due appreciation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I'm coming to the end because I'm already being told: Do you know what's new? – We have for the first time a Mrs Tourism Minister responsible for tourism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We did this for the first time: tourism in female hands. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That too is a milestone. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I wish all of us and the people all the best for tourism. We'll make the impossible possible, we'll do it. - Lovely Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15870	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the detailed speech. I can now, Mr. Ing. Mr Höbart asked for his speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15894	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Yes, a very noisy, emotional speech of my dear and dear colleague Gerald Hauser! I'm going to try to put the whole thing back a little bit calmer now, and of course it's very difficult, I have to say that at this point. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Plessl and Mr Krainer]] What has come of you from this side, from the side of social democracy, what has come from you today, can be yes To sum up, that's what we call backwardness. This is retro-politics, which you are trying to sell us here, and you have to hold it at this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In particular, Mr Yılmaz from Vienna has provided us with measures in the migration and integration sectors; she comes from a city in which, because of the errors of social democracy, it is already partially below and above them. – Look and watch over the next few years, how it can work, how it will work, and then you may also be able to transfer this example to the city of Vienna with free support, or to overwhelm it, ladies and gentlemen! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Krainer]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At this point I would also like to express my joy at this new federal government; political competence, technical competence can be seen here on the government banks. It will be a joy for our Republic, you can be sure. I myself have been involved in the digital field; it will be a very exciting task for the Minister of Economic Affairs to roll out this area, to strengthen it, because Austria in fact has only one chance: We must come from the so-called Innovation Followers to the Innovation Leaders, we must move forward in the first row, and in the digital field, we are planning some things that we want to implement and become here together with our partner, the Austrian People's Party, the new People's Party. Business location and debureaucratisation: They will still be looking – in this sense – at how to relieve the economy now, together with the workers, which has always been our liberal approach. One cannot strictly separate: on the one hand, the economy, on the other hand, the workers, as you always try. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Yes, the apprentice from the Chamber of Workers who calls back in! If you go to the private sector, I have already recommended this to you several times, then you would know what the private sector in the labour market really needs today! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] I'll come back to us again: We understand economy as gearboxes. It is about promoting and demanding good entrepreneurs and also encouraging and demanding workers accordingly, because only when they are linked will they succeed; a good entrepreneur will then be successful if he has motivated and well-trained workers. This is our approach, including in this government programme, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to briefly quote Einstein in the direction of social democracy – that is quite right; You may find yourself in the lead sometime –: “Life is like a bicycle. One has to move forward in order not to lose balance.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have now set ourselves together on a bicycle, we are already strong, we are on track. I wish you a happy Christmas and a good slide. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e15991	Thank you, honourable Member. I now ask Mr. Ing. Robert Lugaran's speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16020	Madam President. Dear Government! I would like to dedicate myself to the SPÖ, because I believe that there is some sort of political dementia here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Otherwise, this cannot be explained: They come out of here all serious, from the chancellor, from the ex-cancer down, and accuse us of poverty in Austria, accuse us that the social system does not work, accuse us that the apartments are not manageable?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I can only explain to myself that you have read at Wikipedia what opposition work means at all, and there it has been said that you have to criticize the government. But what has not been said there is that if you were still in the government two days ago, you should rather refrain from doing so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is more of a self-criticism that you have softened here today, and I really wonder if it is yours to criticize. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] All that you've been stunned in Austria, we need to work hard to repair now, not until tomorrow and not until the day after, because what you've broken in this country for decades, we can't fix it from today to tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] If you then accuse us that this government programme contains only statements of intent: What else is in there? Have you ever seen a government programme that contains concrete laws? Have you ever seen that before? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you, Mr. Ex-Kanzler – I know you're not interested in it – prefer to watch TV or anything on your phone; I can understand that well. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] But I can only tell you one thing, Federal Chancellor: I also understand your situation, because you have, of course, had the problem in the past that Mr. Häupl, the Chamber of Workers, the union, the left wing in your party have made life difficult for you, so you, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic, could not move anything; I understand. But now that there is a government that has the opportunity to change things very well, make a brachial opposition, at a time when you can't yet know what we want to do, where you can't even know what we're going to write in concrete laws; then you're out here today and you're getting all that we have to do to get back so hard to fix what you've done with your SPÖ in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who is “we”?]] [[further calls and cheerfulness of representatives of SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You're surprised that we don't continue your policy. You have wondered today, many of you have wondered today why we do not continue the same policy you have made over decades. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Wittmann.]] I can only tell you one thing: If in democracy someone finally wakes up and finally creates new majority groups and we finally have the opportunity to make a better policy, then we will not be so stupid and repeat the mistakes you made in the past; therefore it would have been better if you had come out today and apologized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've already brought you to the meeting that you didn't have it easy, but you could have apologized for the politics of the past and for the beatings you've also thrown the ÖVP between your legs, so that it couldn't make a proper policy for this country. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] I only remember the refugee problem, because for months you made the wall and blocked it so that no proper policy could be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] That's over now, and that's good – and yes, we may even need two GPs, we may need ten years to make up for all that you've been in this country – yes, that may be – but we're going to go to work tomorrow and we're good things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] And if you watch carefully, then you will see how to rule properly in this country, in the sense of people, in the sense of our country; there you can learn something more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16194	Thank you, honourable Member. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to a voting process, I ask for a little rest. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kolba, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘a federal law amending the Civil Procedures Code to introduce an anti-inhibition and anti-union action on the basis of an opt-out system’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Kuntzl, colleagues, on 'Reimmission of general tuition fees'. The vote has been called for, and as this request has been made by 20 Members, the vote has to be taken. That's why I'm doing this. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I still ask for peace! The ballots to be used can be found in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. For the vote, only those votes can be used. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Kuntzl, colleagues and colleagues, to vote in favour of 'Yes' and to vote against 'No'. Please make sure you only throw one vote. I would now ask Mr Erwin Preiner to start calling for the name; Mr Gahr will replace him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16305	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16343	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 174 votes were cast, 56 ‘Yes’ votes and 118 ‘No’ votes. The application is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Androsch, Antoni; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Bißmann, Bures; Cox; Drozda Thomas, Duzdar Muna; Wallerer, Erasim; Fichtinger Elisabeth, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe; Greiner Karin; Hammerschmid, Heinisch-Hosek, Hochstetter-Lackner, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Holzleitner; Jarolim; Keck, Kern, Knes, Kolba, Kollross, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kovacevic, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist Hermann, Kucher Philip, Kuntzl; Laimer, Leichtfried, Lindner Mario, Lueger Angela; Margreiter, Muchitsch; Noll, walnut; Plessl, Preiner Erwin; Rendi-Wagner, Rossmann; Sandler, honey, Stäger Alois; By; sub-railers; Vogl; Wimmer, Wittmann; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Zadić Alma, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Amon Werner, Angerer; Baumgartner, Berger, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bernhard, Bogner-Strauß, Bösch, Brückl; Deimek, Diesner Wais, Dönmez, double builder; Engelberg, Eßl; Fichtinger Angela, Fürlinger, Prince; Gahr, Gamon Claudia, Gerstl, Gerstner, Gödl, Count Martin, Count Tanja, Griss Irmgard, Grand builder, Gudenus; Haider, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Herbert, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli, Jenewein; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Kaufmann, Kirchbaumer, Kitzmüller, Klinger Wolfgang, Kopf, Köstinger, Krenn, Krisper, Kugler Gudrun, Kühberger, Kumpitsch, Kurz; Lasar, Lausch, Linder Maximilian, Lindinger, Lintl, Loacker, Lopatka, Lugar Robert; Mahrer, Marchetti, Mölzer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Nehammer, Neubauer, Niss Maria Theresia; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pewny, Plasolm, Povysil, Prince; Rädler, Ragger, Rauch, Riemer, Ries Christian, Rosenberger, Rosenkranz, Rupprechter; Schandor, Scherak, Schimanek, Forgedlechner, Schmöll, Schrangl, Schrott, Schwarz, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Sobotka, Stark, Stefan, Steger Petra, Steinacker, Strache, Strasser, Svazek; Tashner, Tschank; Wagner, Aquarius, Weiding, Little, Weaving, Worm; Singer Wolfgang, Zarits Christoph.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16532	We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wöginger, Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on 'Supporting and implementing the government programme'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 1) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on 'no deterioration in working time for workers'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on the exit from the Eurofighter system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on measures to combat poverty in Austria through fair maintenance. [[Abg. Rossmann: There were once all for it!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Noll, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Ceta'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no evasion of the ban on smoking in gastronomy'. There is a request from 20 Members for a secret vote. A secret vote shall be held if decided by the National Council. I shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a secret vote to give a positive signal. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no evasion of the ban on smoking in gastronomy'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Martha Bißmann, Bernhard, colleagues on ‘the EU Commission’s legal action against State aid to nuclear power stations in the context of the competition examination of the Pak II project’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Save World Heritage Status'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Re-introduction of numbers in primary school'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Lighten, ladies and gentlemen on No to secure special charges for Parliament's Group provisions - - - I am sorry, I read this again: on "No to secure special charges for corporations - co-determination of Parliament". [[Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: How was that?]] I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, on budgetary policy for distribution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[00:08:39]] 3rd. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 14/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (3 d.b.) 4. Point report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 30/A by Mr Dr Angelika Winzig, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that makes a preliminary provision for the financial year 2018 (Legal Budget Provisionorium 2018) and amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (4 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16691	Ladies and gentlemen! We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. As far as the reports are concerned, I would point out that a deadline is set until 15. ==References====External links== It is not necessary to waive the 24-hour deadline for the Committee's reports. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16722	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It has already been said: The time limit is 5 hours instead of 24 hours, an amendment has been tabled 1 hour before the beginning of this meeting. When this law came to pass, there were many shortcomings. They have gone beyond many rules and all uses. However, they have also disregarded legal requirements when this law came into force. Since this has already been mentioned several times, I do not want to go into it any more. The Federal Ministry Act essentially deals with the division of power within the government. A word to the friends of freedom, because I have read several times in the newspaper that negotiations have been conducted at eye level – I will now briefly show you this height of attention –: You have lost all of your main arguments and main ones. You have lost the subject of direct democracy, as you have referred to the ÖVP proposal, which you realize at the end of the legislative period, so that you may not be able to bring in a popular desire before. You have completely abandoned your position on CETA – including one of your main topics. You have shifted the glyphosate question in which you were for the abolition on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. They have completely abandoned the fight against the security package and swivel on the ÖVP line. [[Abg. Stefan: Not true at all!]] I went back to 1990 and tried to explore the composition of governments. Until 1990, it was always common practice that both parties had received ministers in the equivalent. Get Now She's six ministers and the ÖVP gets eight ministers. [[Abg. Rosary: We save, yes!]] This was back to 1990 at no government like this, except for bowl II, where the BZÖ had 10 percent and bowl 42 percent. For all other governments that have had up to 10 percent difference, there have always been equally many ministers of both parties. You gave up. Then there is the fact that the Ministries were cleared. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been halved, so it has been reduced and now a Dwarf Ministry. Of course, there is the expertise of Foreign Minister Kneissel in the Middle East, which I do not want to question at all. But how does she want to implement them if she is not allowed to go to Jerusalem and sit in an Islamic party? How can it make foreign policy in the Middle East? – That’s the question I’m really asking myself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, Mr Vice-Chancellor has an overwhelming place with sports and officials. This is a humiliation, a humiliation! When these pink clouds and this float on cloud seven are over in half a year, you'll find that you've drawn the ÖVP massively over the table and you'll actually stand in front of the ruins of your negotiations. In addition, the poor infrastructure minister de facto took out the federal railways with the money. – So much joy when you call it an eye height!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16791	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Magnifice is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Wolfgang Gerstlgenotified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16818	Madam President. Dear Peter Wittmann, you've been more objective before! You didn't say anything to the Federal Ministry Act. Yesterday in the Committee you tried to crush it. It turns out that content is nothing more to be crushed, the polemics you've set now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It was theatre donner, as has already been said today, that one should not be able to discuss the Federal Ministry Act today. What's going on? – A new board of directors has been found, and the new board of directors is setting up new topics, the new board of directors acting on the topics that are needed today: Digitalisation, modernisation, a Ministry of Education, which includes everything forward-looking from early childhood funding to scientific support. [[Abg. Rosary: Very good!]] Your old chancellor said from this point of view today that he wants us to act. - Then I'll tell you: Voices You agree to this Federal Ministry Act so that there is a business division for the Board of Directors, for the ministers! Today you can agree, then the ministers can take action, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Yesterday, you still criticised the fact that the Federal Ministry Act provides for Secretary-Generals. Her executive clubman thought that would be a new institution. [[Abg. Kuntzl: He didn't say that! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I told him yesterday that this was already held in a federal law paper from the year 2000, since then there has been that. Today I have made the effort to see how the SPÖ Secretary-Generals called between 2000 and 2017. There were three Secretary-Generals, a Secretary-General in the Ministry of Transport, Mr. Kassel, and two Secretary-Generals in the Ministry of Education. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's about the competences, you know that!]] Now I can read to you how you named it when you ordered the Secretary-General. ==References== August 2009 Hanspeter Huber was appointed as Secretary General at the Ministry of Education, and the office of Mrs. Claudia Schmied announced what this measure should serve – I quote literally – to: “The appointment declared a spokesman of the minister’s vis-à-vis the APA as a ‘further step in the development of effective performance and administrative culture’.” [[Abg. Drozda: Perfectly prepared!]] In this sense, for the “development of effective performance and administrative culture”, this Federal Government has now also included secretary-generals in the Federal Ministry Act, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Yeah, I think it's time for a new style to keep moving in. It is important not only to try to find a hair in the soup, but to secure the common whole and let the federal government act. With the consent of this Federal Ministry Act, you can help to make Austria a bit more modern, to make progress and to implement the changes that are necessary and may have been partially prevented there and there. In this sense, thank you very much, and I ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16913	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16937	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a legislative budget is being adopted in this House. This is in itself normal if, after a choice, the resorts are re-divided. But today we should discuss how it is achieved and what the content is. You have to look at this, of course; it has already been addressed a few times today, it has not gone perfectly. The information came very, very late and was quite wrong. To the content: We are now in a low interest rate phase, that is, it is not really obvious why we need it. The only reason seems to be that Mr. Vice-Chancellor at the beginning of the year a budgetaryly equipped place of business I would like to see it. That is probably the reason, and that is why we will not agree to this budget procedure either. But if we talk about the more important, we are talking about the double budget that is likely to come to us in March. We all know – and that's not new what I'm saying here – that Austria is currently in debt of around 256 billion euros. That's our debt. To become debt-free, we need to sell our present assets three times. That is why, of course, it is high time we finally tackle the failures of the last governments and decide on a good and sustainable budget. Here is our claim for a sustainable double budget: Zero deficit. - When, if not now? There was no clear commitment in the Committee yesterday to my question whether we are seeking 2018. We would like this for March. I'll keep going. In good times, a budget should not only have a zero deficit, it should simply and simply produce surpluses, in order to create room for urgent reforms. This too is a claim that we should now have. Last, not least is the abolition of cold progression, I would also like to address it. This is something that the population is incredibly unfair to. Mr Haider has said that it is in the programme; if you look carefully, you realize that there is a point in it, it should come to an examination. I now conclude my speech with a statement by former Minister of Finance Schelling, who said: “Words do not pay any debt. Only action brings results.” – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e16985	Thank you very much. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17010	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, at home! It has already been tradition that the opposition must criticize the government, and we have also done so in the last Federal Ministry Act of course. However, SPÖ knows very well, even though it criticises here that the Federal Ministry Act is only the technical cover to implement the government's future important projects. Unfortunately, I also have to say that I too was well prepared and now I am a little disappointed about the speech by Mr Wittmann. I would have liked to have a little more content, so that we can also go into it. [[Abg. Wöginger: There is no content!]] [[Abg. Rosary: You can see that he is a young MP! He doesn't know him yet!]] Obviously, on closer consideration, all your accusations have been dissolved in air and you have seen: Yes, that's a law that the government can work with in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And so that the government can work in the future, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17087	Mr President, the request has been distributed, it is enough to explain it in broad terms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17113	The President-in-Office has decided to do so, so I accept it, and that is why this request has been tabled. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17149	You have to explain the main trains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17172	3rd. In Z 21, Z is 26: ‘26. Digitalisation issues, including government administration for service and interaction with citizens and entrepreneurs. This includes in particular: General digitalisation strategy. EGovernment. Coordination and summary treatment in information technology matters. General issues, including coordination, planning and use of automation-supported data processing, as well as the evaluation of applications of automation-supported data processing in terms of economy, efficiency and economy and cross-border impact control, as well as administrative reform and data protection. Coordination in matters of electronic information transmission. providing a cross-sector electronic citizen information system. Provision of the legal information system and e-law. Issues of the strategic orientation of BRZ GmbH within the meaning of the digitalisation strategy in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance.” 4. Z 26 (section G Z 12 of Part 2 of the Annex to Section 2) reads as follows: ‘26. The following Z 12 is added to Section G [...] of Part 2 of the Annex to Section 2: ‘12. Participation in the preparation of the Austrian Federal Railways Framework Plan with regard to budgetary aspects.’ 5. Z 34 (each) to 37 are referred to as ‘34’ until ‘38’. That is why this request has really been made in full. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I wish we had a good cooperation during this legislative period, thank you at the ÖVP for the really great cooperation in this government agreement, which is quite the opposite of what you say, Mr Wittmann. Maybe you'll wake up and see that this government is doing great work. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[0:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17360	Thank you. The amendment which has just been properly tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17387	Madam President. Values Members of the new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Without polemics and completely sober: We would have imagined something different for the distribution of the ministries. We would have liked to have an independent women's ministry – there is no such thing as political decisions, which are open to the government, which are legitimate and therefore also to respect. A key problem, however, is in fact the constitutional legislation of the Federal Ministries. I think it would be time for the Federal Constitutional Act to be amended easily and to regulate the distribution of the ministries as a government regulation, as it corresponds to the facts. In fact, the way in which this Federal Ministry Act has now come into effect is a kind of government decree; and the deadline application makes it impossible, § 44 para. 1 and 2 Rules of Procedure. In legal science, this is called a legal abuse; and since last night, not a few Members of Parliament both of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ have opposed me to that, one should not do so. The right way would be to change the B-VG for the future and to regulate the distribution of the ministries by government regulation, then the problem is to emancipate Parliament and the parliamentarians in this way. As I said, the political difference does not change anything. But I think that is a task for the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17419	Mrs. Dr.in Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17441	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With the present legislative proposal concerning a legal budget proposal, we allow the new Federal Government a good start in 2018. Due to the re-election, it was not possible to adopt a budget 2018 in the form of the Federal Finance Act in good time before the end of the year. We have shifts within the resorts, so an automatic commission did not make sense either. It would have been possible, but it would not have been enough; therefore we have opted for the legal person. In addition, of course, the distribution of resources also means that the ceilings for the disbursements of the Federal Financial Framework Act must be adjusted in accordance with the amendments to the Federal Ministry Act. We had a meeting of the Committee on Budgets yesterday. Mr Krainer, it was very exciting, I have already seen you during the last legislative period. In the government coalition, you were already the oppositionist, so you didn't have to change your role. That in the preparation of such a request there can be a mistake, that is not just human, that happens everywhere, that happens in companies, but one keeps there together and changes it together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] But you were happy yesterday, like the Christian child, when you discovered a mistake, but you did not want to tell us, but we will find it in the plenary today. Obviously you have no interest in constructive cooperation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to these necessary changes, because it is in the interest of all Austrians to have an actionable government from the first day on – or as a newspaper headlined yesterday: Now get to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17487	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Roman Haider has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17512	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Noll, I am with you, a government regulation that might also be discussed in the Constitutional Committee, would probably have been the better and cleaner way. This is an issue that can be approached in the future. The fact is, there is now a new government with new ministerial composition. In order for the sports resort, which travels from the Ministry of Defence to the Deputy Chancellor, to really work and is financially equipped, we need the amendment to the Federal Ministry's Act and the Budget Provision, as we could of course not decide our own budget because of the election. Mrck has already talked about the fact that we had to make some changes in the Committee on Budgets yesterday, because, of course, due to the deadline, we had to do it quickly. In order to calm down Mr Krainer, who announced yesterday that he had found a third error in the request submitted: We have once again looked at him very carefully and also found a third mistake – to your calming, Mr. Krainer. That is why I am tabling the following amendment to Amendment 30/A: [[Quoted print version removed]] This proposal is now being put to the vote. I ask for general approval so that this Federal Government can also work properly. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[0:32]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17630	Thank you. The amendment that has just been tabled by Mrs Minzig, Mag. Haider, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes. There are two referral requests. I therefore leave the motion for a resolution on agenda item 3 of the honourable Member's motion for a resolution. Arbitrators, fellow Members, to refer the draft on Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2017 to the Constitutional Committee again in 3 of the Supplements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on item 4 of the agenda. Arbitrators, colleagues, the draft federal law, which makes a preliminary provision for the financial year 2018 and amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, should be referred again to the Budget Committee. I am looking for those members of the House who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2017 in 3 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Gerstl, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 6, 9, 21, 26 and 34 to 37. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law, which provides for a provisional provision for the financial year 2018 and amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, in 4 of the supplements. Members have Dr. tiny, Mag. Mr Haider, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Minzig, Mag. Haider, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning Article I. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. [[00:37:01]] 5. Point Choice of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17796	We are now coming to item 5. In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign of approval. [[Abg. Kuntzl: What debate?]] – On the election of the committees, ladies and gentlemen. This was discussed in the Presidential Conference. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Read ahead!]] – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the debate. Mr Zinggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17848	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! What's a consensus? – Consensus means the agreement of all parties involved in a joint project. Consensus does not mean that four agree on what the Fifth Ones have to do and what should apply to them. Consensus does not mean putting a new force in Parliament before finished facts, nor does consensus mean that rules that are nowhere and that are supposed to be a use. The only use known to us in connection with the election of chairmen in the committees is that there should be a search for consensus. But if there should be a use that aims to subdue the smallest fraction, drive it over it and feed it, then it will be time for this use to be changed. In any case, we are not prepared to take over what is assigned to us, regardless of what is assigned to us. It is simply the procedure we are faced with in this connection. We will therefore agree to the committees which are now being formed, but not – then, after they are constituted – the election of the chairmen and all the functions in the committees. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, means living and living. We know, of course, that there are some problems in relation to distribution and distribution justice in the government groups, and we also know that the NEOS/Liberals have this kind of egoism genetically in the program. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] But what is glaring for us is the behaviour of social democracy on the subject of solidarity when it comes to putting its own advantage in the foreground. In any case, everyone who is now being distributed may be able to cut down as much and become happy as possible, but even if it goes, it may not be suffocated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17892	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Rädler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e17958	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! New members of the Federal Government! High house! Good morning! [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A good morning begins with a good new government, with a good style, with a new style, namely with qualified calls. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] It also begins with a new honesty – with a new honesty in its own ranks. [[Abg. Haider: Hö!]] It is also appropriate to make corrections regarding contributions by members of the club. This concerns colleagues Gerstl. I'll put it right: From this point of view, he claimed that Mr Wittmann was more objective. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr Wittmann – is he here today? – was never more material. He has found his role in the Losing Party, because there people like Peter Wittmann – the born loser are needed. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] He's got his position-------- [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the matter!]] This is a matter for the SPÖ, even if you do not want to do so, Mr Schieder. Peter Wittmann lost the mayor's chair in Wiener Neustadt. He lost the State Secretary's office. He's lost seven communities. He has the majority of - -
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18044	Mr President, if your expressions and intermediate calls are different, I would ask you to come to terms with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18060	It's not over yet, he's lost more, we don't want to go into it now, but his speech yesterday and his speech today forced me to point to what it really is. [[Abg. Rosary: Wittmann will be elected anyway! He's in the application!]] But on the matter – because that wasn't objective –: There is still the election of 25 Committee functions today. [[Abg. Jarolim: Great deal!]] You've got the paper in front of you. Mr Jarolim, listen! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Look, 175 functions are ordered there; You will also take over one, I suppose. I've been in municipal politics for 40 years, and as mayor, I'm used to having party representatives then, when they enter into functions, also taking responsibility, dear colleagues from the Pilz list. Mr. Klubobmann of the Pilz List always begins his speeches with or the content of his speeches is that he is in deep concern. – We already know that from someone else. In this deep concern, I will accompany you now. Why take over You don't function in these committees? Come on. You're out of your mouth! [[Abg. Krainer: Please, Madam President!]] The anger policy you need to play as a Marionette of Peter Pilz here, which you should actually let be pre-Christmas. May I give you advice? – Christmas is time to search for an inn, if that is not known to you. [[Cheerfulness with the FPÖ and with representatives of the Pilz list]] Look for a new hostel not in anger policy, but in courage policy! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Höbart]] That would be--
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18149	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to get on with this and to be moderate in your expressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18164	Come out of this flat angle! - That was my concern. Happy Christmas! – No one has said that today about the SPÖ Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18195	Thank you. Next speaker: Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18219	Madam President. Mr Rädler, I would like to say to you: The unqualified calls from you are hopefully history here. The problem is that you will probably give out the unqualified messages from here, so it does not help a lot. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS and SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] On the real topic: Mr Zinggl! We've been discussing the subject for a long time, even with your clubman, it was discussed in the club directors' rounds. There are in the house of Usancen. [[Abg. Zinggl: And the use is consensus!]] Just because you say you don't know these uses, that doesn't mean there's no such use. - That's the first one. The second is consensus: Dear Wolfgang Zinggl! If, over weeks, many political groups negotiate and at the end of the day, four agree and only the Pilz list disagrees, then the consensus also brings about some time to surrender. That's the way it is. I would also have been able to go into the negotiations and say that I would have liked to be committee chairman in the Committee on Justice. That's probably what ÖVP said, she doesn't want it. I could have justament, too, and said for weeks that I would not agree. [[Abg. Rosary: The fungus has lived so well!]] We do not always get it all; that is the case with 183 Members and five political groups, and at the end of the day we need to reach a consensus. Everyone had to give it up, because if everyone wants to get all that he likes, then nobody will probably get it at the end. It won't be that way. Consensus also needs political groups that, at the end of the day, agree to things that may not all be satisfied with – otherwise it will become a bit difficult with consensus here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18281	Thank you. – Mr Zinggl spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would point out that the actual correction must not exceed the duration of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18308	Mr Scherak has claimed that it should have been negotiated with us or that it would have been negotiated with us. The fact is that from the beginning it was clear how the committees are being distributed. This is what the political groups have done with each other. We didn't negotiate. On the contrary, we have presented a number of offers, which are possible, all of which have been rejected. [[In the direction of the Abg. Shear:]] Until the last minute, I also made a phone call with you and asked you to negotiate. I also tried this at SPÖ, and there was no positive signal. It was clear from the outset and we were presented from the outset with a list of how the Presidency of the Committees should have been appointed. We do not want to do this in the future, and this is also an example for all the small groups in the future that they will not be allowed to please and that they will have to be passed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18348	Mr President, that was not in itself an actual correction. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. It is for me to put in place the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Committee on Foreign Policy, Committee on Buildings and Living, Committee on Family and Youth, Committee on Research, Innovation and digitalisation, Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Internal Affairs Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, National Defence Committee, Agriculture and Forestry Committee, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Court of Auditors, Sports Committee, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Education Committee, Transport Committee, People's Procurement Committee, Committee on Economics, Industry and Energy, Science Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in § 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a number of 21 members and substitute members were proposed for the Committees mentioned, each with 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and FPÖ, and one member and one replacement member each to the NEOS and the Pilz list. We shall vote on this proposal. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this in order to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the Members who have been announced by the President's clubs as a member or replacement member and thus as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Members and replacement members as well as their functions are on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at]] [[Parliament actively> Committees available.]] [[00:00:51:00]] 6. Point Election of members and alternate members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18438	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There are nominations of the clubs for members and replacement members: As members, MEPs should be represented by Werner Amon, MBA, Franz Leonhard Eßl, Doris Bures, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Mag. Roman Haider and as replacement members, Dr. Angelikack, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Petra Bayr, MA MLS, MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Since there is therefore an election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote on them with votes, but by lifting them from the seats or a corresponding handsign. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The election of members and substitutes has thus been carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[00:52:25]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18547	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 3 and 5 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 3: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 14/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (3 of Supplements) [...] Deputies Mag. Arbitrators and colleagues shall submit the referral request Supplement III/1. [...] Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, introduce the amendment Annex 3/1, which is explained in the key points. According to § 53 para. 4 GOG will have the reproduction and distribution. [...] Votes: The referral request Annex III/1 is rejected (for this reason S, N, P). [...] The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 3 of the Supplements, shall be adopted by a majority of votes in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 3/1 (V, F).’ ‘TO point 5: Choice of committees In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, the President proposes to hold a debate on this item on the agenda. This proposal shall be adopted unanimously. The National Council shall adopt unanimously the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs Committee on Foreign Affairs Committee on Buildings and Housing Committee on Family Affairs and Youth Research, Innovation and Digitalisation Committee Committee on the Rules of Procedure Health Committee Equal treatment committee Committee on Internal Affairs Justice Committee Consumer Protection Committee Cultural Committee National Defence Committee Committee on Agriculture and Forestry Committee on Human Rights Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives Court of Auditors Sports Committee Tourism Committee Environment Committee Information Committee Transport Committee Public Prosecutor's Committee Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee Science Committee In addition, a committee size of 21 members and replacement members shall be set unanimously for these committees, which shall be distributed among the political groups as follows: ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members SPÖ per 6 members and replacement members FPÖ per 6 members and replacement members NEOS per 1 member and replacement member List of mushrooms per 1 member and replacement member The clubs shall make the members or substitute members of the Committee responsible for them known, which shall be valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[00:55:27]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-12-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00005_d8e18739	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 31/A(E) to 52/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 0.56 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
