ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7136	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I'll open the 175. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 171 and 172. Meeting of 29. ==References====External links== Meeting of 30 March 1990 ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Gessl-Ranftl, Krist, Mag. Gisela Worm, Fichtinger, Mag. Dr. Karl, Ing. Schellenbacher, Mag. Korun and Dr. Mückstein. [[09:06:57]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7173	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mr Magistrate. Nikolaus Alm waived his mandate and Ms. Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer is appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will make their fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula by writing, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Buchmayr, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7212	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7233	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7249	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst and wish them all the best. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7273	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Johann Georg Schelling is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:08:57]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7316	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Eliteunis for all through fair funding’ First of all, Mrs Gamon is speaking. I would like to draw your attention to this: Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7344	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators, also those who watch from the gallery today! Being caught in the average case – if the tragedy of the Austrian higher education sector were a novel, he would probably bear that name. Yes, science and research in Austria always produce exceptional talents and exceptions, but this is certainly not due to the good conditions, but despite the adverse circumstances, despite the catastrophic conditions. Yes, the universities have not been saved in many other areas in recent years. This is a positive development I consider to be inconceivable cynically and exclusively for the colouring of the underlying problem of structural and long-term sub-financing of the entire university sector. The budgets stagnate, the number of students increases, the conditions are getting worse and worse, the drop-out ratio remains alarmingly high. Mr Mitterlehner, you said two years ago: “The offer and the infrastructure at our universities are good and this is also largely positive by the students.” – This is not just a bold claim, that is simply not correct. Go a few meters further, to the University of Vienna, go to the jurisdiction and ask the students there as it is, at lectures, to sit on the ground as it is to have to sit on the ground during exams, as it is if you do not find a diploma professor. – I don’t think they feel the conditions for studying in a mass subject in Austria are positive. Saving and staying inactive in education, saving universities and not reforming anything is the future robbery of the next generation. Why is that so in Austria? – That must certainly be this neoliberal spasm, the NEOS always say, we have to save everywhere and so on. [[Call to the Greens: Is that a confession?]] Perhaps it is the economicisation of education, which sometimes the Greens and the SPÖ are talking about. - Isn't it? Let's see how this makes our neoliberal neighbor in the West, Switzerland! – In Austria we have 300,000 students and spend €3.8 billion on public funds for the public higher education sector. Switzerland has around 150,000 students, but it spends more than €7 billion on public funds, on tax money for public universities – half as many students, twice as much public funds compared to Austria, and the ice-cold neoliberalism with low taxes and even corporations in Switzerland, where the ice-cold neoliberalism everywhere is feared! [[Call to the FPÖ: They also have a different budget!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But not as many debts as we do!]] What does Switzerland do differently? – Switzerland sets other priorities: They have a slender state so that they can also collect a heavy educational budget. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, given the dramatic situation, it is nice that the Minister of Science has announced the favor of the hour, which has taken advantage of our current hour and yesterday a reform of higher education funding towards a place of study funding; I am very pleased. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The word Studienplatzfinanz now sounds a bit bumpy to some viewers, so I would like to take the opportunity to explain what it is all about. In line with the FH's financing system, the universities are now to receive not only a flat-rate amount with which they would not be able to deal, but money per study place. That costs more, but it also brings more quality. However, funding for a study place works only if we can also limit access to these funded courses, otherwise the classification is completely ad absurd. It can only be hoped that this announcement will not be followed, and finally the evaluation of the distribution of competence between Unis and FHs has been strongly announced, but we do not yet know where this process stands; it would also be good if we use the opportunity to update today. The additional €1.3 billion for the next three years is also very nice, but this is far from what the uniqueo originally predicted a few years ago, what it would need; and we are also looking forward to the financing proposal, after all, it is difficult to raise € 25 million in addition to the study aid – € 1.3 billion is now suddenly Peanuts. If it's so simple, we're very happy about it. We believe in you, Minister. But the question that we have to ask ourselves today is a political one: According to yesterday's press release, the whole thing has to be negotiated with the comrades of the SPÖ, so this is a nice proposal, but if I look at the track record of the last months, it would surprise me if one could still agree on something so reasonable in this unfortunate coalition on the last few meters – but we believe in you, Mr. Minister. What are we talking about now, NEOS? – We want a clear commitment from this Republic to education, science and research. We want a clear budgetary priority. At the moment, we are not the Republic of the Thoughters and Discoverers, we are the Republic of bureaucracy, the waste of money and the budgetary treatment of the past – see Pensionsloch!, see Hypo! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] We have the money here in the House sitting relatively loose in the pocket when it comes to populist clientele policy, such as the pension century. When we talk about future issues, the social partners block, the countries block – see, for example, the topic of education! –, blocks ideology, the SPÖ very often on university topics. There is also a lack of the will to spend money. Young people in education, the future of our country, are politically often simply no matter. We young people don't have a lobby here; for all the other groups there always seems to be a lobby when it comes to quickly loosening a lot of money. We NEOS believe that we need the fit state to finally be able to deal properly with the issue of education and higher education. We need a radical extension of childcare to a quality elementary education, because there begins the social selection, not at universities. We want better compulsory schools that can live autonomy and diversity of education, so that there is no longer any 15-year-olds who can't read meaningfully, to which all opportunities are taken into account. We want universities and colleges that offer world-class education and training so that our country becomes fit for digitization and fit for the knowledge society. - That's what we want! How do you get there? – We had three very central proposals. This is, on the one hand, a place of study that deserves this name. To this end, we will have to take significantly more money in order to enable universities to introduce, at their own discretion, meaningful, study-related access restrictions. At the moment, students in mass subjects are fighting with overcrowded hearing halls, lack of seminar places, lack of diploma thesis staff. The high drop-out ratio is also an injustice of the current system. The chance of falling out of a system that is completely overburdened is considerably higher for students with socially weaker backgrounds than for others. If you have less family financial retention, the probability of having spent many semesters at the university is also increasing and at the end even without graduation. This is a waste of time, and this is a robbery of the future for these young people, and it is also a damage to the people of Europe that we are causing, with the few money we put into the system. We also believe that there is a need for a large-scale extension of the scholarship system, which requires study aid. It's clear to us: No one who can be prevented from studying. Studying is nothing for those who simply have the luck of having rich parents; Study should be for those who have the will to accomplish, who also have a desire for knowledge. One would think that the increasing number of students also increases the budget for the study aid. – Wrongly thought, in the last ten years it has stagnated, the allocation rates have fallen from 25 percent to 17 percent. Where did the SPÖ hide at this time? Wasn't it worth you to fight for these students? Why has the study aid not been increased at this time? – This is also the difference to NEOS: We do not believe that these young people have less qualifications than others. We believe that they must be given the means to study. 45 years of open university access since Kreisky have also meant 45 years of social selection at universities. That's a condition you have to end! We believe that this system has just failed. We need a new access, which also makes sure that everyone who has talents can study at the university. Finally, we want to provide universities with a financial space for them to continue to work on their own profile. The system of post-graduate fees works in such a way that you first receive a non-profit credit and the repayment only starts when you stand in your professional life and exceed a certain income limit. No one should be prevented from studying, no one should feel this as an impossible burden. In our opinion, study fees are also fair and fair. Studying is still a privilege, because if you are studying, you have something to do with it all your life; if you don't have to make a contribution if preparation courses cost several thousand euros for a master's exam, it's simply unbearable and an unfair state – so much for it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I assume that the speakers will say of the Greens and the SPÖ: You just want to know that only the rich can study! – One discredits oneself with such statements, which I believe is an intellectual insult. What you want is that anyone who can get through through the STEOP, who can strangle through overcrowded seminars through Knock-out tests, with the 50 percent risk of breaking it down in advance, can complete an under-average study. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] We want everyone who has the will to have a good degree and who also gets a good degree. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7446	Mr Mitterlehner spoke in favour of an introductory opinion. Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7467	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated visitors! First of all, I would like to thank the NEOS for discussing this issue today in the current hour. It is an absolutely important issue; it is, of course, a complex issue – you have mentioned it yourself. Of course, it is also related to the high school elections, which will take place soon, because it is about the future of our youth, the future of our society. I suppose the title should provoke: I don't know if You have really dealt with the formulation “Eliteuniversity for All through Fair Studyplace Financing”. - If so, I'll tell you: Elite itself is called demarcation from the mass. But if you don't want to do this in this way now, you have to deal with the following: Where are there elite universities, and how is the system there? That's where Cambridge, Harvard, Oxford, comes in. If you look at the classification there, you realize that about 7 000 people are applying in Harvard and 6 percent are taken out of it; and if you look at the funding there, you can see that the study there costs $50,000 a year. We are probably not talking about this, but we are talking about a growing system that has developed since 1365. And I'll give you the right one. This system must be tested as to whether it is really practical for the future. It is not true that we have not given any money into this system; it is a budget-financed system. We decided in 2008 that we would not remove any study contributions, so it is budget-financed. In recent years, we have given more than other areas in the context of budget funding for universities; we stand at around €10 billion – of course always with regard to the service agreement period, which is three years. So: Yes, we have gained momentum; we have also acquired basic research and implementation towards applied research in terms of rankings there and there in terms of evaluation; and I think we have made the most progress in relation to basic research and implementation in the direction of applied research. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will have a F&E quota of 3.14 percent in 2017 according to the current forecasts. This means that we are no longer – we were – second in Europe, but have continued to pick up momentum. So that no one can misunderstand me – they like to be misunderstanded – that this would be proof of inactionless self-satisfaction: That's not it! Of course, we have to look at ourselves – we have air up –: What are the problems? Very briefly to the problems: We mostly have the system of funding for study places at European universities. This system brings about a qualitative approach to care relations – which are also exemplary internationally – and, of course, to these good care relationships of about 1 : 40, low drop-out ratios – about 20 percent on the international average. Now you have to look at yourself: What do you have in Austria? – There is free access to higher education in Austria; 60 percent of all students study in 20 out of 160 subjects, and in some areas there is a drop-out quota of up to 70 percent, for example in the field of law. If you take it this way, you can of course represent the thesis: We have free university access!, but on the other hand, it is an illusion, actually even a burden on those who really study when they say: Free access to higher education also ensures quality and those who have applied for and enrolled really a degree. – This is not guaranteed! Why is it not guaranteed? – Yes, because on the one hand, some are studying because it is free. They do a language course or something else because they need it; they try to develop social contacts. [[Abg. New builder: If the professor does not hold the lecture!]] That's all legitimate. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Or go to work!]] – They also work in other countries. It is, I believe, quite common in other countries, support by means of study aid. On the other hand, this is compatible; the master's degree according to Bologna process is even based on this constellation. – Yes, that’s it! If, on the other hand, I would like to have access at all, of course I need a lot of money. Do we have a lot of money now? - I don't think so. That's right, Mrs Gamon: Yeah, we might have a too much inflated state. The changes and reforms are difficult because everyone insists on their areas. This is the task of the coalition – we know that – but also of the countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] If you look at the subject and notice that you have a drop-out quota of some 70 percent and a concentration on a few subjects, you ask yourself the following question: What is the further consequence? – The consequence is that in these subjects, which focusses on everything in which many students are, of course, remains research; teaching dominates and blocks the capacities, and research remains. Therefore, if you see this problem, you have to counter it. Counter-taxes mean that you have to make and initiate a different system of study funding, study place financing. That means, on the one hand, that these package budgets, these global budgets, as they now exist – there is also a part of the indicator referenced: what are the accounts, and how can they be financed?This is a kind of reward system, which must be converted into a three-part system in the final effect. One part is infrastructure, the other part is teaching, and the third part is research. We are of course relatively quick at the theses: If the number of beginners is not the right component, then you have to take the final figures and say – if you notice that those in the labour market are essentially staying on the labour market – that: This will probably be a guideline for how to align the offer in the future. One could now go salopp – and the idea was there – and look at the final figures, then hit the drop-out ratio of 20 percent from other countries, and then one would probably have a pretty accurate indicative value. We did not do this with the support of Rector Engl of the University of Vienna – he is well known as a mathematician – but we have refined it. We are not only based on graduation rates, but also on initial numbers and, of course, the number of those who actually remain after the first semesters – that is a much refined access. We then found that if you want to have these care relationships, you have to do two things – the international comparison is 1:40 –: More professors and assistants need to be put into the area concerned, so that this can be improved – with an additional €500 million – and if you put more money into the system, you have to make an access regulation on the other hand, where the care relationship is not true, where the relation is not 1 : 40 but 1: 70, so where there is a problem throughout the country. Access schemes mainly cover three areas: Of a total of 160 studies, these are the legal sciences, the education sciences and the foreign languages. If someone tells me about the high school that there will be fewer offers for the students then I say: That's true for the three areas! But if you take the number of beginners: Last year there were some 35 000 beginners, about 10 percent of whom will be affected. Of course, these 10 percent, which are affected by the total number, can study in other fields, they can also study in higher education, or they will come up with the idea of perhaps making them into a different kind of training because the above areas are not suitable for them. There you can also give universities – and they want to do so – the opportunity to access a higher degree in other areas, even more consciously. How do you do that? – Well, by not being enough to say that you have studied, you have Matura, you register there, but by introducing a kind of motivation letter, a self-test and similar as a mandatory component. What does this accomplish? – These are not Knock-out tests, but this is a more conscious choice of study. A more conscious choice of study will lead to a higher degree rate according to the experience of other countries. What else do you have, of course? – In the case of better care relationships, you have a different approach between student, professor and assistant and whoever works there – that is, more quality. Thirdly, of course, one also has more planning security at the individual universities. One has these three areas which I have mentioned: on the one hand, teaching, then research and on the other the infrastructure. Don't tell us that everyone has to sit on the steps! We have given so much money from the BIG into the system – by chance it also falls into my department – that we can say: The universities – look at the economic union or elsewhere! – are actually on the road in a contemporary way. We have invested very, very much to offer the students opportunities of today for the future. Now the question is: How are we going now? Is it true that the coalition partner gets this as a surprise, as an Easter package? - No, not at all! The subject has been discussed for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It was my knowledge before the term of office of my colleague, daughterly theme, that we actually want the system, so it also knows the coalition partner. It is also not a half-approach or half-thinked approach, but a fully thought-out approach. The examples are as follows: When I take out of the series of 160 subjects exactly space sciences and then it says: The Mitterlehner has said that all those who can't study Jus should study it!, then maybe that's a way to present it in this way, but it's not the desired option. The desired option are much more colleges, other fields, other disciplines. Believe me, other countries too have a different and better mixage and quite the competitiveness and income opportunities for all! That's why I'm saying: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need to change the system by 2019 now because universities want planning security and also need to have it for the next service agreement period. I tell you, it is a huge chance for Austria because we will ensure more quality in all areas – research, teaching. And believe me, the university conference has supported this. There is a decision that you want exactly this procedure; and we will talk about details – there and there. It is clear, of course, that the university, which has the worst degree rates, is concerned about how budget allocation will be in the future, so we will look at this, we will find a way to have suitable transition opportunities. I say to all those who come now and say that we do not need €500 million, but €1.5 billion: Nice, but in the final effect it must be usable. There are calls for tenders, you need professor's offices, you need offices, you need resources. All this must be developed gradually and cannot be done in one step. That is why I say, in summary, to keep up with the speaking time: I really thank Mrs Gamon and all those who have worked and supported in this area very much for having this current hour today. I consider some argumentative parts and approaches to be very supportive and on the other hand supportive to us. I should like to ask the other part of the plenary to really see the overall argument: It is a huge opportunity for Austria, a necessity for Austria and will overall increase the competitiveness of the country and the future capacity of students in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7543	We are now going into the debate. From now on, the business time is 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7568	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss issues of university policy, higher education policy here today in the plenary session, which we have in the House recently too rarely. We have undertaken to get a few things on the way before the summer; Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned it. On the one hand, we have undertaken to present a common concept for a new form of university funding by summer. The concept you presented yesterday has not surprised us – that is right – and we are talking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It is a good basis for negotiation, but it is also a basis for negotiation, where we still have a few weeks to work together and to be successful. A positive assessment is that you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, have managed to set up significantly more funds for the Austrian universities. 1.3 billion € plus for the next few years will result in a large sum. I would like to congratulate you on the success of this. What we also note positively is that this concept does not include comprehensive access restrictions, that there is also a great deal of emphasis on – you have done so – giving support in the run-up to the selection of studies. They have contrasted that there is less drop-out where there are access restrictions. This can be seen in this way, but it can also be seen in such a way that the restrictions on access, the admission procedures, yes to the drop-out, and that is a completely logical consequence. We will now analyse the concept you presented. For the formulas you have presented, we will get calculations to see what that means in concrete numbers for the individual studies. We will always bear in mind that it is not only about dry figures, but also that we will decide and determine what opportunities young people will be able to live in the coming years, what opportunities to get a corresponding education at universities. This is the essential point we need to do, to improve and shape the opportunities of life, the opportunities for young people to be educated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, the goal set out in the Coalition Agreement applies to us, namely that we also want to insist on the fact that there are no fewer students in Austria when it comes to redesigning university funding. We'll look at the distribution, we'll look at the alternatives you need when you say people should, if they don't get access to their wish study, see if they can find an offer at the colleges. We will have to increase the places at the technical universities accordingly, so that there are the appropriate alternatives. What we lacked in the concept that you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, presented yesterday – and that was what we had agreed on – are the accompanying measures to improve social integration at universities. We will still reflect together on how we can put in place appropriate measures. This is the next point, the next one that we want to put to the plenary very soon, namely to improve the funding of studies. In this respect, we have set ourselves the goal of making a decision here in the National Council before the summer. Although in recent years we have repeatedly brought something into the way – nothing was it, but together we have always taken smaller steps on this path, which was good and right – but honestly, one has to say that now a bigger step is necessary. That's what we both see. The reasons for this are that the level of grants has not been adjusted to inflation over the last 18 years. the basis of assessment has not been adapted either. This leads to the fact that fewer and fewer students receive an ever smaller support. This is something we urgently need to do. Everything has become more expensive, housing has become more expensive, food has become more expensive; and if study funding has not been adapted to inflation for so long, then people feel that of course, then they have to work more. This is also reflected in the figures: Three-quarters of the students have to work to be able to afford to study – and then we stand back and say that the duration of the study is extended. So I think there are many important and good reasons for us here to link a good package that leads to more students having the right to study funding – as before – and that there is an increase that is also noticeable. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Mr Minister, if you have managed to put €1.3 billion on the legs for a new financing model, we will also be able to make a better study funding.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7646	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Daughters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7667	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Eliteunis for All’, this is a paradox, Mrs Gamon, which has a contradiction in itself; the Minister has already pointed out this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I just can't do that. Elite comes from the Latin “elder”, which is called “select”; and “select” always means that I cannot include all. We also know that the elites of the world are the opposite of what you are designing here; yet your approach is kind to me. I have long chosen a different formulation, which is not a paradox, but only an oxymoron, and I say: wide tip. That is what one should strive for in Austria. In football there is the hanging tip, so there must also be the wide top. This is also a slight contradiction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do I want to say? – Our efforts must be to have as good universities as possible across the country as possible, i.e. not a sharp profile of a top union, but a lot of good universities in Austria, from which – and this is already happening – also lead to excellence in research. We also see this throughout Austria. For example, we have a lot of great ERC guarantees that prove this very, very nice. That must be our goal, and we have been working towards this goal for a long time. That's why it's not true if you say that the university budgets are stagnating, the opposite is the case: For many years, there has been an increase of around €1 billion in each service agreement period, well above the inflation rate and also significantly above the now flattening increase in students. The financial situation at the university is thus constantly getting better. Of course, it always depends on which relations you produce. When you get the numbers of students, we do not look so good towards Switzerland or also Bayern. If, on the other hand, one produces the relation to GDP which one must make as a political leader, because that is what the state can simply afford, then we look great, there are We, the public funding of universities, are the best in the world. I just have to emphasize that very clearly. It looks much worse when it comes to private financing, so I am pleased to have your new incentive to consider tuition fees as well. – Yes, you can do that, you should do that, that would be a private source of funding. Today, however, it is about financing the universities differently and re-financing them, in the form of part-financing through study places; this is something we have long been working on. At that time I was still in the uniko, and the Bureau of the Uniko has already agreed in 2010 with the then head of government to initiate this funding. It took time, but now the breakthrough is reached. Federal Chancellor Kern has now become aware of what I am very pleased to do. Now we can and will do it. We will achieve that, at last, the conditions we are in in some highly sought-after subjects – some say: Mass subjects – have an end that people no longer have to go around a study site at midnight, that they no longer have to sit on the ground, that they no longer have a very, very unfavourable care, which is also a very high burden for teachers. If a professor has to correct 200 seminary work if he has to correct thousands of exams if he has to take care of many diplomas and dissertations, in personal discussions, then it is simply not possible. It is also an unreasonable condition for teachers, if one does not create opportunities to achieve a regulated and tolerable care relationship between existing teachers and students. This is exactly what you can achieve with the funding of the study ground. Of course, this also requires a certain form of access arrangements. That doesn't mean you lock people out, but that means very well you're directing and controlling people. Unfortunately, the choice of studies is still very often not considered. I can tell you an anecdote from Innsbruck University: We suddenly had a strong increase in geology students and could not explain this to us at first. Only when we came to the point that in the first year of study in geology much is done together with geography, do suddenly students who actually wanted to study geography know that there is also the field of geology, and switch to geology, have we understood this. This shows that it still has a lot of information, as it has a lot to do with considering the choice of studies. All of this is improved by gentle access arrangements, as we want to introduce them. This will bring about a better distribution of students, which will bring a much better study environment for students and teachers. And finally, this is also a social act, because the unacceptable study conditions that we have here and there due to these poor care relationships are particularly damaging to the socially weaker students, because the...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7734	Mr deputies, you must now come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7749	The final sentence is already in progress, namely: This hurts them because they do not have the long breath to endure these unreasonable study conditions. That's why: Let's take it and pull it through!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7781	That was difficult to recognize, Mr. Deputies. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I call Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7812	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! About the paradox that an elite is supposed to be possible for all, has already been said a lot today. The broad point for all, as you have said, Mr Denke, perhaps comes a little closer to this. I allow myself to take advantage of the opportunity to look back a little bit. A few decades ago, 40 years ago, perhaps even 50 years ago, we decided to go the way in education policy – at that time the Firnberg model – of free access for all, we want to make the studies financially and socially accessible. – I too am a profiter of this system. And this model, of course, does not cause them to be elites and were. It is still true that these are mass universities, but they have produced all the top forces of today. The whole has been done according to concrete rules, the taxpayer pays more or less the tuition fees and the state – in this case the ministry – has the supervision and much more. As has been said, the Republic and society chose at the time, since the elite is not to force, but the mass university, so that a widest audience can study. Today, too, we are facing the debate on how the system will work in the future. Should there be a total reconstruction of the system, just to more elite formation, or do we remain faithful to this path, which we can also see as an Austrian path with which we have experience? Unfortunately, in the past there has gone a lot wrong, because we are always – once, once there – turning on small wheels; and so it is today. For us, high-quality tertiary education is in principle linked to free access to higher education. In this context, your announcement yesterday is also interesting, Minister, that you want to set up a new model of study place funding. In principle, it is positive that universities should get €1.35 billion more, but in reality they hide new entrance barriers, even if you don't call them that way. The fact and the fact that the model has not been voted on to the last detail with your coalition partner, as you yourself admit, is a fear that it is just a policy of announcement, as we used to be. Mr Mitterlehner, I hope that you will not play short in this discipline as a serious competitor of your party colleague Sebastian Kurzhoch. If not, we liberals would like to be ready for discussion here, but a change to the funding required by us as well must by no means endanger free access to higher education across the back door. The Matura has access to a study in Austria for Austrians. Study entrance barriers are the wrong way and can be an Ultima Ratio at best. However, if quotas are to be eliminated, there is, of course, a need for fair compensation. For non-Austrian citizens from the EU, therefore, cost-effective compensation payments should finally be negotiated by the European Union, and we will discuss this at the next item on the agenda. I expect you to take the initiative, too, and finally the €600 million that the European Union owes to us more or less. would ask for it. For third-country nationals, this is clear, the full amount should be charged. Of course, we have also been thinking about financing, Mr Minister, and I am just saying: Provision of a base amount for higher education infrastructure in accordance with Austrian higher education plan, a flat-rate budget for research, which would be about 50 percent gained through state-owned third-party funds, an incentive system for the acquisition of third-party funds through tax relief. I've already said it, third-country nationals and also stroll students have to ask for a checkout. And there must finally be the removal of the ban on funding for private universities, because in Austria, too, a private university system has established itself, which today determines elite training in our country. In my view, there are two classic examples here, as a pioneer at Paracelsus University and the DPU in Krems, the Danube Private University, which, apart from the state system, is a real elite of our young, but of course, this elite must also be paid dearly. I ask you, Mrs Kuntzl – and this is to be questioned – whether this should be the future of the Austrian higher education system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7879	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7900	Madam President. Estimated Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Science! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! Yes, it was certainly in the 1970s a milestone, free access to higher education and, as political priority, in fact the goal of enabling the highest standard of education for all regardless of the origin, regardless of the education of parents. – I have also benefited from this, as many here in the hall, I think. My father was a farmer and a hostess, and at the time it was about 6,000 schilling a month, 2,000 of which I prepared myself, 2,000 children's allowance, and 2,000 so to speak, the family. Free access to universities has certainly contributed very, very much to the training of women and to the equalisation of women in the education system. I do not want to participate in these games, Eliteuni: yes or no, but I think we should understand the objective of a public education system that opens up to all educational opportunities as possible, from kindergarten to folk school, from high school to universities. And there's a lot to do there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Accessibility: In the field of kindergarten pedagogy, it is still so half-way, but since the parents also have a lot to do with it, the framework conditions do not fit in with Weitem yet, but in the folk school is already going on, already in the folk school some rehelp for their children must organize to the famous witness in the 4. Class folk school in such a way that admission to the desired school – which is still usually a gymnasium – is possible. If the child contains a This is already impossible in de facto. And then the reading begins. And then these children who have managed to do the central matura, to exist mathematics at the central matura, for which the parents have invested a lot, with which the parents have learned – there is the famous sentence: We have now made the Central Matura, namely “we” as de facto the half family – in front of the universities, and at many universities de facto in front of closed doors. We now have access restrictions – in medicine anyway – and a wide range of restrictions – whether this is in architecture, spatial planning, biology, nutrition sciences, computer science at TU Vienna, in a total of seven business studies – all of which would de facto be desired, because you simply cannot deny certain domino effects – in medicine it is so. We also need to discuss these proficiency tests, because they are incredibly expensive, are also extremely resource-intensive for those concerned, because money has to be taken into control again, partly more than € 1,000 for preparation, and then this is a fitness that doesn't say anything about whether you're actually suitable for this profession – for that you do this training first. For these limitations and if you are talking about course funding, which is under the rule, fewer places, and not, more resources, you do not have us as allies. If student funding is more money and free access – in fact, more resources; we have heard more announcements, that is why I am a little careful – then you have our support, then we are quite open on this issue. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] However, we are still discussing the social conditions, because this is still the key to whether young people can actually perceive their educational opportunities or not. Two thirds of students work, usually 20 hours, which is a part-time job. And I wonder how you can do that, if you have perhaps already established a family, or if you have to block these 20 hours – for example, if you work in a motorway stop where gastronomy works – because then you have no phases at all in which you can recover. These are people who have a double to triple load. And just the socially weak, as you have rightly said, Mr Denke, then do not have the long breath to really endure. Let us look at the social conditions: While in 2009 10 students received two more tuition grants, ten students now only have a single person. The students have stress all around. Someone who goes from Lower Austria or Graz or from Carinthia to study in Vienna and looks for an apartment, encounters galloping rental costs, the difficulties that the brokers have to cancel him two to three month rents and he must have a few thousand euros de facto on the side. These are the framework conditions that still produce social inequality in our education system. It is not enough to consider new financing models for the university, but we need to look at the social situation of students and their families as a whole. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is still the case that in the end, as far as the real graduates are concerned, those who come from nearby families or from families who have better social or financial resources. I would like us to talk less about models, but more about the perspective of how people really are in this system, and to put it at pain points and really allow us to reach this great goal, regardless of the origin, regardless of the family, regardless of the social background, the highest possible educational opportunity, to discuss less about elites, but about the real problems of life of young people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7991	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8012	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, dear citizens! I would like to express our views on: [[Abg. Wooker: Oh you!]] How do we organize universities in such a way that all people can develop their talents well and satisfy their needs? “Sweet academic children”, this was called up to our young, liberal NEOS, our students of JUNOS, by representatives of the red-red-green ÖH University Vienna, and this, of course, sheds light on this discussion. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Call the ÖVP: But now it's enough!]] [[Abg. Mr Rädler: Madam President!]] [[Further call-ins]] On the occasion of a rally they were actually received with the call “Sweet Academic Children”...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8092	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz, you know that we have agreed that even if we quote something, we do not use expressions that violate the dignity of the house, words that do not conform to our language usage. I would therefore ask you to be moderate in terms of expression. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8107	Madam President, yes, it has been accepted, but these are, of course, events that have happened in Austria, and I believe that I am allowed to report on them as representatives of the people. If representatives of a red-red-green body call on such a thing to other young people, I think that is quite in addition, and I would also like to address that, especially because of that, Eva Glavischnig, because it is not true. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Perfect!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do you tell me? I didn't put that under control!]] I'm a mining boy, I grew up as such, my father was a small commercial employee, and I'm telling you one thing: If I didn't get a scholarship, I probably wouldn't have been able to study. I wouldn't have had the chance. I'm just asking you to look closely. You have correctly recognized, Eliteunis for all, this is a small provocation that we have set today as a title so that we can get into the discussion about it. I would like to get into the debate, I would like to focus on the fact that, for example, the award rate for scholarships has fallen by 8 percent in the last ten years. That also means, Minister, that you take 8 percent of young people's chances! If these are people like me, with the same framework conditions I had, then you probably take this 8 percent of young people the chance and the freedom to study; and I think that is not good in a country where there is a lot of wealth and wealth on and on. I want young people to be free to follow their talents, whether as apprentices or students. I do not agree that in some federal states – Niki Scherak and I have just discussed it – you pay for kindergarten, for three or four years, when you send them to kindergarten. I don't think it's okay that graduates of a teaching must pay the master's exam from their own pocket, but at the same time there's free university access, at least at the universities, not at the colleges. However, we do not discuss this differently. We know that there is a better social mix at the colleges where there is little study fees than at the universities. [[Abg. Maurer: This is related to regionality, professional support!]] That's not... – I can’t quote it now, or I’ll get shriek again. It is true that we have a better social mix at the colleges, even if the Greens do not want to recognise it. Of course, that has different reasons, that's clear to me. I think, however, that it is also necessary to show appreciation for the fact that the technical colleges are obviously offering very lifelong training opportunities, and I believe that we should further expand the vocational colleges. Similarly, we suggest NEOS that we introduce so-called post-graduate tuition fees. There is a similar model in Australia and other countries. Lowered means that the student, who pays students not out of his own pocket at the time of study, will be the state's preeminent. If this citizen, this citizen, comes across a certain income – we can discuss the corridor, first level of progression, average income in Austria – then he will pay back more than ten, 20, 30 years in proportion. The study fees will not be that high, we do not want American conditions. But we want a structure of the university landscape, we want young people not to sit on the ground. We should not be so wrong that they will then be tested out, with Knock-out tests some 50 percent of a vintage will be skinned out. That's not fair, we have to leave with it! [[Abg. Kassinger:... a recording exam!]] That is why we should introduce a study place funding. We already had a consensus in 2010 at the University Dialogue on the occasion of “Uni is burning”. At that time, for example, the ÖH under your leadership, under your leadership, Mr Maurer, has gone out. All experts, whether left or right, have said that makes sense. For ideological reasons, you didn't want this and got out of the university dialogue. That's blockade.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8200	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8221	Madam President. Minister! Dear High House! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for discussing this issue together at the current hour. I think we all agree that education and training are among the most important tools we have in a society, in a country. It is, of course, a particular requirement for policy to create the best conditions. I would very much like to confirm some previous speakers: It is time to develop and implement a fair system of funding for study places. This is a problem that is not new. We have been seeing and discussing this problem for some time now. It is really high time to introduce a classification into higher education funding in order to guarantee students high-quality top-level studies. “Eliteunis for All” – that will not be entirely possible. But I think that quality should definitely be set before quantity should be a sign of the future. In international comparison we are certainly better off for a time, the World University Ranking 2016–2017 ranks the best Austrian university, the University of Vienna, in Europe comparison currently 74th and in worldwide comparison only 161th place. So you see, we have a clear need for action to promote quality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The legislator has tried to solve the problem of overloaded courses and the related question of irregular free access to universities by introducing the study entry and orientation phase. Unfortunately, this attempt was suboptimal and, as you can see, not targeting either. This is also confirmed by the Science Council, which criticises in a report that the Austrian higher education and science system makes clear to the non-existent political consensus, namely that the introduction of study contributions is prevented. Positively, of course, there is a lot of investment, at present there are about 1.7 percent of GDP flowing into higher education funding. Unfortunately, the output is not quite where it belongs. Of course, it must also be welcomed that the Minister has announced or promised to increase the university budget by €1.35 billion to €11 billion for the period 2019 to 2021. It is important, however, that the money comes where it is really needed. When you talk to the students, you still hear: You sit on the steps, you are treated like a number, you often have to take yourself a lot of time to get all the information. – This also shows serious shortcomings in the direction of care. Let me take one example: The use of lectures is partly a very big challenge for students. At the Economic Union, for example, this is via a login link on the Internet, which will be activated. If you're lucky, you're on the computer at the right time to log in, and if you're not lucky, you have to wait a semester. This is a waste of time, which is, of course, a big handicap for many students. I would like to address a very brief question to the Minister for Foreign Students at Austrian universities. The answer to this question was very, very interesting. I would like to call you the figures contained therein: There are currently in Austria's universities in about 86 000 foreign students, a little more. That's good, but if you see that in about 12,000 graduates, not even a year in Austria, I have to say: That's a shame, that's Austrian tax money. If we finance knowledge with our money, then this knowledge should actually remain in Austria. That would be something to look at. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8275	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8299	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear students! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also great that we have this debate here and now, because we simply have very rare opportunity to talk about the social situation of students, about how students really do. It is also about the situation of young people before studying, after completing the school. That's where you're wondering: What do I really want to do, what am I suitable for, what actually fits me? There is still a lack of information and therefore a lack of knowledge of what options you have. In this direction, something will happen; that's good, but it needs even more intensive support. The next question is: How can I actually afford to study, to train? Often you move out from home for the first time, and we know the situation that there are not necessarily cheap WG rooms, and also the studio homes, which should actually be affordable, are unfortunately not always affordable. If you're lucky, you'll find a quiet room in a studio home. Before you study, you may need to do another preparation course to create the approval exam, which costs a little bit. Then you start your studies, complete the initial and orientation phase that is going on. After a short period of time, you might be able to get on with it: It's not mine, or it's right. If you have established yourself in your studies, you have also received space in seminars and in courses, the financial component is again to bear: Can I afford the books, the documents and much more? Mrs Kuntzl has already mentioned this: For this reason, simply many students have to work and study in parallel. Some apply for study aid, but only some, in the event of a corresponding low parental income. These are not inventions that I present today, but realities of the students that are clearly reflected in the current student social survey. I think that's exactly where we have to put, and it must be possible not to introduce more barriers. It must be our aim to get the students under the arms as best as possible with all the conditions and not to put any further stones in their way. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I think you too are following this path. I also see you as a strong alliance partner. I hope we're going in this direction and I'm calling on you to go there. I think it is very positive that you want to invest €1.3 billion or a little more in the universities. Why, then, since 1999 do we discuss adapting the study aid to inflation? There's no relationship at all. Furthermore, we all know – and this has already been mentioned – that it is becoming fewer and fewer students who can obtain study aid. But they would urgently need them. This is not because the aid would not be granted to them, it is simply the framework. There is therefore a need for a genuine reform with real increases and new framework conditions, which are socially sound and fairer. The increase in study aid announced by you, Minister, is a good step. 25 million € but just not enough. That says, as I said, in no relation to the money you want to raise for the whole system for which Unis. That's not what we're doing. but this is quite easy for the students, they deserve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I understand politics as creating framework conditions in order to make it possible for all those who really need it to be supportive of the poor and above all young people to have equal and fair access to educational institutions, universities, colleges, educational universities. We have set up a lot of common ground, but at last we need something comprehensive. We just need – not surprisingly – that I say this at this point – affordable Studiwonheme through the reintroduction of Studiheim funding. Let us at least adjust the study aid to inflation, which is really the minimum! We therefore need more than €25 million. Let us create a fair and sound system of aid! The students just don't want to wait any longer, and they can't wait any longer. Let us take the student representatives to the table during negotiations, and let us not just attend them by media coverage! Mr Vice-Chancellor, I very much hope for your support, we implement a fair uniform system for students, and we improve the social situation of young people! In conclusion: Dear students, use your voice and choose your OH representative! In my opinion, the VSSTÖ is a very hot tip when it comes to your interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8372	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8393	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The basic question raised today is that of the framework conditions for students, for teachers, for researchers at Austrian universities. I also think it is good that we are discussing this today. The date of this discussion is, of course, not by chance, because the ÖH elections are at the door. What does it take to ensure good conditions for a successful study, successful start-up in study and high-level academic training? – What has been presented here by NEOS is not far away from what the ÖVP and above all Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner have been doing in government work for months. The topic of funding, which has been discussed more often today, ranges from structural infrastructure to care conditions, equipment in laboratories to research funds. In principle, I am right that this is the central issue when we talk about framework conditions. The need for changes in funding – away from the package budget to a study place finance tailored to the situation – is clear, and I am pleased that this, I believe, is also widely supported in the meantime. The work on this is already running as part of the process Zukunft Hochschule. Vice chancellor Mitterlehner has already mentioned it: Yesterday, a model was presented, which was developed with the University Conference and is now used as a basis for discussion. However, the fact that we change the system from today to tomorrow – and I am also right for honourable Members Maurer, who wrote it in an issue – is unrealistic. This is neither meaningful nor possible. It Needs It is also the time to discuss this model and the appropriate preparation time to be able to change the system. On the topic of access schemes: I am of the opinion that fair and meaningful access schemes can create added value, on the one hand, from universities, but also from the point of view of student funding, when it comes to planning, and on the other hand, of course, when it comes to the quality of the study. On the other hand, I believe it makes sense to introduce a certain commitment for students to examine the content of studying themselves accordingly, whether it is the right choice. We are talking about 18-year-olds and older people, i.e. men and women, who make a conscious decision about their course of training and career, and there are a lot of assistance: There is the Studiversum platform, which was presented here last year, the ÖH itself organizes Schnuppertage and Introduction Days, and much more is offered to be able to really comprehensively deal with the choice of studies. I think it is also justified to present its suitability, its motivation, whether it be through self assessment, a letter of motivation, an examination or a professional discussion. In my opinion, this is neither a restriction nor a shock, but it is really about giving everyone the same opportunity to study. It is about equal opportunities, but it is also legitimate to ask for qualifications and motivation. But that we also take account of the need to ensure equal opportunities is reflected in this legislative period. Many measures have been taken in connection with the financial situation of older students and of single parents and on income borders in order to ensure equal opportunities in order to prevent cancellations of studies and ensure the success of studies. We have also discussed further measures, including in the Committee. The National Strategy on the Social Dimension in Higher Education, for example, deals with care conditions for children of students at universities. So these are not only topics that concern the ministry, but also the universities themselves. It is about creating offers to be able to study vocationally in order to improve the opportunities for this, and of course it is also about creating meaningful offers regarding permeability to study – word teaching, master exam. The next stage will, of course, be the increase in study aid. The €25 million that has been addressed does not come from about, but is a proposal from the University Conference, which has been taken up. Mrs Kuntzl, I certainly hope that we will come to a common solution before the summer, because it is our wish that there be this increase as soon as possible from the winter semester. I cannot see Mr Strolz, the “Saustall” mentioned in the press conference. Especially in recent months, the process of Zukunft Hochschule has been very constructive. Today, there is therefore also a model on the subject of student funding. This is a basis that we can discuss, on which we can build preparations for improving the study situation, but also the further development of the system. I hope that They will all participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8452	The next item is the report by Mr D. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8475	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Much has already been said about the misunderstanding title “Eliteunis for All. ” The term "Eliteunis" is associated with Harvard, Stanford, American elite universities, which finance about a third of study contributions, a third of the acquisition of third-party funds and a third of donations, especially from graduates and measles. We have already heard today that there is a 94 percent pre-studies drop-out quota, Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already said that. Only 6 percent find admission, the study costs 50 000 €. This cannot be the model for Austria, and that is not what we want to talk about today. Today we are talking about the Austrian public universities. I'm even ready to say: This is a success model of the last decades, based on the basics that we do not want to change, but rather on which we want to maintain, in particular, the basis of free access to higher education and the basis that there is no or, at the occasion, only very moderate tuition fees. We note: This is, as it were, the state's performance. This is financed by the budget or by the Austrian taxpayers. This is an investment by Austrian taxpayers into our children and our young people in the form of a good education, which costs nothing that does not put the students into expense, which does not force students to take up loans that they will have to pay out for their lives. That's a good thing! I come around a lot in the world and notice: Free access to higher education is a good thing, and publicly funded universities are increasingly rare worldwide, and we should continue to do so. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] .. However, we have a wide range of views as to who the needs of these public institutions are. – It is clear to us liberals: The needs are the Austrian children and young people to be able to study. This does not mean that foreign students are not warmly welcome, especially at the university, but that also means: These students are supposed to make a cost-refund for their studies. It is not to be seen that the Austrian taxpayer finances the studies of foreign students. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Karlsböck mentioned it earlier: We are talking about several hundred million euros, and that is why we are calling for the most intensive efforts at European level to ensure that such agreements are made which provide for a cost-refund. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, we liberals also believe that study in Austria must be carried out in accordance with the so-called country of origin principle, i.e.: It is only possible to study here in Austria if the conditions in the home country are met. We know that this is not the case with German medical students in particular: That is what we believe should be re-adapted. In January of this year, the Free Parliament Club had a clause on higher education policy, and I would like to take a brief look at the fundamental findings on our part. As I said, We are without reservation for the success model of free access to higher education without restrictions through any admission examinations or other. We are without prejudice to the fact that the Matura's success model is still valid as an adequate condition for higher education and is not devalued. We want to go the opposite way and upgrade the Matura again. There is much to do in the so-called secondary sector. I am referring only to these many, many, model experiments, which cost a lot of money, only mess up the entire system of the secondary school and ultimately pull down the level. We want to counter this: The matura is supposed to be upgraded. In addition to public universities, we still have accompanying institutions, private universities, which have existed for some time. These are quite a useful addition, but they should be subject to the strict quality requirements and tests of AQ Austria. – They do, too, that's all right. There you can also ask for tuition fees, but not at public universities. In addition, the success model of specialist universities, which has been available in Austria since 1994, is even more evident than planned, because the success model of professional universities, especially in the sense of lifelong learning, can now offer much better and more efficient opportunities than public universities. On the financing issue, Mr Karlsböck has already stated that we have a five-stage financing model. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] As I said, Public universities are an important asset, we can be proud that the state is taking over the funding. We liberals want to have free access to higher education. Perhaps there is still a mood swing at the SPÖ, because it is rather disappointing that the SPÖ is now apparently going off from the line it has maintained for decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8554	I assume you are at the end of the sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8570	Perhaps the SPÖ will return to the old line of free access to higher education without tuition fees. This is, in any case, the liberal position.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8597	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8618	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I too begin with the title of this current hour, namely “Eliteunis for All”, but I would like to point out a different aspect than my previous speakers. The NEOS write “Eliteunis for All”, but of course “all” are not all meant, but NEOS want access restrictions, they want to exclude people from their studies. But that cannot be the definition of “all”. – This is, however, classical neoliberal politics. “All” does not mean all, but “all” are for NEOS only those who make it. For NEOS, “all” are always those who are not poor, “all” are those who create the entrance exams that can afford to pay tuition fees that can afford to pay preparation courses and so on. In addition to other abuses, we have heard today that it is an “intellectual insult” if one also points to this aspect of NEOS neoliberal policy. – The title of this present hour is perhaps rather an intellectual insult, because no one of us has understood what he is supposed to mean, and it has not been executed either. Let us, however, focus on: What are we talking about? – The title also contains the word “student funding, ” but little has been said about it. We are also currently having a debate on how universities should be financed in the future with regard to the presentation of the model yesterday by the Minister. In principle, I would like to say something positive: The basic idea of orientationalising the funding of places of study, which is needed in the fields of teaching, research and infrastructure, is good. We currently have a very transparent, historically grown system, which is not quite clear why the global budgets come into being in the way and it makes sense to consider financing themselves within these different areas of need. What, though, has been meant by the funding of study places in recent weeks and months – or since the term was excavated as an idea –? – In fact, this does not mean the financing of places of study, but primarily the reduction of places of study. Mr Mitterlehner, you said yesterday in your presentation – apologies, yesterday – that the original model with 20 percent graduates was too radical and would have meant a blow. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Yesterday!]] – With this model, the balding means 40 percent of Jus study places you want to delete. That is totally unacceptable! This is still a reduction around a very large part of students who are beaten to the door of the university after the matura. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This does not correspond to an approach to improving higher education in Austria, but it is limited, and it is only given to a group of electorate. We have the second lowest in Austria – the second lowest! – Academics in the OECD. They try to do this with the fact that with a HBLA or HTL degree you are already considered academic. Unfortunately, this does not change the fact that we depend on the international comparison of study degrees and even on the number of students in the back. You say we have a big problem with the drop-out. – Yes, that’s right, where the actual drop-out is only half as big as you say, Mr Mitterlehner. But if you look at why people stop studying, then you see that the main reason for them to slip into employment is because they have to work to finance a study. 60 percent of all students work on average 20 hours, and they do so because they have to because the scholarships are too low and not enough. The few who receive scholarships also have to work side by side because they are not enough to make a study. What would be the task? – Of course, the €1.3 billion is good and an urgently necessary step. It is good that this money should come, but of course this cannot be linked to allowing fewer students to do so. If it is actually your goal to increase the number of graduates, then you will not achieve this by letting fewer people into the university, but you must actually be careful that those who start studying can also successfully end it. So we increase the graduate rate and not by sorting out those who love us enough and saying to everyone else: You can't, you're not one of the chosen ones that we want to be able to study in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8673	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8694	Madam President. Federal Minister! What is first and foremost noted in this debate is the lack of creativity and imagination. If we are talking about "Eliteunis for All", this means, of course, that we want to adapt the Austrian universities to other universities on the European average, so that we finally have meaningful and even better universities than we do now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We've already heard: There is a lot of good work being done at the universities, although we have such poor funding. We want better funding. We want more private resources at universities, too, so that we can create an elite for everyone. [[Abg. Maurer: Who are “all”?]] The fact that this is obviously not being understood is a problem. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is also noted that parties can develop further and take other positions. The FPÖ was the party that introduced the study fees at the time; the tuition fees were introduced under Schwarz-Blau. [[Abg. Strache: We abolished them again!]] – You also abolished her, that's right. I say yes: One can develop and change one's position. The problem with the tuition fees at the time was primarily that the funds did not come to the universities, but were sent to the general budget somewhere; therefore, these tuition fees were not good either. We want the tuition fees to land directly at the universities when they are relocated, in order to enable higher quality at the universities. [[Abg. Maurer: This is stupid!]] – Mrs Maurer thinks that this is stupid. Again, this unholy alliance of national ignorance between FPÖ and Greens is noticed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am a lawyer, and it is quite sad that I have to say that, but it is known that there is a federal president who was once party chairman of the Greens, who has always spoken for tuition fees, for good reasons; and one can always hear people say in front of the SPÖ: Of course, study fees are something that, in particular, serves social justice, because it is not understandable why parents in Austria still have to pay for kindergartens. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – That’s exactly what I wanted to do! Why do people who take a master's exam have to pay something for it? Mrs Maurer says there is nothing to pay for. – That’s right, that’s the typical banking idea. There's a banknote, I'm going there, I'm going, I'm going to press it, and I'm gonna see that the money's running out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, this will not be financeable permanently. I am of course also of the opinion that children's gardens should not be paid so much, there are trends in this direction anyway; but I believe that there is a need to put in place where people have the opportunity to contribute a part, and that is precisely when you take post-graduate tuition fees. [[Abg. Strache: Did you notice that we are the highest tax country?]] – Mr Klubobmann Strache! I am referring to where the problem lies, in particular, in higher education policy and why we are unnecessarily throwing money out there. [[Abg. We're a top tax country!]] - We're a top tax country, that's perfectly right. I want those who can afford it to make a contribution after they have completed their studies and if they have a corresponding income. I feel that this is a social justice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I do not think it social justice that all the people in Austria who can afford it are still fully financed by the studies. I expect those who can afford it if they have a corresponding income to make a contribution. This is social justice, the other is not. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you said that the coalition partner already knows about your model. – I support Your model is very strong. The problem is that it sounds more like a dangerous threat to me when the ÖVP suggests something and says it already knows the coalition partner. I remember how it was last time you negotiated big things with the coalition partner. I remember that since the trade reform, we have had a more regulated trade, and the trade of the huffsmith is now also regulated. We know what the flexibility of working time is: This is a topic which you have outsourced to the social partners. It may be possible to outsource the question of funding for study places to the social partners and see if there is something going on there. The problem is: Your model is good, but we have been discussing it for more than ten years. Now it is nice that you have in turn proposed something new and a good model, from which Mrs. Collaborine Himmelbauer says it takes some time to implement it. – Of course it takes time to implement this! But it is as if we only had the problem since yesterday, as if we had all just come up with it yesterday: Oh, my God, we need a study place funding in Austria! – I know the ÖVP has been calling for this for a long time. However, nothing has gone on, and this is, of course, the coalition partner, who usually has no interest in furthering something. A major problem – and I am in the high tax field – is why we cannot provide Austrian universities with sufficient financial resources. This is, of course, the Austrian donor and banker federalism. This leads to every head of state, if he wants to have any prestige project, being able to wish for something, and since the latest it is in fashion to wish for himself universities or faculties. We know the example of the Faculty of Medicine in Upper Austria. At that time, the now non-mehr country captain Pühringer decided that he needed another prestige project. The vice chancellor has participated, and by the way, the Greens have also participated in what is always fascinating, because if we discuss a comprehensive Austrian university planning, it would be useful that not unnecessary medical faculties are planted somewhere, and that also with the donor federalism! – Well, Sigi, these are the greens in the federal states! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We now have the same discussion in Tyrol. There may now also be an additional medical university, a private university, and we all know that we do not need it because of the lack of doctors. If you look at the corresponding studies, you know that we have a medical defect because the training requirements after the university are bad. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: What we need is a sensible funding of universities. It also includes the fact that a person with a better income makes his contribution and does not have an ideological flawed thinking and that there is still 20 years of stagnation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8853	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8874	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I am also referring to the title of this current hour: ‘Eliteunis for all’. – The fact that there is a contradiction has already been found. Let us be glad that we have actually had free access to study for all since 1970! There are also examples here in the room. We have employees who prove that in Austria each and every one of us has the opportunity to successfully study and get a job when the work, the goal in front of the eyes and also the performance are right. I think the latter is the next issue we need to address. I refer to the medical studies because Mr. Scherak just spoke about the Faculty of Medicine in Linz: This is a model example of the political setting of a monument, which, however, has not changed at all in terms of the subject matter, because the places are now, of course, missing in Innsbruck and Graz. These are cosmetic actions as they provide the Federal Government in the last three periods. But this does not move, and this standstill is felt everywhere. If out of ten medical students are already four German graduates, we have to think about it now, and I may join my colleague, Refuserstorfer: If the graduates then leave our country after studying, we must either ask for a cost replacement – as Mr. Dr. Kassinger mentioned – or require the graduates to practise for at least five years in our country in order to benefit from their knowledge of what they have acquired with Austrian tax money at the universities, including the Austrian taxpayers and taxpayers. We're always talking about medical undersupply, we're always talking about that we're so old in the field of agricultural doctors and hospitals. – We will need to benefit from this knowledge, which has been taught here, or if graduates are not willing to do so because they have a better offer in their home country or in another country. – I think that would be fair. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think one thing is very essential – because it was presented in this way, what a burden it is and how many people have to have part-time jobs and virtues in order to get through in life: It is the best that there is at all when someone works in addition to his studies also practically when someone acquires practical knowledge in a 20-hour job and brings in this. I think this is just the ideal case for us to get away from this theoretical view, which often ends in an expertry and which no longer understands a practitioner. That is why you should not forget what is done with the Matura next to the universities. I know a lot of skilled people who continue to learn. I am thinking, for example, of the company STIWA, and I could name some of the above Austrian companies in which skilled workers continue training with an evening matura and become executives in these companies or are very much in demand in other sectors and areas, because they expand their practical know-how with the Matura and then become very well-founded, important, valued, valuable employees. I think we have to get away from these purely theoretical demands, which we have heard in some debates, and much more about practical feasibility, namely the cooperation of universities with companies, with SMEs, with industry, so that already in the joint development during the course of the study – it has fallen to 1970 – there is also a practical perspective in each case and then there are graduates who are really useful. I have to say at this point: Thank you and all of you! – Austria is also known abroad for having qualified graduates who have acquired a certain reputation and reputation at the best universities internationally. I think we shouldn't be all bad, but there's a need for action. Finally, before we think about new costs, I can say: It's the money that's missing. There is a high tax burden due to the lack of reforms, the many electoral promises that have not been implemented. We just saw it: Bavaria is the ninth place in the international comparison, Austria at 109. In the case of the regions wishing to set up farms, namely because of the high cost of wages and because of the great bureaucracy. It does not help if we are constantly talking about red tape, it does not help if we are constantly talking about the need to reduce the additional wage costs if, in fact, the exact opposite happens. That's why: There is a need for action by the government, and then we would have financial scope for the necessary measures, such as in the field of study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8942	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8963	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Current hour with the theme “Eliteunis for All through Fair Course Financing”. Mr Strolz, I think it is a bit provocative already, what you have referred to yourself, but it is right, that is out of question. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] Yesterday, I took a close look at the issue of Mr Vice-Chancellor: New model for funding for study places, Minister of Science Reinhold Mitterlehner strives for a “system change of university funding” from 2019 onwards. Its new model "sees an increase in the university budget of 1.35 billion. Euro to EUR 11 billion. Euro [...] and criteria for further access restrictions’. Then I've looked at this very carefully, that's what it says: ‘The additional 1.35 billion. Euro is made up of around 840 million. Euro for a kind of index-related further development of the current resources” – Mr Minister – I would like to know exactly what this means – “as well as 510 million for the extra personnel resources associated with the system changeover [...].” You, Mr. Minister, have mentioned to guarantee financing from three pots in the future – that is all right – of infrastructure, teaching and research; but completely new, Mr. Strolz, this discussion is not as far as the elites are concerned. The position of universities is also very interesting. I looked at the elite universities, and I asked: Do you rather support the European or the Austrian version? Generally speaking, the EU Commission's communication is much less respected by the universities than the announcement of an elite at national level. The state funding, which the Minister has referred to, binds the universities very much to the nation state. The different commitment lies in the need for more competition at national level and at European level. The title of the current hour is ‘Eliteunis for all through fair study place funding’. – What does “for all” mean? Mr Strolz, I asked that earlier. This is, of course, a provocative matter, but that we must continue to develop there is no question, because the Matura must continue to be strengthened – I believe Mr Kassager has mentioned this – because it is the key to success. If we don't upgrade the Matura, we're going to suffer shipwreck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9000	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9024	Ladies and gentlemen! Love all – to speak in the tone of reason! I do not want to leave a few things that have been addressed here in space. Point one: Mr Kassager, you said that there was a clause of the liberals that you would have dealt with free access to higher education and that free access to higher education in Austria should be maintained on the basis of Matura, if I understood you correctly. I would recommend: Look at the state of the weather! The state of affairs is that you do not have free access to higher education. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is the problem!]] Do you know how many percent of the studies are already regulated? [[Abg. Kassinger: This is your policy! We don't want them!]] You'll probably sing well in the bathtub, but probably you won't be able to study music anyway. The same applies to the sports sector. There are simply certain restrictions on access for the study of sports. [[Abg. Kassinger: Go!]] I don't know if you've noticed, this also applies to medical studies and, of course, to every university. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But because you have introduced this!]] – There are certain technical challenges and requirements at each university. To give it to you for your next club class: There are more than 50 percent access restrictions – now! – for certain technical reasons and not for justamental reasons. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please go!]] Second point: Mr. Steinbichler – a small task for him, since he is now also a Uniexpert – has claimed: Out of ten medical students, six come from Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Mr Collegue, only given as an account: We have a quota arrangement with the EU, which looks like this: 75 percent of all study places are reserved for Austrians, 20 percent candidates from the EU, 5 percent from third countries. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] If you take 10 percent now, it's after Adam giant two, two out of ten. So your representation, if you say four, is a hundred percent exaggeration. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's wrong!]] This is a hundred percent exaggeration. Maybe you should consider whether this is the right approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: I did not mention, because I presented the system, the study grants and the social classification, which is of course important, to the extent. I'm telling you something to do now, to think: We have discussed this in Austria and we have also decided to abolish study contributions. Study contributions amounted to almost €200 million in 2008. The counter-model on the study contributions is an increase in the funding of scholarships. Why? - Because it's socially fair. Of course, not every study contribution can be made, and of course I could make a part available to those whom I really want to help. – This is the one point: The state provides all around €200 million – let's take this scale – with the system. One could do it socially with study contributions. Second point: There is also the corresponding family allowance for students. Compare this with other countries! There is no such thing at this age. We in Austria have this up to 24 years, many say, that is still too little. Further: Of course, we have also increased the study grants otherwise, for older students, for students with family connections and other needs, even in the past. This has already been changed in recent years under my competence. Thirdly, I say to you: The approach with the €25 million didn't come up with me. This is a proposal from the University Conference – also involving high school. There you have also looked at the basics of the system, as at all. If we have more – wonderful! Next approach point: The question has been raised in the room as to how high schooling is involved. Is it involved? Does she know the system? – Of course, high school students know the system of funding for study places and are involved in all discussions in the context of the university conference. It is logical, if I do something on the level of Parliament, on the level of government, then I deal with the coalition partner. To make it easier, one would have to have an absolute majority, but in that case it might not be beneficial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Yes, do your calculations, then let's keep talking! In summary, ladies and gentlemen, we must say: I think it was a valuable, a further discussion. Solution She's from the thesis: Free access for everyone! Come on. You there, to have internationally acceptable opportunities for us to move forward and open up opportunities for students to live! – In this sense, I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9163	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I welcome the Chancellor and the members of the Federal Government. [[10:49:47]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9188	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:50:02]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9424	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the popular desire for ‘Gegen TTIP / CETA’ (1608 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The first reading is envisaged for tomorrow's meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9451	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 7 and 8 to 11 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9476	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates: Agenda item 1 – EU declarations – shall not be included in the day-block time. A day-blocking period of 5.5 ‘Vienna hours’ for agenda items 2 to 14 was also agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 74, FPÖ 69, Green 58, NEOS and STRONACH each 30 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club within 15 minutes of this Decision. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are facing the renovation of this House, it is about to come. We agreed at the Presidential Conference that we are today taking advantage of the opportunity to record a 360 degree picture of the meeting room for documentation purposes, so I would ask to build the camera now. I am briefly interrupting the sitting for this purpose. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9537	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[10:53:15]] 1. Point EU Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to § 74b para. (b) Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9570	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. These declarations should not exceed a total of 25 minutes. A debate will then be held within the meaning of § 74b of the Rules of Procedure. In this sense, Mr President, I give you the floor for your introductory opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9598	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear visitors! This is an unusual situation, but I see this as a great strategic advantage, because I just want to consider: Anyone who is here inextricably turning to the neighbor will be documented for eternity. [[Abg. Kickl: (pointing to the government bank) Above all!]] - Maybe we can do it. This applies to all, Mr Kickl, to all, unquestionably. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Today's debate is an important debate. I am glad that we can lead them in plenary and would like to thank me very much for this opportunity. As you know, we will be meeting in Brussels on Saturday as a summit of Heads of State or Government. The issue on which this is concerned is the negotiation strategy for Brexit. This is a unique process, certainly a process which cannot at least be described as joyful as Europeans. This is certainly not a day of joy. It is true, however, that we have experienced in the analysis of this Brexit that we are faced with major questions and major challenges and also have answers to them. These answers have to do with the fact that we have experienced around the referendum in Great Britain that a majority of people there had doubts about whether the European Union is actually able to improve its lives – and a majority in the UK have chosen a different way. If you look at the causes of this development – you probably still have the analyses as good as I am – you have to say quite clearly, there was great frustration: great frustration about the phenomenon of migration, great frustration, but above all also about the downfall fears that are reality in many regions of Great Britain, but also in other European countries; people on our continent have the feeling that this self-evidentness, that it will one day be better for children than their parents, is broken and no longer a situation. If you look at this in detail again, then you have to say that we will not be able to resolve these doubts alone by taking part in celebration hours in communication, but we will only be able to resolve them if we actually manage to address, handle and offer solutions to the problems that lie behind us. It is a reality in Europe that we have experienced in recent years that there has been loss of income in the middle class, loss of real income. We have experienced that more people than ever work precariously in Europe, are working full-time and can still not live decently with this income. And we know that while there is a clear trend towards improvement, there is still youth unemployment of up to 40 percent and more in some European countries. So there are real problems that we have to approach. What I have described to you is not the result of a union congress and the analysis there – let us say so – but that is what the International Monetary Fund has put on our table last week. The problem is – we have experienced this several times; as a representative of Austria in the Board of Heads of State and Government, we have experienced this with special intensity – that we are working today with mechanisms that do not enable us to resolve these problems very quickly and consistently and to find solutions to them. In this Europe, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a consensus that brings together different, completely dispersal interests and offers solutions. This is what we must finally do, namely to formulate concrete solutions to specific problems. That is why, as part of the Rome Declaration on the celebrations of 60 years of Roman Treaties, we have decided to initiate a reform process of the European Union. We are now at an interesting point, which has strongly influenced the internal debate in Austria over the last few weeks and months, namely that we had a discussion which, in my opinion, was very much on the surface of the question: Who is for Europe? Who is against Europe? – The point is that, as a small country, we have the greatest interest in resolving the doubts about Europe, which is a matter of course. We are an open economy. One can argue about whether we are the country that has benefited most or perhaps the second or third most European unification, but the effects for Austria are at least completely undisputed and enormous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is precisely because this is the case and we see what the problematic developments are, but we need to have a differentiated discussion today. It is no longer just a question of whether you are for or against Europe, but it is much more urgent about the question: What Europe do we want? In which Europe do we want to shape our future? I can remind you: Europe, as it is today, has not fallen like manna from heaven, but it is the result of very concrete political decisions. Against this background, it is a special concern for me to clear up this extremely shortened debate on wood-cut headings again and again, because I personally have seen with the utmost contemplation that there has sometimes been one or the other out of your circle who has accused the Federal Government of an anti-European attitude. I can tell you that's, of course, wrong. That is the opposite of what we stand for. It is our responsibility, and we want to perceive it in the appropriate consciousness. If we have experienced these days that in the first election in France a candidate who has a pro-European attitude has won, I think it makes sense to devote himself to and listen to this discussion, for even a Emmanuel Macron has said, in all European consciousness and The spirit is already about the need to set up a reform process now. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] From my point of view, the analysis of Europe – perhaps Mr Vice-Chancellor because of other nuances – shows that it has to be said quite clearly that over the last decades deregulation, market opening and increased competitiveness have been a priority. On the one hand, I consider this to be a development which is certainly a major issue, but on the other hand it is not enough to inspire people for Europe. I can remind you of Jacques Delors, who once meant: ‘No one falls in love with a single market.’ Our task must be to turn Europe into a project of people and their real interests and not simply to see it as a project in which profit and loss accounts and balance sheets are involved. Today the European Commission will present its proposal on the social dimension of Europe. There will be a discussion process, and we will then meet in Gothenburg in autumn to advance the subject further, but the idea behind this concept – and one must be connected to the Commission – is indeed the question: How do we actually achieve the European Union's original promise, namely prosperity for the great majority, yes, for all, and security? In the case of Brexit – I would like to stress this again – our big problem is that too many people simply did not believe in the European Union's being able to do so. It is therefore important that we start a reform process, that we have a discussion in the best knowledge that we are Europeans and benefit from it, and not just talk about headlines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to explain this to you on the basis of a number of examples, which have been excellent for the common policy of us, which we are sitting here on the Government Bank, and which I am concerned about, perhaps also a little further: If we are discussing Europe today in Austria, it is pro-European to make a massive commitment to combating unemployment. [[Abg. Kickl: Tell me someone who doesn't confess!]] Anyone who ignores unemployment in Europe does not make a positive contribution to Europe, but does a project of de-olidarisation, which ultimately attacks our society, but also the project of European integration. We, the Federal Government, have said: Yes, this is one of our biggest problems, we need very concrete measures here! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What exactly now?]] Austria is seriously affected, so we have introduced the employment bonus. Then we had a big discussion about it: Can we do that? Is that even possible? Is that perhaps anti-European? – But the truth is: If you look at that in light and analyze it soberly, then you have to say that this is natural. We have already introduced such instruments in the labour market policy in a number of ways: The integration premiums, company start-up premiums or removal premiums we have are working exactly according to the same principle in order to re-establish and integrate unemployed people into the labour market. Neither does Austria alone, the Germans or the French have the same thing, and a number of other countries do the same. It's about us saying: European responsibility means solving very specific problems, and unemployment is certainly our biggest challenge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is pro-European to consistently engage in the fight against wage and social dumping. If we listen to the discussions about this and look at what is happening, then we know which schindluder is driven with it, then we know that it is not a matter of course that the same pay is paid in the same place, and then we know that it is also practical today that companies that are founded abroad and send employees to Austria do not comply with the rules of the collective agreements. This is not just a problem of trade unions, it is a problem that affects all of us, because it means that taxes are not paid, that unemployment arises, and that our small and medium-sized enterprises are losing jobs. That is why it is in the best European sense to say that we must put it off, because we do not imagine European solidarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why don't you?]] It is unfortunate that eleven European countries are so hard to support the European Commission's sentencing directive. To have a pro-European attitude means to address problems and not simply to take note of them, otherwise the interests of both Europeans and Austrians would finally come under the wheels. It is pro-European when we are devoting ourselves to the fight against tax avoidance. [[Abg. Kogler: But that's clear!]] It is a delegitimisation process, a de-olidarization if we assume that large international corporations such as Google, Apple and Co – you all know the names as well as I – do not pay taxes in many European countries and that this will only be possible because at least four European countries open door and door to them, to circumvent their tax obligations in Europe and to postpone their profits in tax havens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, above all the President of the Commission!]] [[Call FPÖ and Greens:Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is the problem at the top!]] So this comment is left to you, Mr Kogler, but the crucial point in history is yes: [[Abg. Kickl: There's something about it, you should replicate it soon!]] I believe that we must conduct these discussions in the interest of Europe – these and many more discussions – because – once again – this is the result of political decisions, but political decisions are changeable, and we have to change them in the interests of the Europeans, the Austrians and the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are going to discuss Brexit on Saturday, it will be very intense about the further negotiating line, and I personally believe that this will be a discussion that is probably even more important than we estimate it here or there. I am convinced that the next two years in which this negotiation process is to be conducted will give us the opportunity to solve problems, but of course this Brexit means not only an opportunity, but also the risk of increasing existing problems. If you look at the guidelines with which we want to go in the negotiations with the United Kingdom, you recognize some of the principles that I think are important in order to ultimately ensure a contribution to a better Europe. First of all, we are talking about European unity. This will be tested because it is clear that it will of course be the British strategy to split Europe and make bilateral agreements with individual countries. For us, it will be important – a must for European solidarity – for no one to break the fact that Europe is convinced that there is no single negotiations. That is why it is also quite clear that the negotiating mandate lies with the Commission; it will be observed by former Commissioner Barnier. The second point is: If we look at this process, then our consideration is that we want to regulate the withdrawal with the British first. This is important, therefore, because it is primarily about the rights of citizens and citizens of other EU countries who work in the UK, and about British citizens working in Europe. We want to have a clear regime for these people affected and therefore suggest that someone who has lived in the UK for five years – or vice versa – can permanently acquire the rights he has been granted. But it is not only about the people, the Europeans concerned who live in the UK, but of course it is also very much about how we will regulate the financial agreements. This is likely to be one of the toughest points because Britain has taken on a number of commitments that go far into the future. If Britain now withdraws from these commitments, of course, huge costs will arise, which must be discussed together. A first estimate of the EU Commission amounts to about €60 billion. So this is about large amounts, and we know how difficult this debate will be. You remember the Brexit discussions: In the UK, the Brexit proponents have promised, it will be cheaper and much more money will be available to the British. It is likely that this is an invoice that will not go up for the British anyway. Then, of course, it is about the question of new cooperations. Many important points will have to be discussed and decided for us. First of all, it is about the European Union's basic self-understanding, because if someone breaks out of the EU, it is clear that whatever the Treaties, one cannot claim the same rights as the EU's members. This is about whether we take ourselves seriously, and that means that if someone is a member of a club, he has to find conditions different from those that are not a member of this club. In any case, we will not be able to allow a rosin pick against this background. This also means, for us, that we must ensure that these new agreements with the United Kingdom do not lead to a tax competition, as a result of which corporate tax rates are driven further down and can ultimately result in prosperity losses across Europe. It is also about the fact that, when we reach a common trade agreement with the United Kingdom, we find fair framework conditions that there must be no hidden aid, no environmental dumping, no social dumping and no other unfair competitive advantages. Then there is another point that Austrians are of course particularly important to us in the Brexit story, and one can probably include this in the category of opportunities: There are also agencies in Great Britain who are taking on European tasks, which we would like to see in Austria, just as there are companies in Great Britain who are now seeking the way for Europe, for reasons of approval and regulation, to which we are currently working intensively in the Federal Government. We must be aware that the question, when we have all these points worked out – and this will be a lengthy process, which will take at least two years – is not just how we regulate bilateral relations between the European Union and the UK, but also that this will have to lead to significant consequences and to very serious discussions within the EU. You know that Britain is the second largest net payer in the European Union. It is likely that the amount will be around €14 billion in 2020, if the customs revenue is still added. Our common attitude is that there must not be a higher burden on the net payers, including Austria. How difficult it will be to deal with this task can be seen from the fact that the overall burden of the EU, for administration, is only €8 billion. [[Abg. Street: “Only”!]] [[Abg. Lugar: After that is little!]] [[Abg. Kogler: If you count the administrative burden of the Member States, it is twice as much!]] We are talking about the Commission, the Council and Parliament together, including staff costs. If we represent the thesis that the savings must look such that there is no additional burden, then that means, of course, that we need to break our head not only over the calculator, but that it will be about fundamental reform questions. This will also focus on what the EU Commission and the European project will focus on in the future – from our point of view, of course, there are primarily research, investment and common security policy. I would like to conclude and perhaps add a fundamental comment – I think that is one of the most important lessons you can learn from Brexit –: In the UK, it was discussed that one wants to regain state sovereignty. I think the next two years will demonstrate that through this exercise, by leaving the European Union, the exact opposite will happen. The British will surely lose weight in this international, global game of forces, and they will be able to enforce their interests much harder than in the joint association with Europe. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true at all! We'll talk then when it's ready! Let's wait now!]] If that is the case, then that means all the more to us that our goal must be to compensate for the loss of Great Britain and to return to a European project, which clearly means strengthening the European perspectives in this international balancing of global forces. And then that also means to us that we can not only observe the celebration hours, but also that we must make ourselves specific to the day-to-day work. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Haven't you done this so far?]] It will not be enough if we move to summits, but it will mean that we are looking for solutions in each policy area. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So far it hasn't been?]] That is what is happening, and we do so in the best European agreement on the part of the Federal Government, as you have seen with regard to the employment bonus, but also in the case of family aid, in which we have come to know in terms of indexing our European commitments. On the other hand, there must be no bans on discussion on important future issues, with leave. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Austria and the Austrians certainly have the greatest interest in a powerful European Union, and our common task must be to shape this process in the next few years in the sense of this powerful vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9905	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner came next to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9929	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The Brexit vote in the United Kingdom last year, in particular the result, and in particular the 29th. In my opinion, on March 50 of the EU Treaty and the letter received from the Commission were sad days for both sides, both for the European Union and for the United Kingdom. Why? . Because I believe it is not just about Britain, as Theresa May, the English Prime Minister, saying, leaving the EU alone, but not leaving Europe – that may be geographically right, of course, one remains in Europe, one does not change its borders – but, of course, it is about leaving an idea to leave a community that for 60 years has been trying to solve together in peace and solidarity problems that are cross-national. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What exactly?]] If someone is no longer involved, this is, of course, a very difficult matter for both sides. Let me give you an example from the family area, which does not seem so inappropriate when you look at the situation: In the final effect, separation is always painful, for both sides, but it is important – even in the private sector – to clarify the conditions accordingly, for otherwise there will only be rubies and disputes. The second point, which has already been shifted in time, is that everyone – the European Union on the one hand and the United Kingdom on the other – will probably deal with what has been done wrong in their own field, and above all the question of where, as far as the rules of the game are concerned, there is a need to improve the attitude in terms of implementation. Now we may be less interested in the UK, but it is as far as enlargement of the EU, especially the change of the EU, the improvement of cooperation is concerned, in fact, the central task of which we want to deal with for the future; the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it. If all of this happens in both areas, then, as sometimes in patchwork families, it may even be possible to achieve fruitful and effective cooperation on the part of the United Kingdom and the EU and its Member States, as well as not to harm each other. But that's what I'm doing when I'm serious about the starting point: With the United Kingdom, the second largest economy is leaving the EU. The second strongest economy – you have to break down on your tongue in a negative sense! –: This means as much as the 20 smallest nations of the European Union as the size of economic power – of the currently 28 Member States. So something very serious and serious is happening, and this, of course, has corresponding consequences. All the more important in this situation is the EU's way of doing things together in a reasonable way according to rules of play, which will be set at the Council Special Meeting next weekend and will be observed. That sounds good. I think there is no question about the timetable: ==References====External links== June begins, and the first phase will be that of separation. This includes a division of mutual commitments in a range of 60 to 80 billion €. There will have to be a clarification of who pays what, and, of course, the UK's services will have to be defined in this area. The second point in this context, which will be interesting for us from the systematics, from which philosophy comes, is as follows: If the United Kingdom succeeds in splitting us into individual interests, we cannot help. The more we act together and in general in solidarity, the better the result will be, of course. The second phase will certainly consist of talking about what form a future cooperation can have. The famous Rosin Picking – Cherry Picking – has been addressed more often. It is logical, of course, that this is not the case, since if the United Kingdom may have more advantages and more mobility than it has ever had as a member, it will also make others aqueous. This might then also have an effect on other examples. In this context, therefore, the time factor is important, for a very simple reason: 2019 are the next EU elections. It would be strange if the United Kingdom might then have to vote or even nominate candidates for the Commission or other bodies because the negotiations are not completed. That's why I assume it's good to have this time pressure. On the other hand, with the former Commissioner Barnier, there is a diplomat who knows the situation and the experience and, I believe, the necessary consensus that is needed and necessary in this regard. Now we come to the very point – we have discussed the subject of science before – which is very important to us Austrians, because the United Kingdom is “only” – under quotation marks – our eighth most important trading partner, but when it comes to the structure, when it comes to the competitiveness of the country, we have the most intensive relations with the United Kingdom. As an example, I only mention Horizon 2020: In Germany – this is our most important partner when it comes to coordinating joint projects – the United Kingdom is our second most important coordination partner. For all projects submitted via Horizon 2020, experts from the UK have the lead in the final impact in the field of implementation. On the one hand, it is necessary to continue this, on the other hand, there may be a chance – even as regards institutions – for us to take over the leadership of projects there and there in a consortium. A second point in this context is Erasmus. We currently have 600 students studying under Erasmus+ in the United Kingdom. I have the hope that it will be similar to Switzerland, for example. It has had the problem of their participation in Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 as a result of the popular initiative “Gegen Mass Emigration”. In the final effect we have found there the possibility of participation as a partner country, but also of co-financing. I believe that this is the crucial claim that we must have in this context: to maintain cooperation with the United Kingdom and to be interested in expanding it there and there. Here I am, because I have spoken of finance and projects, at the point already mentioned: What happens to net payments? – As we have just said, we will not need a calculator to determine this, but probably a quantum calculator, with the possibility or requirement that it is listening safe. What is to be said on this issue? – I would definitely not hold discussions, which are already finding that we will certainly pay more. It must be the reverse: first the negotiations, then the results, always accompanied by the principle of reducing costs and increasing efficiency. In the final effect, this means in the clear text that if we have €8 billion in administrative costs, we are talking about €14 billion in total. It is also necessary to put in place a new proposal in terms of efficiency and performance, otherwise someone will have to take account of it, and that is mostly the net payers. From my point of view, therefore, an undocumented, unfounded, procedure which is not accompanied by the project of savings and efficiency gains must be rejected. We can only talk in the interest of taxpayers – with the aim that Austria does not pay higher contributions to address this clearly – if there is clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We now have this situation, and I do not want to highlight it, even from the guidelines published yesterday. The Federal Chancellor has raised a number of points in this regard, which I can only stress, particularly with regard to the legal certainty of those who work in the United Kingdom – they are mainly affected by 800 000 Poland, but also others. Of course, these and a few other points need to be clarified. I spoke before about the separation and its consequences. Now I come to the crucial factor: As a European Union, what do we learn from the process with the United Kingdom? What are we doing? – I find a trend that is very positive all around, in the words of Macron and others. Everyone has recognized that it is not a question of the need for a Europe, but that we need a better Europe; a better and less regulated Europe. That sounds simple, but it's difficult. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I also come to what has already been said: What is it really about the young people and the citizens? To the promise of prosperity? For jobs? – Yes, to a certain extent: yes. It is also about peacekeeping. I let a large Austrian project Revue happen – the Federal Chancellor and I were there: 200 years after the Congress of Vienna, Franz Vrannitzky and Franz Fischler led a discussion event on the one hand, in which young people were involved in what the EU should do in the future and which projects should be priority. Those of you who believe that peacekeeping was the most important because of the stories of fathers and grandfathers who were influenced by the war will experience disappointment. Nor was social compensation or job security the most important thing for young people, but digitisation was the priority issue. Digitalisation sounds uneasy and technical, but behind it there is a cultural change, which is afraid of unemployment and of not being able to meet the new challenges. Believe me, digitalization has nothing to do with cables or with the fact that I am moving broadband somewhere, perhaps in the city sooner and later on, that has to do with how we change our culture and what conditions we need to change in the field of education, for example. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is going through the migration anyway quickly!]] I find great among us – because we always discuss dual training – that we have over 200 teaching professions. 50 of these we are currently implementing the digital requirements, in the five largest fields. I see this as a crucial condition for us to deal with the future. Why? – Because even the South Koreans – who have not so far paid attention to this – now rely on systematic training of the skilled. It is no longer enough to teach someone at a machine, today you need more possibilities, on conditions. I believe that this is the crucial point on the subject. We need to learn about the future of digitalisation, take it with us, change culture. The second point: We always shudder about allergens and nutritional values and others. The EU must devote itself to the major tasks and leave to them the small but perhaps important tasks that the Member States themselves can accomplish. This is a crucial point. This also sounds simple, but is complicated, because in reality we always do everything in this form on 3,500 pages and say “Clean Energy Package” to it. That is wonderful, but the question of refugees, the issue of CO2 emissions, the question of food safety and others we have not dealt with. These are the tasks of the EU. These major issues, which a nation alone cannot solve, must solve them. The other issues must be resolved by the Member States. These are just two examples of where we have to go if we want to change accordingly. A few others have already been mentioned, I can only join them. Thirdly, I can only agree with the fact that it is not against the EU if, in some areas, there is a differentiated Austrian position, for example, in the case of family aid that one would like to pay index-related. I note what the EU is doing in some areas, for example in the payment of its diplomats: an index-related process according to the purchasing power of the Member States. The idea and the overall structure are not completely taken out of the air or illegal in the EU, there is an example there and there. To represent Austrian interests, but in the context and on the ground of the EU's rule of law, I think that it is not just an ongoing but mandatory procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With these examples that are not taxed, but with a clear focus on what is really important to the citizens, what interests young people, we are actually at exactly what this really is all about. It is not about having an EU, but rather a better, a changed, a sustainable EU. In this sense, I find many similarities here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10013	We are going into the debate. I would like to point out once again that according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak in more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. First word message: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10040	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and in front of the screens! The so-called Brexit in the course of the referendum in the UK last year, when the majority of the British voted in favour of leaving the European Union, was, of course, a huge blow that many would not have expected. Of course, it was also a clear signal that many old self-evidents have lost their validity and that there is a great dissatisfaction which has been expressed and expressed very clearly in the UK by a referendum. This dissatisfaction is certainly also present with many citizens in other countries of the European Union, and that is why, I believe, it is important to take a little note of what has been said today. There is a massive frustration in the European Union, by the failure of the European Union to comply with and ensure its own laws, whether these are the Dublin agreements: a complete failure; whether the Schengen border regime is a complete failure. This, of course, reduces confidence in the European Union, because if this great Union, which has begun to solve major problems, fails so easily in the really big problems, then of course, one loses all confidence in this institution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This development has been fully approved, including in the direction of mass migration, a development of a centralist European Union, which does not, as today announced, involve more federalism, more sovereignty rights for the Member States, but precisely the opposite: One acts more and more, partly more arrogant, until one has not complied with the Maastricht Treaty and has developed towards a debt union, which is a barrel without soil and in which, of course, taxpayers come to the handkuss. The trend in unemployment has also been addressed today. Yes, these are not rosy developments, since the big problems are not really solved visibly. As we have heard today from the government bank, there are general points of view: You have to work out a plan! You have to go to Lö- Search for songs! – What has been done in recent years? – It would be necessary to make decisions now so that these problems can finally be solved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These problems are not only here since yesterday, and the gap between the poor and the rich in the European Union is large and is getting bigger and bigger – they are growing. These are developments that are ultimately criticized, of course, and rightly criticized. If we look at the new employment contracts, we also have to deal with wage and social dumping, including in Austria. There is a kind of modern slavery possible, and when we speak of it, I miss something from you, Federal Chancellor: You're responsible for making a little better. So I ask for very concrete measures and not to give any public places the best, because that is your responsibility. If you don't change that in your function, who should do it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is important, I believe, to maintain that the behaviour and actions of the EU representatives and those responsible for the EU are depressing more and more citizens in Europe and growing this dissatisfaction rather than being reduced. In reality, the European Union should have started to think about and initiate comprehensive reforms immediately after the British referendum, but nothing has happened again. Of course, it is also right to say that Europe needs to be rethinked and better, but that does not happen. Of course, Europe belongs to new thought and better developed. That is exactly what the citizens call for, and that is the result of the British referendum, so to speak, that we are going in this direction. It is necessary, at last, to take very concrete care of it and to say where the journey is to go, not towards a centralist state. It is intended to go towards a Europe close to the citizen, towards a direct democratic Europe, towards a Europe in which we look back at the real, original core competence, namely to put this European Union's economic and peace-making work at the centre and not to tear everything in itself and so to speak to Brussels. This is the will of the people, and with it one could increase the confidence and also the approval of this project again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, one goes here and is content to partly condone, defamate and criticize the British for their behaviour and for their voting behaviour, and to bring them to full misunderstanding, instead of taking themselves to the nose – namely, the Eurocrats and the centralists – and saying: We did something wrong, otherwise it wouldn't have come that far. – No, you are unfortunately not able to do that to God. We can see the same game now after the French presidential elections. It is a joy that Macron, the totally uncritical EU supporter, has become the first. By the way: It is repeatedly presented that he is such a great social liberal – not to mention, as one can only laugh at how misinterpretations are best given in the published opinion. He's a neoliberal, a bank representative, a globalist. That's the truth. When you go here and say, Well, now that Macron, as a totally uncritical EU citizen, has got 25 percent!, it is completely forgotten in the analysis that all the other candidates who took part in the French presidential election have very, very critically positioned themselves to the European Union – not only Marine Le Pen, but also Fillon and Mélenchon – namely everyone else. There are 75 percent of the votes received by EU critics. If you're looking at the analysis We must then see that there has been a great dissatisfaction there, even in the outcome of the presidential election. So, I think it's important to see that right. Back to Brexit: After the referendum in Great Britain and after the negotiations, we will soon have less of a member country, but it is important that we deal fairly and correctly with each other, and that we should, of course, try everything we can to maintain good and fruitful relations in the end and not take any actions with which we can get to the side of each other. Nobody needs that. Of course, it is also important to see the costs of the EU. It can't be that you're going here and saying, We're not ready to save with us! – It is important that, when the net payer leaves the UK, one saves itself, in the administration, with the EU delegates. There will be a lot of Members who are going to fall away – that is also good – and perhaps one might think about a reduction in salary among the EU's delegates, minus 15 to 20 percent. According to the European Court of Auditors, for the annual expenditure of EU funds – with an error rate of 3.8 percent – the €5.5 billion per year, which is being laid down somewhere, there is quite a negative judgment. This is to be discontinued, and it is important to ensure that contributions are not increased and that, at the end of the day, the funding for the Member States must be reduced. That's the responsibility you now have. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By submitting proposals for this today, we will give you a clear expectation that the Austrians will not return to the taxpayer because we are already paying € 1 billion net – that is a total of € 3 billion gross – to the European Union. Indeed, through the debt union, we have also received additional costs, which are far from foreseeable. It is also not possible to see how far it is going to develop and when Greece will come up with further demands, because the last aid payments have not been made and the reforms are not taking effect. All this is necessary now and it is up to the Federal Government to take care of it and to ensure that there will not be any increase in the EU's net contribution to Austria and no cuts in the Austrian EU funding, and this is exactly what you will be able to measure, since I am right to give you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that is your task now. The results are to be presented and you will have to be measured. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come very briefly to the potential for savings, which are quite clear. The administrative costs of € 8 billion, so to speak, are not so blatant – it is only € 8 billion! – In addition to these incorrect expenditures on EU funds, which have been identified by the Court of Auditors, there is already much potential for savings. This is precisely what is necessary: to ensure these clear savings in the EU budget in the sense of slim administration. We need, of course, a Europe that is being rethinked, a Europe that is not a centralist and bureaucrats Europe, but a Europe that will become a federal Europe of the European Fatherlands, in which citizens are refocused. Then I believe and I am convinced that Great Britain will be the last country to leave the European Union. If one does not understand this and continues to err in some areas, then one must not wonder, If Britain is not likely to be the last country and the unrest may continue to grow in other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10168	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10189	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! First of all, it is good that, at the beginning of the agenda, we can discuss the situation of the European Union and what Austria is doing in this context and how it sees it. Secondly, I am also grateful that two of those responsible for these questions in the government, namely the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor, have outlined their positions here. It is true that, if you want to, Brexit has made clear the problems and issues of the European Union and is facing serious issues for the EU. The decision on Brexit, I believe, is a wrong decision from the British point of view, because it will, in the end, mean enormous damage to the United Kingdom, it will be a crazy effort for Britain to reorient itself and to take new opportunities outside the European Union for the development of the country. It is also a decision that has been built on misinformation, misinformation and, ultimately, lies, because what has been promised that the British health system would be strengthened is now the very opposite. I believe that what is planned by the Government of Theresa Mays in the UK – through the way of the Brexit additional social reduction – is a sign that the way outside the European Union is often too little based on social cohesion. Austria – and this must be said quite clearly – has accession to the European Union on 1 January. January 1995 benefits. And if you've benefited, that doesn't mean to look away and say: Everything is great, but that means that it was a right decision for Austria to join the EU – and it is also a right decision to remain a member of the EU! That is all said – especially in the liberal camp – which always speculates with an Öxite, an exit from Austria from the EU. That would be a serious mistake for Austria. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Lopatka and Mr Rädler.]] On the French elections, I would like to state clearly: I am glad that after the first round of the elections with Macron, a pro-European is at the forefront, because that means that France will continue to cooperate in the development of the European Union in the future – and that is good! We must also bear in mind that those who came behind him, above all Mrs. Marine Le Pen, are all corrupters. Mrs Le Pen stands for the abuse of European funds. It refuses to pay back 300 000 euros, which it has misrepresented in the European Parliament for staff. These are the people who ultimately hurt the political system most because they steal the people in Europe by withdrawing back-up taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I can't believe what you're saying!]] However, we also need to look at Austrian economic interests in connection with Brexit, the withdrawal of Great Britain from the EU. It is also about the interests of Austria in European policy that the Austrian companies trading with Great Britain do not suffer from the business models of Great Britain and that the economic opportunities of Austria are so to speak affected. I believe that Europe's policy must be understood as an opportunity, and that is the most important thing, every crisis – and that is what the Brexit has finally brought. It is an opportunity for us to get rid of the brakers in the European Union, at least one braker, now. But we must not be blue-eyed: There are brakers also in other Member States, which are also available in different discussions. We need to redefine the priorities of European economic policy, independently – and this is the great opportunity of Brexit – from the perfidious interests of London City, from the interests of the speculation and financial lobby, and we need to ensure that we finally come to an economic policy that promotes investment, and also that we come to a European budget, which is more investment- and growth-friendly, in the context of the budgetary issues for the European budget, which have been debated, and that we also use the scarce resources available in Europe, as well as where they ultimately promote economic growth and employment. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, there are three priorities that must be underlined once again in the context of this debate and in which it will be Austria's task to work to ensure that Europe is moving in the right direction. The first is: We must finally put on the feet an efficient European foreign policy that allows Europe to face global crises, starting from the CO2 issues to the civil wars; Keywords: Islamic State, Syria conflict, North Korea conflict and what I know about everything – and about all the global challenges European answers can be found in the global concert. This also applies to trade policy issues where Europe must finally respond with European answers. The second is to strengthen Europe's location. That is to say, it is to be found the right answers to digitisation and also globalisation, and finally there are self-confidence in trade policy where we, as Europe, say that trade policy also means protecting and not destroying social systems, and for us to pursue a site policy, promoting investment in Europe, and not seeing that Europe's site is under pressure in the course of globalisation. And the third essential point is not only to strengthen the social pillar of Europe, but finally to build a better one. It is about creating jobs, it is about tax justice, it is about finally preventing tax evasion and tax dumping effectively in Europe, it is about reducing wage dumping, a phenomenon that makes us – especially in Austria – increasingly stronger, and creating minimum standards in terms of social cohesion in Europe. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And why is this not done?]] To what Commission President Juncker has finally presented and what we have been waiting for for two years, we can say: It is a first step, but the first step must not only follow further, but it also needs to be added more substance to this issue, because it is necessary for at least equivalent market freedoms in future Europe to be considered in terms of social values. If we succeed in this – and this is an opportunity now given by the debate on the future development of Europe in the course of the Brexit negotiations – if we manage to create a social Europe, strengthen Europe's location and advance European foreign policy, then I believe that in the future Europe will be able to give the answers to the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10259	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10280	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The special summit on Saturday will set out the guidelines for the very difficult negotiation processes. I would like to stress once again what is our priority here. It is, of course, crucial to highlight the economic issue, because it will be the second largest economy in the European Union, which means a lot of uncertainty for companies. In particular, the situation of citizens, namely on both sides, is of central importance: The British in the European countries, in the Member States, need security, but also the EU citizens in the UK, who are not allowed to become a pledge in the negotiations, but are ultimately about these people, on both sides of the border. The historical scope is, of course, of great dimensions, but, as I believe, Europe's policy is much more relevant – above all, the question of how the Brexit has come to be – and there is a rewarding way to look at it and discuss what has actually happened there. It was certainly a sniper, it was a populist approach against European institutions, it was worked with lies, lies by politicians who then quickly got out of the dust, including the Boulevard. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] That is why the outcome of the referendum is not only an expression of dissatisfaction in view of many of the problems that have also been raised in the UK, but also a warning of the fact that the British people are feeling animosity, of the social inequality, of the lack of social policy, of the cetera, and of the fear of the EU citizens, who have now become foreigners in our language, and of the fear of refugees. That was the very dominant basis for discussion that came so far in the UK at all. And that's why it's a wake-up call to all of us! In spite of all legitimate criticism of the European Union, of its economic orientation, of which trade agreements will be concluded, of the way in which the European Union has dealt with the crisis, of the steps it has taken, this should also be a call for all of us not to question the fundamental commitment to the European Union and to the European institutions, and not to participate in this sharp-making process, as some of us do in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The decision in France is, of course, positive. But there are also EU opponents, and I now call the FPÖ by name. Klubobmann Strache here called Macron an EU jubilant. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is he too!]] I find this to be extremely inappropriate in the light of the fact that the opponent, Mrs. Marine Le Pen, has openly participated in precisely those invadings that have formulated the destruction of the European Union as a goal. They met with all these snipers at the so-called “patriotic spring” in Vösendorf a year ago and found themselves together exactly to this whipping, Nigel Farage, who said he was pleased about this decision, and who responded with the statement that he was glad that they had beaten the first stone out of the wall of the European Union. You should really think about it. Consider the economic and social impact that this could actually have on people in Austria and in the European Union! [[Abg. New builder: Where's your headcloth? Where's your solidarity headcloth?]] The destruction of the European Union is certainly the biggest damage, the largest social policy demise project that can be achieved in European history. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: Where's your headcloth? They do not show solidarity!]] Marine Le Pen – and I can only join my previous speaker, Klubobmann Schieder – is opposed to the regulation of the financial markets in every way, it is open to admit that it is financed by Vladimir Putin, who, in turn, openly acknowledges his interest in supporting right-wing populist parties who want to destroy Europe and thus weaken Europe, who openly admits that it operates manipulation by spreading lies through European politicians on the Internet and is likely to also try to influence elections – and above all, the German election. [[Abg. Neubauer: Here you have the best experiences!]] We must fight against this policy with all our power! Klubobmann Strache once again meant that the European Monetary Union was a dangerous experiment. They from FPÖ remain for the destruction of the euro. They want to continue working with the Visegrád States, above all Hungary, where civil society is currently opposed to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is rightly interpreted as an attack on academic freedom, goes to the streets and where daily hatreds against everything from outside, against everything that comes from the European Union, where it is said that the European Union is evil. [[Abg. Honey: That's just what you're doing here!]] Even Hungarian MEPs who express a different opinion are called country traitors. And last but not least, refugees – refugees, including children, and this is particularly bitter – are de facto guarded and locked away in detention camps a few hundred kilometers from Vienna. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is your policy of de-olidarization! But we have to live with that. But there will be resistance from us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is not only about the right-wing populist parties, but also about the political centre of Europe. Parties in many European countries who have made use of themselves to further develop the European Union can become increasingly strong by right-wing populists and right-wing extremists towards de-olidarisation and against European solidarity. This is, of course, Poland, which is also Germany, Denmark, Hungary and the UK, but this is also Austria. In Austria too, we need to speak clearly about what is happening here. Mr. Federal Chancellor Christian Kern, I am honestly horrified at your wording on how to deal with refugees outside European borders in the future. That was a demand that first the FPÖ raised in 2015; all were shocked. The Australian model is a deterrence model, a model with devastating conditions in the camps outside the Australian border. A year later this model Sebastian Kurz took over. Now it is so far that it even takes over the SPÖ, at the same time still with a fundamental No – thank God it has not come – to the solidarity project redistribution/distribution, fair distribution of refugees in all European states. You, Federal Chancellor, went to the Commission with the argument that we had already done so much. One can understand this, but the European Commission has taken a hard look at Germany and Austria and has said: This is such a difficult project, please be aware that this is a fundamental question, which is important in order to be able to argue in particular with the other countries that have not yet done anything, even Austria and Germany have said yes! It is all the more bitter that there has been, as it were, a public discussion on whether or not to allow 50 minor refugees to live in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well with the minors this is such a thing!]] We are therefore on a very essential point: This de-olidarization is the root of the evil. That was the root of the evil also in the UK, as it was also started to hate people from other countries, and that ended with open racism. It is precisely this de-olidarization that is the major problem that we now have to face in Europe's policy. By the way: The most elderly foreign minister, the Luxembourg Jean Asselborn, has said that the idea of renting an island outside the European Union to accommodate refugees was for him a national legal idea. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Even the conservative Viviane Reding, the former Commissioner for Justice and current Members, has said that the FPÖ wants to overtake law and do party politics at the expense of the European Union. These are not now green, yes, civil society voices, but these are words by politicians from their own ranks who have for years tried to develop the European Union positively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – Yes, you can get out later, but if you don’t see it’s about: Everyone against everyone!, then I ask myself: At whose cost will this end? – de-olidarisation: I'm first! Austria first! [[Abg. Blow: GRAS first!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: How about the original vote of the Greens?]] That is exactly what the foundations of the European Union – especially the Social Union! – destroyed. [[Abg. Street: politicians like you are destroying Europe! That's the shame!]] [[Abg. Kogler: (in the direction of Abg. That's how we're already?- Oh, my God!]] How did it start in the UK? – In the UK, the brakers always came up with the plan when it came to the social union; whenever it came to improving social conditions everywhere, Great Britain was opposed. That is the key, however, to how we can further develop this project in the future. But if, on the one hand, there is a sniper party that pursues exactly the opposite, which is much more open than a year ago policy: Europe is destroying, destroying monetary union, coming out of international treaties, not participating! and being denied climate change by saying that it does not exist – I do not know if you also believe that it is an invention of the Chinese – and if, on the other hand, the political centre is moving to the right and exactly in these projects, in the de-olidarization, in the reduction of family support, in the stop, in the social union and in the further development, we are exactly in the downward spiral where it becomes really dangerous at all corners and ends, when it is powerful in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10517	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10538	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor have already mentioned this: ==References== In June 2016, on which the British voted on leaving the EU, it was not a good day, neither for the European Union nor, of course, for Britain, because I believe that the European Union's great project has suffered a setback, which it had never been in the past, for it has been, as has already been mentioned, so that the EU not only lost the second largest economy, but also the European Union has lost enormous political weight globally. For example, the UK is fifth in defence expenditure. And Great Britain was – and still is – a Member State of the European Union that has been the leader in the fight against Islamist terror. Now we have also lost the second largest net payer. There the estimates of the figures are divided, some speak from €5 to €7 billion, which because of this is missing annually, the Federal Chancellor has even spoken of €14 billion. It says: We're missing billions. Now, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has put on the table at least five reform proposals, five reform options, but the crucial thing is that the right answers must be found on the European side, and these correct answers can only be: More in Europe where it makes sense, but also less in Europe where it is necessary! It was the German Minister of Finance Schäuble, who can look back on a great political experience, that the European Union must insist on this rendezvous with reality. And that's exactly what it's all about! We need the right balance between national cooperation and the opportunities that strong national states have for this Europe to remain strong. Of course, in the major issues that have already been raised today, we need a more Europe: when it comes to the flow of refugees, when it comes to the fight against international terrorism, when it comes to dealing with climate change together, and even when it comes to securing the EU's external borders so that this free, open Europe can be fully effective within the European Union. We need a common foreign policy and a common security and defence policy. We also need common answers to the question of how we deal with Turkey, for example. Here in Vienna is always said: A clear no to further accession negotiations with Turkey! This also has Foreign Minister Kurz. In December 2016, he was the only one to represent this clearly. [[Abg. Strache: But you do the opposite!]] [[Abg. Strache: The ÖVP Commissioner, Hahn, is for further negotiations!]] – There is no ÖVP Commissioner. [[Abg. Blow: Sure, what else!]] – There may be FPÖ Commissioners within your party, we do not have an ÖVP Commissioner, there are only Commissioners of the European Union. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] There is, however, a foreign minister of the Austrian Federal Government, who went on 13th. In December, the Council conclusions of the Foreign Ministers prevented a further continuation of accession negotiations with Turkey. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I expect this to happen in future with all the conclusions of the Council: we are just starting from the joint action plan for Turkey, which provides for a continuation of the accession talks. I would like to see the speech here in Vienna and the action in Brussels always in agreement with us, no more and no less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Tell the EU delegate Karas!]] – Mr Strache, I would like to say to you: Better do the right thing late than never! This has also been addressed at the refugee camps – by Klubobfrau Glavischnig –: Sebastian Kurzist was massively criticized when he called for the establishment of refugee camps outside the European Union, and he said that it should be done according to Australian model. [[Abg. Kogler: Where is Mr. Foreign Minister?]] [[Abg. Kogler: Where is the Minister of Europe?]] – The Minister of Europe is on the way for Austria! - Where?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kogler: Where?]] [[Abg. Kogler: In the European spirit railway! He's on the way!]] Mr Kogler, if I look at you: You fit better into the ghostway than Sebastian Kurz, I tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulations and lively cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You must have experience with the ghostway – but please, that's your problem and not ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] – Please, Mr Pirklhuber, your colleague has come with the spirit railway! Talk to Kogler if you have a problem with the ghostway! The third row in the Greens excites what the first one says – that fits your chaos that you have right now! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But, well, I don't want to stop with the spirit railway of the Greens. That's supposed to be your problem, who's in the ghostway and who's not. [[Abg. Kogler: Where is he, Mr. Foreign Minister?]] In my opinion, it is a problem if we have a European Union that does not fulfil its tasks – and one of the tasks of the European Union is to protect the external borders and to limit migration. If that had happened accordingly – and colleagues from the house were on the 23rd. June with in London – it wouldn't have come to Brexit. [[Abg. Kogler: This is at least another topic!]] That was also the main theme there: the fear of the British that they will be overrun. Think back to the pictures of Calais, which refugeeandrang there has been to come to Great Britain! We want a strong European Union in the future. However, a strong European Union must not be overwhelmed, and we have been in individual states with the refugees at the border of overload. And the next challenge that can come to us is the realization of this utopia of the social union. There are huge differences within the European Union: With us the minimum guarantee is 837 € – a social benefit. The average income in Bulgaria is less than 500 €! So what can that mean only if I want to achieve a common social union? – Either go down to the standards in Austria – we don’t want to – or anyone has to pay for it. Who's gonna pay for this? – These are the net payers. We don't want that either. It is a dangerous threat if you come here again and again with the European Social Union. This is unfinancing, I tell you, it's not possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we need is a secure Europe, a Europe whose external borders are protected, where illegal migration is restricted. [[Abg. Straight: Complete failure to this day!]] That's what we need for the first time. The second thing we need is a Europe of the regions in which subsidiarity is taken seriously; that is, strong national states that work best together in Europe, and that of course also means that very crucial issues remain at national level, such as the question of tax revenue, such as the question of the design of the social system. And then there must be no Europe in which one can choose within the EU to which social system one immigrates. No, I don't! And if we need national regulations, such as, for example, Mr Vice-Chancellor referred to it, in the case of child support that we pay abroad, we must also have the courage to make national regulations. That is very necessary in this question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be right there. – Mr Kogler! Of course, the Federal Government is preparing the Austrian Presidency, which we will hold in 2018, as best possible. [[Abg. Kogler: So far, there are two documents in the house!]] In 2018, a very crucial phase will be in the Brexit, as a key task will be in Austria. I am sure Austria will handle this very, very well. We want to do everything we can to ensure that this European Union, within the options proposed by Juncker, is developing just as the Vice-President has said today: more Europe where it makes sense – less Europe where it is necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10783	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10841	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, who are Austrians, but also Europeans! This is the beautiful message from last Sunday from France: that one can be a sincere patriot and at the same time a sincere European that patriotism and love of Europe can be reconciled. That's the first message. The second message is that it is possible to find majority groups in the population with a liberal basic attitude and a pro-European basic attitude. [[Abg. Straight: 24 percent are not yet a majority!]] This encourages NEOS to continue this path as the most pro-European force in this country. If you love Europe, you have to criticize it. If you love Europe, you have to criticise the European Union in particular – and this, HC Strache, is a big difference, but I am now... [[Abg. That shows my love! That shows my great love!]] – Yes, the Lord Strache is full of love. We all agree, and I wish you that, of course. This can only help us all if They're full of love. But this is the big difference between FPÖ and NEOS: Those who love Europe must criticize it. [[Abg. We love Europe! Because Europe is important to us!]] - Listen! Listen in full love, HC Street! – But: [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Whoever criticizes is supposed to make this in a constructive basic position and always solution-oriented – and I miss it at the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen?]] They do not criticize solution-oriented. You want to destroy! You want to destroy, and you're in bad company. [[Abg. Strache: Hazelsteiner...!]] The head of the Front National, Marine Le Pen, your colleague, girlfriend, is still a lot more openhearted. You make this half hidden, you bring in applications here and you say: Let's have a People's Survey on an EU Exit! If you have a bit of a windwind, pull it back and say it's never been anything. You have to listen to what your friends say about these right-wing populist blocks. Marine Le Pen says quite openly and clearly: I want to destroy the European Union! [[Abg. That's a fool! It's a nonsense!]] And no victim is big enough, brutal enough, she says, to ensure France's independence. That's the division, and we don't need it on this continent. We want to cultivate together. That's the big difference! [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm glad that this is where the ÖVP comes along. I would like to ask that I also clarify the differences between NEOS and ÖVP in this question: They of the ÖVP were once a pro-European force. It's not you anymore. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] They suffocate the European idea of unification into national logic, into neonationalist logic. You know, you may be able to win elections with nationalistic logics, and that's why you've become homeless on this corner. I ask you, Mr Lopatka, and I ask the non-present Minister of Europe, who is blasphemous in this question, who makes headline policy in many areas – where is he, the Minister of Europe?; I didn't see him, he's not there; he leaves on these questions, makes headline policy –, I ask Sebastian Kurz, I ask Reinhold Mitterlehner: [[Abg. Strache: He's probably on the way with the Frontex, pick up refugees!]] What vision do you have of Europe? What is your picture of the medium and long-term future of Europe? What Europe should my daughters once live in? Is it the picture, Reinhold Lopatka, Reinhold Mitterlehner, that looks like you say, that will be a world in which – and we know today – the number of people in Africa will probably double, the population in India will grow to 1.7 billion, in which we in China will count a population of 1.5 billion, in which we will face enormous challenges in order to maintain our Way of Life, European Way of Life with freedom, with our civil rights, with the equality of women and men? [[Abg. Rädler: Your recipe?]] [[Abg. Strache: With headcloth for everyone probably with you!]] With all these issues we will be in distress, with the socio-ecological market economy we will be in distress; then it will not be about the question: What about European standards? When we implement the image, the ÖVP is increasingly designing that we say: The salvation lies in drawing a fence around a country with 8.6 million inhabitants, on it making a barbed wire, and everything will be fine!, then our children will once not be well. We will not be able to keep the level of security, we will not be able to keep prosperity, nor will we be able to keep the quality of life. [[Abg. Kickl: For God's sake, you're a terrifying person!]] It won't go out! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – I never said, Mr Rädler: Let's open the borders! The blatant state failure in Austria and in many parts of Europe 2015/16, these have conservatives like you and social democrats, as they sit here, to answer! This does not have to answer NEOS! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Our proposals have always been clear, and for a year and a half, I say it: 30 000 men and women at the European external border! And, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you see that, you can decide next week at the Brexit Summit. We have millions of people in security for our state formations. We can give the march order next week, and next week there are 30,000 men and women on the outside! I thought it was very important for us to keep track of who's coming in and who's going out, and also with the collection and exchange of biometric data, that we don't have a guy on every bomb flying into the air that the neighbouring country says: We know him!, but in the country where the bomb went up, one does not know him and then we have to realize that there are ten different identities of this person. No, I want to record that with its biometric data, I want the data exchange. I do not want seven Member States to report to a jihadist database, but all 27 or 28. These are failures of yours – at the expense of our security! These are not failures of a new pro-European force like NEOS. We want to organize this together, we want to cultivate it together, not against each other. This also means that we are once again submitting the proposal for the gradual construction of a European army. If we had given this strength to the European Union six years ago, we would have said in the United Nations Security Council that the European Union is progressing under a UN mandate and will establish a flight ban zone in Syria so that Syrian refugees can flee in the country, we would have saved ourselves a lot. But Europe must also exert its strength to do so. We have made the proposal with the European army. We also said two years ago that we need a common European asylum system. They laughed at us back then. If we had already implemented this at the time of the European elections and in the years that followed, we would have saved ourselves all that has happened on this continent in the last two years. We would have had a sincere approach, also in commitment to human rights, where we were clear as a civil rights group... – I want to further develop neutrality, Mr Strache, in the sense of European solidarity. [[Abg. Strache: The Austrian neutrality do you want to abolish or what?]] [[Abg. Street: We can't join any army as a neutral country! That this will come to your mind once!]] – This is the flip-flopper of the brand HC Strache. You have given yourself interviews in which you have spoken for a European army – and the next day you row back because three or four people have criticized you internally. [[Abg. Strache: Neutrality is a constitutional law, and we want to maintain our neutrality further!]] Thus, Europe will not be able to grow, not in security, not in quality of life and not in prosperity. You're leaving out of here completely! [[Abg. Strache: They want to send our people to war! What kind of access is this?]] In a time that is volatile, uncertain, complex, ambivalent, you come with very cheap solutions that do not hold in reality. And this is the problem of right-wing populists: They don't keep their solutions! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strache: They want to send our people to war! That's crazy!]] The bigger problem for Austria is that you have infected with your position on the left and right, SPÖ and ÖVP. That makes me worried. [[Abg. Strache: You want to sacrifice our neutrality so that you can send our children to war somewhere!]] I understand that the citizens say they have the impression that the governments have lost control. I understand this, and we must take it very seriously, as well as the fact that the tax relief in Europe is being carried under the participation of national governments. [[Abg. New builder: We don't take you seriously!]] The middle class suffers from the high burden of tax and tax pressure while the international corporations are directing it. [[Abg. Strache: The hazelsteiner, the tax refugee in Italy, it is right! The tax refugee Haselsteiner judges it!]] Who's allowed this for decades? – The ÖVP, the SPÖ and their sister parties. We need to clean up with such things. Europe must be a good deal for the population – or it will not be. And the proposals we bring NEOS show good deal for people. This is the Europe I want to live in!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11180	Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11202	Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to take the opportunity to go to one or the other. I have already asked for understanding that I cannot be here today until the end of the debate, but it seems important to me to add a few more points. [[Abg. Kickl: How long are you here?]] – Long enough to explain to you what is really going on, Mr Kickl! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Abg. Kickl: I'm just asking because if you should hear anything, you're gone again! That wasn't all right!]] The following: There were a few discussions on the basis of which I have to say: One must try to find rational access to this debate, because I agree with an analysis: It does not make sense if we address each other, the next day the newspapers have filled with it, happen in the evening in the “time in the picture”, and then nothing happens again, and things remain as they are, but we have the goal to change things together and try to bring them forward. First of all, I think you have to say quite clearly: What are the possibilities we have in all these constellations? . I can proceed here in the chronological order and go forward on a few points which Mr Strache has mentioned. You have rightly pointed out the issue of wage and social dumping, and you know that this is exactly one of the points where we are particularly committed. You said that the Federal Government should finally do something. But this is exactly the problem we have in the European context, because what we can do in Austria, namely a European model wage and social dumping law, the High House has decided gratefully. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And what does it help? Nothing!]] We know that the FPÖ has not voted in favour – just to hold it. [[Abg. Strache: A complete pot, this law!]] This law has led us to make significant progress in this area with a significantly closer network of controls. But they are not enough because the problem is... – colleagues, listen for a moment, I have listened to you too! [[Abg. Kickl: Didn't you think of that before?]] Let us try to have a reasonable debate. After all, you have the opportunity to talk. [[Abg. Kickl: In the Presidential it was not with the second word message!]] – The story is that... – Mr. Strache, my goal is to discuss with you. [[Abg. Strache: There are agreements in the Presidency! You go at 12.30 a.m. and you can't listen to the honourable Member! That's not a good style, Chancellor.]] I listened carefully to you, and now I suggest that you listen to me for a moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11319	Mr Klubobmann Strache, only to clarify: At the presidential meeting, a final address was agreed for the two declarations by Federal Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors, otherwise the Rules of Procedure will apply. Furthermore, no further agreement has been reached, nor is there any indication that the Federal Chancellor or other member of the government should no longer speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11337	Thank you very much for the clarification! I think it makes sense for us to talk to each other, and what I would like to point out is: What you are calling for here, even if we are probably not far apart in terms of content, we must try to achieve in a European context. That was the problem I mentioned: Solidarity in Europe means that the others also have to play. And if the implementation of the proposal by the European Commission, which is now in place, which is not, in any case, large, which is unlikely to solve the problem at last, is so to speak, then that is something we need to discuss. When we talk about solidarity in Europe – and this is in line with the accusations made by Mrs Glavischnig: “Austria first” – and the situation is that there are 180 000 shipments from the neighbouring countries to Austria, if we know on the basis of checks that collective agreements will be trampled there with feet, that there will really be dumping, then we can say that we are discussing this another 12 months and another 12 months and another 12 months, and hope that there will be someone there and the European majority will be. And that's exactly the point: They won't if we don't make massive pressure. If we call it "Austria first", then I should be right, Mrs Glavischnig, for I would say that this is, of course, about protecting our interests, if others do not comply with European rules. This is the concept behind our proposal with the employment bonus. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you going by half one or not?]] Then perhaps another point that has been raised, also by Mr Strache, because this is important to me: They said we need savings and we need to be more efficient. – You're right, that's what we finally want to do together, you have to look at it. You have referred to the reports of the European Court of Auditors, which are indeed a source, and I am of the opinion that there are possibilities, just as you do. But I don't think we should tell people in Austria that we are able to compensate €14 billion, because that's the number it's about. You have to calculate the customs revenue, which is what Mr Lopatka meant, which is also part of it. This means that this will not be enough, of course, because even if you send all the staff of the Commission, Parliament and the Council home, this will not be done with the savings. I would like to point this out. So we will not avoid having a discussion about this, nor will we have a discussion on the promotions. They meant we shouldn't do that, but for arithmetical reasons, we won't be spared if we want to, and we're standing behind it. I would also like to draw attention to one point raised by Mrs Glavischnig. It has used the word horror in this context. [[Abg. Kickl: A little time is left!]] I think we should be careful in these discussions that we should not shorten this in a way that reality is no longer pictured. We have the situation today that we are faced with a migration that will not be over in many years. We all know that the phenomenon is not over this year, that it will not be over next year, because the causes – destruction, wars, climate change – are a reality and will continue to influence our world. Here we have to say quite clearly that Austria had a position that we did not close the Lukes, that we have received people to a large extent, even up to the limits of our performance. This concerns our education systems, our health systems, and this, in the end, also concerns the question of whether we can provide jobs. At this point I would just like to remind you that the Minister of Finance has stood here, explained the budget and informed you that we are making 2 billion € available for the integration of refugees and migrants in Austria. That means, it's also an expression that something happens. The Federal Government has now put one thing on top of it and said that we must try to integrate the people who are here in our country, as well as possible into our culture, into our value landscape. [[Abg. Strache: How well that has worked over the last decades, we have seen at the referendum!]] But we also know that a limitation of entry is important – and what works most effectively at the moment is the agreement with Turkey. Whatever we lose about Turkey's criticism – and there's more than enough – in other areas, this agreement works. The plea I held was: If this works, and we know that we are getting under control of the Balkan route, and if the problem is now moving to the Mediterranean, then we must also consider whether there can be similar agreements with other countries; and, of course, under the supervision of the UNHCR, that is a condition. It will not help if we say – as Mr Strolz has done – that: 30 000 people will be sent there on Saturday, because of course we already have the question to answer: And then what? We already have a European obligation not to look away. That is why we will have to discuss this whole question, and we will therefore have to deal with it in detail. That was what I pointed out. You have to be so honest and admit that it won't be enough if we say: Zack, we will close the Mediterranean route because that will have consequences and consequences. I have – and I would like to stress this – also explicitly spoken of decent conditions, and that means supporting development in these countries, implementing infrastructure projects, and, and; there are a wide range of proposals. The EU Commission has also made a major contribution. Look at what happens in Senegal, in Mali, in Niger, in Nigeria and so on! Progress will be made there, which we in Austria often take insufficient note of. It should be stressed explicitly once again: The Australian model has little to do with it. I do not want to show the various differences here now, but there are, of course, large bandwidths. I fear that if we want to solve this issue and do what we can do here in our country, right up to the limits of what is possible, but not beyond that, then we will have to have these discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11406	Mr. Dr. Cap is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11427	Somehow this has been the case for the government to seek a dialogue and a discussion process, and what saddens me a little, is that the opposition is almost unable to accept this dialogue offer. It was declaratory words, it was indicting, there were moralising words, but at the beginning many concrete points were addressed by Mr Bundeskanzler and then by Mr Vice-Chancellor, and this has not yet been addressed. I think there's a chance but now. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Mr Kickl, you laugh; You are also on the list of speakers, so you could try to change this strategy and really get into this dialogue process! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I find this claim to seek alliance partners in the European Union to justify this process of change, which is necessary. That is also the reason for the joy of the outcome of the election in France – with all the criticism, one does not have to agree on all points with Mr Macron. A guest commentator, a professor from America, today writes on the last page in the German “Handelsblatt” about the need for a radical change in the European Union. Macron wants to work with the others in the European Union on this path. On the one hand, it wants to go the way towards strengthening competitiveness, developing investment prospects for entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, towards social security and perhaps there and there towards savings in terms of the state structures in France itself. You need to read through the program once, it is a smart, forward-looking program! The reduction of the view in the way one says that he is just a pro-European is therefore wrong because he is not for this European Union, as it is now, but he wants to change it, and that was actually the statement by the Federal Government. If one still performs protective functions on this path, be it on the labour market, whether in other areas, in the security field or wherever it is, I think, the task of a federal government and, as Mr Bun-deskanzler mentioned, is actually also a matter of balance between national sovereignty and the European level. I do not want us to give budgetary sovereignty to any European finance minister, but I do not want the balance to work. If you look at the programme of populists – I say, because Mr Mélenchon, the left-wing populist, you should not forget, the anti-German, anti-EU, nationalist and a 200-billion debt package for the French state has demanded; that of Marine Le Pen is even interesting: it wants to leave the EU, exit the euro zone, leave NATO, and then it may also want to leave itself; so I have never seen such a programme at all, that is Marine Le Pen – then you have to ask the question, and this question could also have been raised in the Brexit: What is the next day when these forces prevail? Only this applies: What's the next day?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Strache: The development is so good that May now makes new elections! The financial square has attracted so much that May now makes new elections!]] In fact, this is the longest day. The Ukip has now taken on responsibility, Cameron has lost the poker party and has gone, and the worst is the Labour Chairman, who has no idea at all, he has only watched all the time. This is essentially the scenario we have experienced in the UK. France has now signaled a No, but Macron must say that 40 percent: Get out of the EU, get out of the way!, of course, also address it. What I think is particularly important is: 8.5 million Austrians with their own currency will not be able to stand against China, against India, against Trump, against the whole world, but 67 million French will not be able to stand alone. We have one chance: to get together! [[Abg. We don't have to interfere everywhere, Mr. Cap!]] – I will talk about reinventing immediately; You are now reinventing yourself with the new professorial glasses, Mr. Klubobmann Strache! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] If you look at me so hypnotically during your speech, I have to say that I am still not quite early, so that I take up everything you say, but that with reinventing of course has something. I think this must be taken into account, and I believe that the electorate in France has taken this into account. The theme range ranges from mass unemployment, low competitiveness, security issues to immigration, especially since integration capacity has already exceeded. Look at the suburbs! Macron says: We need to do something in the suburbs. In the banlieues, we have to deal with educational reforms, reduce the number of school students, give teachers a premium so that they can stand there better. – All wise suggestions! I hope he's on the 7th. May wins. I tell you quite honestly – this is like the monetary debate, it is often spoken about the currency: hard euro, soft euro! as if it were a breakfast egg; that is impossible! – it’s really about responsibility to take over. I think that we are now called upon to take this into account in the end. There you can quietly go beyond the mere debate on numbers and think a bit about what the overall message is. It is not only a peace project, but also an economic project, also a social project. I can see that, honestly, as Federico Fellini, who said: “The only true reality is the visionary.” And why don't you have visions?- Oh, my God! I thought it would be useful to say that in this area too. [[Abg. Strache: What did the Vranckky do to you at the time?]] - That's right! And if you were a doctor, I wouldn't go to you because you don't have any solutions. There's every pharmacist starved. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] If I have sniffs, you say: Look at you getting well! Good luck! Happiness! - That's too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11522	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11554	Mr President. High house! We have heard a lot about Brexit today, about the exit from Great Britain, but we have heard relatively little about the causes. Very interesting is the following: The two members of the government have made an analysis of what the problems would be, they have called unemployment, they have called social dumping, they have also mentioned some other points, but what you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have forgotten in your first speech and have only mentioned in the second speech – you had to address this, because you have been pointed out from some sides – was that the problem that is behind all these problems, which is why the UK finally left out is the refugee crisis. The refugee crisis has sometimes also led to the problem we now have. The British no longer wanted to let themselves be danced around on the nose. The British people have noticed that this cannot continue, and that is why this vote has gone as far as it went out. – And if we don't talk about the refugee crisis now, at least not solution-oriented, I miss it. I have not heard anything about this in your first speech, Mr Bundeskanzler. And Mr Vice-Chancellor told us that the biggest problems in the European Union are digitising. You're actually trying to talk to us about that. This is certainly not the biggest problem. And unemployment is not the biggest problem either, because there are countries, such as Germany, which have no problem with unemployment at all; the very opposite is the case. The problem is that there is a caste in the European Union that believes it is better to know than the citizens. There is a Commission that actually believes that it knows what is good for European citizens. And if European citizens don't see it like that, they're simply being mouth-deaded by defaming all those who are critical of this as Europe's anti-European. Nor am I anti-European, quite the contrary, I see Europe as an important peace project, but I do not want to get ahead. This leads us to sovereignty. The British want their sovereignty, the British do not want to accept that a year before the refugee crisis has begun has been decided in the European Union – it has been decided! Mr Avramopoulos, Commissioner for Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship, also said publicly: We need 17 million immigrants in the European Union in the next few years! That's what he said at the time. The Commission is asked: Was there no contradiction? On the contrary! At the time, the Commission felt that it was useful and necessary to redirect the flows of refugees to Europe in order to have well-qualified and well-trained labour on the labour market. That was the idea behind that. We now know that this has not worked, because those who have come are not highly qualified – the opposite is the case! If you are talking today about unemployment as the biggest problem and we have to take care of it, I have to tell you: You do exactly the opposite with this refugee policy, which also supports you! If we already have 400 000, 500 000 unemployed people in Austria and bring 100 000 additional unemployed people into the country, then everyone can calculate – even without quantum computers, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – that this does not happen. That's the problem! The problem is that the European Union has an agenda which it does not communicate so openly. But after this agenda all this will be controlled and refugees will be taken right off the coast of Libya and taken to Italy instead of 10 kilometers back to the coast of Libya. No, you bring them 300, 400, 500 kilometres towards the European Union, because you want them here. You have to understand this: They want her here! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] This is the problem we are facing! If there are withdrawal trends, then not because we work together economically well – nor do I mind if Britain continues to work well with us economically; on the contrary, I have nothing – but the problem that many see is that one wants to make a cultural exchange. You want to leave so many strangers in the country until there are no more cultures in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] – This is an official Commission agenda. We want to mix cultures for so long until there are no differences between countries. You think there's no more wars then. This must be broken on the tongue: One seriously believes that then, when one removes the differences between the peoples of Europe by mixing them wildly in a washing machine, there are no wars anymore. That's the agenda that's being persecuted! I'll tell you: There is a simpler way of not having wars in Europe, namely economic cooperation – and that is good! They say that the UK has left, but they will still see what they have to do with it. We shall now make contracts which will in any case bring disadvantages to the British. You are also harming the European Union, because this economic cooperation is important. You'd be like someone who's igniting the house if his wife gets divorced, just so the woman doesn't get half the value of the house. That's exactly what you're doing! They destroy a large part of the property, a large part of the wealth that we have built up, which we have created together if you now have to prove with all force that this exit was evil, and all those who may still want to leave, so to say: Look, they've got a big damage! You don't care if it hits us too. That's not a good strategy! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] It's easy. Mr Bundeskanzler, we have not heard a single sentence from you today, what you want to do better! Not one! You said we must think about it, we must have a discussion, blablabla, but you have not mentioned with any single sentence what is actually the problem. The problem is relatively easy to get to the point. There are many, many analyses, but a big problem is above all: You must listen to the peoples of Europe! The European Union must listen instead of passing over it, it does not know better! If you want to listen now and therefore deliver pizza to reach people, I have to tell you, I don't know what you want to do with it. You want to know what people think so and so on by making pizza Supplies? I know you have to leave immediately – I hope you don't deliver pizza. – Mr Chancellor! Do not go to your party-functional pizza to find out what they want! You know, you just need to go to a party event. In general, they don't need to drive out to reach anyone. You just need to set up a speech time once so that citizens, very simple citizens, can come to you and tell you where the shoe is pressing. But you don't want to, you don't. You don't need to do that either, because you know it. You haven't been raised in politics and apparatus for 30 years, you've come from the relative private sector and you've had contact with simple people there, haven't you? That's what I'm going to expect. So you have known for many years where the shoe is pressing, and if you don't know, then ask. Ask your party officials, they also talk to the people outside! So that's not the problem – the problem is that you don't care. That's the problem! Just as the European Union doesn't care what the peoples in Europe want, so you don't care what the Austrians want. They are about making PR, spreading a good impression, distributing a little valium among the population, that no one notices that You don't even implement your own plan A. Not even one's own is implemented, let alone ideas that may even come from the opposition. That's the problem! The problem is, you're not ready to do something. And as long as this does not change, no change will be guaranteed in Austria too! And as long as the European Union is not prepared to make a substantial change in its wrong policy, even for so long these withdrawal trends will not disappear, which now, of course, will become much, much stronger, if one tries to force all countries to be forced to redistributed; keyword. That is not possible, it is not in the sense of the peoples of Europe. Stop with this wrong policy!, and above all: Finally follow your own plan and finally implement something for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11668	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11689	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, who has been listening to you in the last few minutes, is no longer surprised that Frank Stronach said: I've got enough! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has rightly stated that a meeting of the Heads of Government will take place next weekend and that this will not be a particularly pleasant day because measures will be taken. Yes, the European Union is not perfect, it is also difficult to find consensus because there are too many different interests, but I insist: Europe is still the continent that is by far the best and that provides the best living conditions for the population. Let's look at America: a social security, a health policy as we know it – all this is de facto unknown. Or Africa: The views are more than gloomy. We shouldn't pretend to be bad with us. Yes, one or another is quite right to improve, but to pretend that everything is a disaster, that is wrong. In view of recent events and developments, we have heard numerous proposals on the future orientation of the European Union, and you will understand that I would like to highlight this in the context of agriculture and forestry a little from the point of view of farming family farms. Before: The farming group in the Austrian People's Party is closed in the assessment that there is no political alternative to the European project, to the European Union. For us there is only the look and the way forward and not back. I say this as a political representative of a professional group that has been dealing with a permanent reform process since EU accession. Since 1994, we have implemented five major reforms in agricultural policy, and we are currently implementing the latest reform, namely the change from historical to regional model. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The only constant in agricultural policy has been the change for over 20 years. At the same time, we have always made it possible to use the opportunities of this common agricultural policy – through the rural development programme, the public and mining programmes – for local farmers, for consumers. Today, our rural family farms produce sufficient, high-quality and durable foods, which are appreciated and bought by consumers, environmentally friendly, resource-saving and to the highest standards. [[Abg. Beautiful: The one we pay perfectly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers in Austria are very often underestimated. Here you can find a very interesting prospectus from an Austrian company that you finance and build stable facilities in America. [[keeping a prospectus in height]] There a farm with 1 000 breeding sows and connected mast farm is presented as a farm of medium size. This is a farm of medium size in America! We have God in Austria, thank God, and we should therefore do everything we can to maintain these manageable structures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That is difficult enough, I say, especially when in Austria the latte, as far as competitiveness is concerned, is constantly increased and we ultimately have to produce at the same prices. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: If the dairy no longer wants to take up its own members!]] Mr Pirklhuber, because you have just spoken to the dairy farmers When I listen to you, the tears come from anger and not from grief. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right, the poor!]] Do you know why, Mr Pirklhuber? – They were one of those exponents that seduced these farmers at the time and preached to them: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] Out of the cooperatives, new guidelines, new production possibilities!, and now they lament and demand that we help them. We'll do it anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They were on their way with the IG-Milk and did everything they could to break up farm cooperatives. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You were there too!]] Not all that is said is perfect, even in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Mr Steinbichler, you were once the Federal Council and the Farmers' Association and you praised everything you cursed today. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In comparison to the changes you have made in your attitude regarding agricultural policy, a world cup llalom is a laser beam. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian agriculture and forestry industry is no longer imaginable without export markets in Europe and beyond. We have experienced in the last two years what it means to live with the Russian sanctions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] That is to say, everyone who opposes a sustainable, export and competitive agriculture and forestry that is capable of decommissioning Austria or renationalising the European agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be pleased about the power of Austrian agriculture. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Hübner.]] We know that agriculture is the country's economy, we know that this Austrian agriculture is awarding corresponding orders, especially for the regional economy, and secures 530 000 employees in the sub- and downstream area – that has only been remembered. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I do not think, therefore, that if you are constantly pointing your finger at the farmers and not willing to give them appropriate support. It does not help us either, with populist statements... – Mr President, you can make so many calls, it will not prevent you from going out here and making your statements about the agricultural policy! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nice.]] We know what the Freedom Party knows about the agricultural policy, and the farmers know that: nothing at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I say: It will be a very challenging policy. There will have to be measures to enable Austrian farmers to have a common agricultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] I am sure that this head of government will meet these challenges in the sense of the Austrian farmers, but also in the sense of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11883	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11928	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The Federal Chancellor told me that he was waiting extra and did not go earlier, just as he originally proposed. I find that very, very pleasing. I also came here today to hear how to do it on the question of administration or dealing with Brexit, and I really heard brightening “Now it’s going on, now it’s going on”. [[the corresponding melody in Displaying]] – That was what you said today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] That, by the way, is what you have been constantly expressing for months, whether internal or externally political. You are constantly at the start of anything, you are the great understandr of all developments and then each time announce for what is coming, the decisive breakthrough and the actual course. There would have been fundamental sentences, so in quality: Man has to serve man and not vice versa. Or: There is also a certain chance in every risk. – These are indeed illuminating truths that we have heard here. A little surprised was I, Federal Chancellor, when I heard that you said that you had been accused of taking an anti-European attitude. They may only have meant – and so much accuracy must be – an anti-EU hold, which might have been the accusation. To make it a little more concrete: That would have to be the EU in the existing form, but that is the EU of the Junckers and the Schulzens, that is the EU of your allies, that is the EU in which the new Messiah of Social Democracy in Germany has been blessed for many, many years. Do you think so? This EU should be critical of you? – Please, Federal Chancellor, don’t beautify yourself with feathers that don’t belong to you, that would be too much of praise! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] I'd like to meet you here once if it's about something concrete. Brexit yes, we can discuss this. Perhaps next time we have the opportunity to make sure you are steaming at European level to push forward the doorxite – and if I say doorxit, I mean the funeral, the completion of these completely pointless talks of accession, which you continue to carry on under the spell. What Needs You're still trying to put an end to this drive? How long do you want to be extorted by this wanton sultan beyond the Bosporus? What else does it need until you can finally get through to put an end to this drift. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore say it here in this context, because I think that the hardness you show in these negotiations with the British would be less appropriate there than to drive a hard line towards the Turks, which you can dance around on the nose. You should consider your strategy as a whole, because we are talking about open doors, and we are talking about bridges that are not to be broken down, while at the same time you want to drive the British in the face with the car to stand an example so that something like that never happens again and no one dares to speak out against this European Union in a direct democratic vote. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kogler: Not the Turks! ... Erdoğan regime, 50 percent voted against!]] You know, Federal Chancellor, I can't help you. I really can't help you, it was you yourself, manoeuvring yourself into a situation you're not getting rid of now. You yourself have said that 95 percent of your policy consists of staging and 5 percent of content, that is what you have said. Of course, you have supplied us with the interpretation key for everything you drive here, for all your doing, for your omissions. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Dietrich and Mr Loacker.]] That was an outing you've delivered to us here, and you're not going to do that anymore, and now you just have to let it happen that we're actually measuring you on this scale. They have been out-of-date as an actor, but not as a character actor. We've seen it a few days ago, that's more likely to go into the shallow, main actor in a D movie about a pizza producer, anyway; definitely an actor, and that's what you'll be measured. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ in the direction of the Federal Chancellor of the Government.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Now he's going! Now he's offended!]] This also fits with the things you're doing: Permanent election campaign is your only program, you are not at all interested in a content solution. You only have to operate your election machine until it's finally ready, but you're missing the mumm that Mrs May has in the UK, namely to sit down and say: If nothing's going on, well, then we'll solve it and choose again! [[Abg. Kogler: Although you have previously promised the opposite!]] You don't have this mumm, and that's the dilemma in the whole matter, and so this whole theater is always drawing new variants for months now, and under the line the Austrians are suffering. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What have we heard today? – The European project must serve people. - No, who else please!Unknown term type: "%s".? We need concrete solutions for specific problems. - No, no, no, no, no, I'm surprised that one has the unfrozenness to make this a great explanation for Brexit. These are all-world wisdoms and placards, which the Federal Chancellor has made once at European level and here in the House, even when it comes to internal policy matters, his standard programme. Today he had taken a little cream, because in reality he and his coalition partner are ticking – let's call it that – but a centralist EU-bureaucratic heart. That is what is going on inside, and that is what is reflected in these concrete negotiations at European level. It is not the case that one is looking for the great one with one another, but there is a mood that is in fact characterized by – we call it that way – a mixture of anger, joy of damage and hems towards the British. I can still remember the apocalyptic descriptions – just that the island does not go down, that has still been missing, after the outcome of the Brexit. There has been a lot of damage in this whole debate, and you have not got rid of them, and you have not become smarter, and that is why much of what you are doing now is the impression of a criminal expedition towards the British. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] An example you want to statue: 60 billion €, 80 billion € to pay the British! That's what you're going to throw after the Greeks on the other side, and I think that's really weird. The British, although not a member of the so-called club, are mentally closer to me than the Greeks, with whom we are sinking the billions of the series, even if they are members of this club. We should also consider this, since the Federal Chancellor is so pleased to use this example of the club. You know what's not in a club, either – because the German Chancellor always says that you can't be a member of a club and be treated the same as someone coming from outside: I do not know a reasonable club, which treats those who pay the same as those who take it all the time. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This cannot be done well in the long run, and it would also be necessary to amend it. Today, they were also a bit restraining, and now and then it comes through, in the cause research. We know who it was. It was in the UK the evil populists who stole the future of an entire generation. I've heard all this from you in the past. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not wrong!]] – Yeah, that's interesting, that's not wrong. That is exactly what you do with this unwholesome indebtedness up to both ears, with liabilities that no one can see anymore. This is the theft of the future of the next generation. But this is the project that the European Union is running and nothing else. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Lugar and Mr Dietrich.]] There you were very fast and very loud while calling names. You knew the guilty right away, Boris Johnson and others. But if it were important for you to carry on the European project and if you had been honest in the cause research, then you would have had to proclaim very, very well, the names Juncker, Schulz and Draghi, then you would have had to make these rulers famous, for they are the ones responsible for the fact that a lot of crap has been produced on which the Brexit could have grown at all. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This is a crucial point. This has not grown overnight, but a lot of things have been brewed together. Now it is about solving crucial problems: How do we do this with these increased payments? That's an interesting point. The Federal Chancellor has already let the pants down before it even started. He has said that we are no longer paying, but he has already announced that we are taking back less for it – this is under the heading for an increase in net payments. I don't know, they don't talk anymore? Today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor said that we no longer want to pay, and what the chancellor has claimed is the opposite. For the pilgrimage to Brussels, he must have packed the weaned pants in his luggage again on the next weekend. There are other problems. By a majority, it has also shifted one or the other through the disappearance of the British. There is now, as it were, no longer this strong axis of the British together with Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Finland, then it is over with the blocking minority. – Yes, do we want that? For this, there is an overweighting of the Club-Med States. – Yes, what is the answer? Is that what we want? And then I'm with Mr. Macron, the much-loved Mr. Macron, who is now bussed everywhere because he's done 24 percent. This is the new baby, but we have to consider what Mr Macron wants. Mr Macron wants a centralisation of the Eurogroup, which is quite interesting. And who is the Eurogroup? – Very few net payers and many net recipients, that is the Eurogroup. Do we really want that? Hans-Werner Sinn said this wonderfully: Well, then you're paymaster in a Latin coin union. – This is the model that Mr Macron wants, and whether it is appropriate to make the European Union future-oriented, that can be really doubted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want another direction, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever pays, make it! We want to eliminate these incentives in the social system that trigger migration movements, we want to have a clarification for the euro, and we also want a bankruptcy right for states because, as it has been before, it simply cannot go further and decisively.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12098	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12119	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Kickl, it was actually the populists who triggered the Brexit and then swindled themselves, who did not take their responsibility at all. [[Abg. Mölzer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Luft und Trug!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We'd probably all have a more beautiful gift for the 60. The anniversary of the Roman Treaties desired a more beautiful gift than the 29th. March, the day the Brexit was officially announced. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It is only about gifts and gifts!]] We too, many of us, have been very sorry, and I too, as a European, regret this decision personally, because it also takes away a piece of my identity – this feeling I have – with it. We all have friends in the UK, I have studied English literature myself, we are very familiar with English culture. We're going to lose a piece of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] As much as we regret this, as much as the Brexit may meet us, I think he will finally meet the British himself. The past year has already shown the depth of the cracks that exist in British society, and I find the lying and hetism campaigns that have taken place in the mother country of political debates to be particularly worrying not only against EU and other countries, but also within United Kingdom itself; Judges are stamped from newspapers to popular enemies. I therefore very much hope that the British will succeed in kittening these social cracks and focusing on their democratic strengths, because despite the Brexit, the British are equally dependent on a strong EU, as well as we need a stable and effective United Kingdom as a partner. The EU should therefore not be provoked by the extreme Brexit advocates, nor by the addicts in politics and the press. I believe that the highest ceiling must be to maintain peace in the negotiations. We don't want to punish the British, because we don't have anything of that in the end. We want and we still need a close, trusting and constructive partnership. That's good for the British, but it's good for us. But let's not think about it: In any case, the outcome of the negotiations will be worse for both sides than the relations we had as a partner within the EU. One thing has to be clear – and that has been said more often today: A raisin pickery won't be there for the British. Finally, the rights and benefits of the internal market can only be used by those who also accept the costs and obligations. Of course, the British also have to pay the bill themselves if they leave the table, the commitments of €60 million are naturally to be fulfilled. [[Abg. Kickl: The Greeks have to write!]] First of all, it is important not to put at risk the safety and life of citizens. The first point would be to protect the residence rights of some three million EU citizens in the UK – among them 25 000 Austrians – and also the numerous British citizens in the EU. There must be an explanation to protect these people, they need residence rights and special rights. More important than future relations with the British is the question of our relations within the EU. We owe the Brexit – and I have already said that – not only to the three third twists of Nigel Farage and the purely internal-politically motivated game of Boris Johnson, because many British people and therefore they are not alone in Europe, have also lost confidence that the common Europe improves their lives and protects them from the negative growth of globalisation. That's where we have to put, that's to say: End of tax relief and tax dumping, end of multiple social dumping! Equal pay for equal work in the same place – this social principle must finally be enforced in the EU. The Rome Declaration gives hope, for in it all 27 states are committed to a social EU, and that is the right development in the direction we want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12208	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Brexit was the occasion for the debate, and now it has become a general debate on Europe. That is a good thing, but perhaps one or the other should read and then discuss the guidelines of the European Council and the recommendations and preliminary drafts of the Commission. If we had been to the main committee, maybe that would have happened. Now we are discussing here, and I shall come to the first point. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact that the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor are no longer present was so announced because they have further dates, but why the Minister of Europe – the alleged – does not find time remains intelligible. It is not, as Klubobmann Lopatka suggests, in the representation of Austrian or, as it were, European interests on the road abroad – you can look into the calendar that is in Parliament – it is not apologised for this. Obviously it is that, if the “Mr. Minister of Europe” – always under quotation – is not allowed to speak to us in the main committee, where he leaves his statement and then goes home – perhaps a little more inconvenient than there – or if he is not allowed to speak here, because Mr. Vice-Chancellor was in the setting of the ÖVP, he then does not come carefully. That, I think, shouldn't let us like it. In any case, I do not want to accept this, because he would have been able to calm down, above all, the debate on the Brexit, but only quite rightly, the general debate on Europe's policy with the new effects or the results that the Minister of State for Economic and Social Policy is making in this respect. He is pretty slow not only on sideways, which has affected the Austrian-European attitude so far, but now he is on the opposite road and therefore spirit drivers. Yes, it is that the Minister of Europe is now acting as a European spirit driver. But at least he's supposed to have the mum to come here – but that's no longer possible. [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Probably because he's back, and that's also a drama in this Republic, when Boulevard comes out and enters, and on the first, second, third and fourth sides, the readers with all the populist attitudes, as they are rightly called today, which we're used to, brighten up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] I have nothing against popular formulations so that, in a complicated time and in a more complicated world, more people can be taken with them, so that they can understand one, but go here and put it all in a perfectly indirect way, and that, the Minister of Europe himself, is justified by false facts, as was proved recently – only yesterday in the debate with the Director-General of the Committee on Social Affairs – that is not possible. This will also be recorded here in plenary that we are now dealing with a minister who has everything else in mind, not only Europe. That's why you should delete the title. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] But, well, let's get to the European debate. Of course, it is so - I also address these difficulties - that in times like these many no longer come along that the famous one, so glorified by you... – Mrs Fekter, perhaps you are dealing with things where you are a prioritized more competence! [[Abg. Fekter: Your boys you threw out!]] [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] But now on the question of globalisation: It is indeed true that more and more global profits are being drawn from the whole, but have less and less of them. This also explains the discrepancy in societies, between continents and still and ever more strongly between North and South, between the societies here in Austria and Europe. It is true that we originally benefited from the so-called Easter enlargement – now also – but who benefits from it? – There’s no need to wonder if people in their despair and in the non-majority at the increasing speeds of these discrepancy developments are tipping the wrong side at what I would estimate. That's it. But now you have to go back to things, that is of course also our job. Since Jacques Delors has already been quoted today, let us briefly turn to this page, which is now sitting in the middle, but should normally sit right from here – now they are sitting there. [[towards FPÖ]] If Delors says you can't fall in love with a single market – I mean, it's already so old that I forgot it again, but it's more up-to-date than ever – then I ask: Where did the alternative, unconditional blind love or hatred lead to any fatherland? – Strings in two World Wars, which have taken the origin of this continent. This danger is not so recognizable now, perhaps it is not that way – we all want to hope that – but the tendencies are going in this direction. That's why it's time to end this love affair with the Le Pens and how they're all hot! They don't hide it at all, they stand up and say yes, they want to destroy Europe. You go patriotic spring cuddles with them. Let's look at the spring, it'll get warm soon! You then agreed in your campaign because you knew – thank God, or whoever you should thank, so all those who have cooperated in the various arguments and campaigns – that there is clearly no majority in Austria for this displeasure; and perhaps there will be no one in France, and hopefully not in France. [[towards SPÖ]] But it is now the case that you have to stand up and stop every day. - That's our job. That's right, ÖVP! – the Minister of Europe will find the right way to re-establish the general theme and do not misinterpret it somewhere. That would be a task. Perhaps you should take him into prayer so that he does not take the same fate as a finance minister who is now sitting on this bank, but on the dock. I have the impression more and more that if he does not take care of the short, he will still be the European and integration policy Karl-Heinz Grasser. Whatever we have to deal with here is what the Austrian Parliament has to do with. If I look towards the Presidency of Austria in a year and a half, I have to say: She's poorly prepared. Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka wanted to cheat on this, but she's not well prepared. All European documents should be here in the house. You know what? – Two milky pieces of paper are here so far. I don't assume they're dizzying us, it's just not there anymore. ==References== July everything is done, because in the meantime there is the useful process – as I have noted recently, most of the people here obviously do not know – that we should prepare something in this trio presidency together with Bulgaria and Estonia. But nothing happens, only a few headlines are sent around – and that's too little. So where should the trip go if they ask us now? On one point I agree with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also with Mr Muchich in yesterday's debate: Yes, in the labour market issue, abuses that already violate existing regulations are to be combated, of course also in cooperation with the authorities of other countries and with the Commission. But the fact that the child is immediately poured out with the bath and everything up to what I know I want to clear back for a time of disintegration is the wrong way. There is enough investment, youth unemployment in southern Europe – we are currently losing whole generations – and in other things like tax fraud. All of this has been mentioned in glory, but if you look closely, you see, it is the representatives of some Member States who usually have more Kerbholz than the European Commission. But Commission policy must also be better, because if you are speaking per Europe, you must naturally have one in mind – that is also the difficulty of our declaration, but we are trying to do it – that you must radically reform the European Union. That's right. That's what others said. This task must be faced, and one must look at where it is necessary, and must not simply make a smooth and forward-to-earth return. This is not a forward direction, it is simply a rowing back and a country like Austria is unworthy anyway. However, we do not discover another preparation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] In Brexit, of course, it will be precisely that we do not like that the Rosins picker is going to happen there. The danger is great, because there are 27 countries, there is always one that likes to pick out. Austria is in the middle of it, not just in it, and it will be about keeping these 27 together, otherwise you can't negotiate well. That's perfectly logical. These negotiating papers, which have not been debated here, are not even as bad as they are, but they will prove to be in practice in terms of cohesion. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] As far as the British themselves are concerned: Go to London – we were in Liverpool the other day – or look at Glasgow first, what there is for a howling and tooth gnawing! There you can only say: Brexit, no thank you, and first of all I'm right: Öxit, no thank you! We know that you're on the wrong track. [[Abg. Kickl: Then we'll see how the choice goes!]] The tragedy is that the Chancellor and the Foreign Minister...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12324	The closing sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12339	... also on the wrong track. But we're still going to see that we're going to navigate them properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12366	Mrs Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12388	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kogler, you as your own appointed consultant for everything and I can only recommend one thing: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Foreign Minister is currently concerned with integration issues, and you do not understand this, because the envy is really a little horrendous. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, where?]] On the matter: From an economic point of view, but not only from this point of view, I regret the UK's withdrawal. The many disadvantages for all of us have already been adequately treated. Therefore, this 60 must be done. The anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which Mrs Huttonen has already edited, is being used to mark a new chapter of the European Union. Even though the EU has been able to transform a warlike Europe into a peace union over the last decades, many Europeans have been disappointed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Brexit is a clear signal of change and also shows the deep crisis of trust. The European Union is no longer seen as a Union of Prosperity and Peace, but as a sum of fears, crises and nationalism. One thing is clear, however, who rejects this European Union, refuses global reality: By 2050, our share of the world's population is falling to 5%, but not only that, but also our social product will fall to 10 percent. That is to say, in the clear text for each individual nation state, that we have to beat around in the pointless promille range. All those who suggest to citizens that we can now restore the so-called healing world before accession to the EU really refuse reality, because not only Europe has changed, but also the global world. Just think of the rapid economic development of the Asian states, think of the technical innovations that are so important to us and unfortunately take place outside Europe, but also of the global networking, whether in society, finance or economy, and of course not least the many crisis spots, the terrorist attacks and the refugee situation! I believe that all these developments should actually lead to us moving closer together. We also have excellent conditions: The European Union is the largest single market in the world with the second most frequently used currency in the world. We are the world's largest trading power and, above all, the largest donor of humanitarian aid and development aid. We can really stand there with self-confidence. I therefore welcome the White Paper of the European Commission. This not only describes the facts about how change will happen in the next decade, but also a number of scenarios, how we can further develop Europe, which is now under discussion. It is really high time, because the European project has another chance. [[Abg. Kogler: That's right, yes!]] More than two thirds of the members of the European Union consider the EU to be a hort of security, more than 80 percent of Europeans support the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union, and 70 percent of the citizens of the euro area also support their currency. The White Paper process has already begun, and I am surprised that the colleagues have not yet responded to it. The White Paper process, i.e. the debate, is open, and those who pursue the social media see that both online and offline the discussions are already in progress. The five scenarios, based on the focus of each policy area, should only be a basis for discussion and will be discussed not only at European level but also in the regions and cities. We will be presented the first balance sheet at President Juncker's State-of-the-Union speech in September. I think it is very important to start such a process at this stage of the European Union. However, I would also like to say that, of course, the homework of the individual Member States must be solved and cannot be pushed into this process. This process is an exciting process because it involves everyone. The first phase will focus on content and, of course, the future decision-making process of the European Union will be an important issue. I am confident that we will certainly go the right way with this process, with integration in this width. I have already presented my wishes to a European Union several times. Mr Hübner always criticizes me for this because I would like to see a European Union focusing on the large blocks of topics that reduce overregulation and infatuation, which guarantees peace and which, above all, integrates itself into the hearts of citizens. The models are on the table, please all participate in the debate!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12452	Mr Hable has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12473	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens' values! Despite the counter-wind, which is very much at odds with the European integration project, the European Union remains the most successful project for peace and prosperity in history. In practice, this project has meant that the European States, the EU Member States, have grown very closely in many areas for years and decades. The Brexit is now nothing but the attempt or concern to resolve this very close interdependence. That's not an easy undertaking, quite the contrary, that's very complex. There are a lot of budgetary questions to be discussed and resolved. For example, the question arises: Is Britain continuing to participate with the European law enforcement authority Europol, whose head is, by the way, also a British? Is Britain still involved in the exchange of information in the fight against crime and terrorism? Is it involved in EU security missions? And if it's not further on, who compensates for it, who takes over it? These are financing issues, work sharing issues, which, in practice, mean that the negotiations in Brexit are not only negotiations between the Union and the UK, but also, above all, negotiations between the 27 EU Member States that continue, which need to debate and decide who will take over these tasks and how funding continues. This means that Austria too has an important position here. For this role, for this negotiating position of course, you need the appropriate know-how in view of the complexity. We miss that, quite frankly. Even today, we have not really been able to take a lot from the Chancellor's and Vice-Chancellor's statement of government, which they want to bring into the process now. That is why we are first and foremost calling for us to get this know-how in the face of this difficult negotiation process, which is ahead of us and which is also directly related to Austria. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We need know-how and transparency. That is the essence of our motion for a resolution. The second point I would like to address concerns the question of how the relationship with the United Kingdom should continue. Of course, it is perfectly clear that Rosin picks are not possible. Those involved in a club must respect not only the rights but also the obligations. But it is also clear to us, or it should at least be clear to us that the continental European economy and the British economy are closely interconnected and interconnected. It is therefore important that, if Britain unfortunately takes the unfortunate step out of the Union, we find a replacement that will allow the mutual economic linkage that does not harm the mutual economies – to the detriment of our companies, to the detriment of our jobs. I don't think this negotiation process can be done in a year and a half. I think it'll take a lot longer. The British EU ambassador, when he said it could take 10 years to get fired by the Prime Minister. Well, that's also a way of closing down to reality. But reality will be another. Therefore, the question is whether we should not also take more time to achieve a good result in the sense of the European economy and jobs. Lexit – a longer, so to speak long exit – instead of Brexit would probably be the better currency. I would like to address one last point: On Sunday, ÖVP and SPÖ went up in joyous demonstrations and expressed their joy that a pro-European won the first round of the French presidential elections. Yes, this is very strange if you are happy about it on the one hand and on the other hand you always take action, which is quite the opposite of it. Unfortunately, the German Chancellor's core is not there, but his employment bonus for domestics is, of course, a nice packaging for a job market for EU citizens. This is also the same as the French Nationalists of the Front National propose: Taxation of businesses when you employ EU citizens. This is, of course, a massive attack on European fundamental freedoms. This is not the Europe, as we imagine it, with the hard-fought freedom to work, study and live throughout Europe. These fundamental freedoms are a cornerstone of the European Union, and I am sorry and sorry that SPÖ and ÖVP are now also sawing them. reform and further develop yes, But don't see the bottom pillars – that's what we reject! For this we are not available NEOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12557	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12612	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12633	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! According to the statements by German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, a general European political debate has now begun. I would therefore like to address three previous speakers, because it seems so easy to present simple solutions to complex issues in speeches while at the same time requiring the government to develop the major European perspectives. I would like to quote Mr Lugar first, Klubobmann from the Stronach team, who is producing and presenting his conspiracy theory, in fact claiming that there is a European agenda to promote centralised migration to Europe by Brussels in order to destroy the culture of the evening country. [[Abg. Lugar: This is beautiful!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] I just wanted to sum this up once, not to strengthen it, but so that one really has logged what political views you have. [[Abg. Lugar: That's not how I said it, but similar!]] [[Abg. Lugar: I said it that way!]] Mr Strache said at least that he was willing to rethink Europe, even though his ideas were not new, but rather were very old, but the willingness to think again is basically positive. However, he did not make it clear how his party friends Le Pen, Wilders and so on voted for the exit from the European Union, but he spoke of a Europe of “father countries” – whatever a Europe of the fatherlands is; I think Mr Kogler has tried to analyze it a little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Abg. Mölzer: Do some reading!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] It is this back, the counter-model to European integration, back to the small state, back to all that we have adopted from the experiences of the first half of the last century as historical teaching. [[Abg. Mölzer: Reading!]] [[Abg. Schimanek:... think!]] That is, Öxit, that is, back to Schilling, i.e. closing internal borders, that is, customs at the borders again. [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go!]] – Tell me clearly! Tell it as your friend Le Pen says: We do not want this Europe! [[Abg. Mölzer: Europe is not the European Union!]] Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, however, is not saving me either. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka of the ÖVP, in the last part of his speech, clearly postulated that he was opposed to the utopia of a social Europe, saying: We can't afford that! Mr Lopatka! [[Abg. Lugar: He didn't say that!]] The utopia of a social union must not remain utopia, but must quickly become political reality, and it cannot fail in budgetary means. [[Abg. Lugar: That's lying!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Lopatka! I have also noticed Mr Vice-Chancellor's disintegrated anthem in this speech. Nobody asked us if we could afford the bank rescue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] No one asks us if we can afford the consequences of climate change. No one asks us if we can afford the reconstruction costs after wars. It is a question of political will, whether we want a social Europe, and not the question of whether we can afford it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Dear colleague Lopatka! The chancellor and the vice chancellor have referred to it: It is about combating unemployment, it is about the fight against social and wage dumping, it is about the fight against tax avoidance of multis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] If we bring all this together together, then the question arises whether we can afford a social union no longer, then we have this social union. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No! But you don't bring it together!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I actually wanted to go closer to Turkey and finally make an appeal: Get away from the headlines! We want nothing to do with this ACP-Erdoğan regime politically! Since the coup attempt, the referendum and the announcement to reintroduce the death penalty, Turkey has not been a political partner under this political leadership. [[Abg. Mölzer: Take action once!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: Act!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Please note, however, that almost half of the Turkish population, and in some regions up to 80 percent of the Turkish population, voted against this vote, and at least this civil society wants to reach out politically so that it can continue to fight for democracy within the difficult political conditions currently in force in Turkey! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] In this sense: Let us support a strong common house in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12909	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12931	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In fact, the title of this debate is: ‘EU Declarations of the Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor’. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Federal Chancellor has been gone for a long time!]] Now I heard it was agreed that these would go after two hours. However, I do not think this has been well-designed or by the government parties that have taken up this item on the agenda, because I think it is not of interest to the opinion of the people – and we from the Austrian Parliament, the National Council, are the highest body of the people – when we get out of the dust after two hours. Perhaps Mr. Juncker needs a pizza, and the Federal Chancellor is afraid that it will get cold in the heat box, and that's why he's gone now. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Haha! How funny!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was of course also discussed by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and this was explained as the main subject. Now I would like to take a look at the reasons why this has come to Brexit. The EU's immigration policy was crucial – and this will not be disputed here – in the British population. I think that most of the mistakes have been made lately, and you just have to accept that. Of course, I asked myself the question: What actually works in this EU? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The answer will be brief!]] As far as safeguarding the external borders is concerned, one can clearly answer this with no. The Schengen Agreement is no longer working, because there are border controls everywhere – that is, no. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] The Dublin agreement, the withdrawal of refugees who travel across Europe and are then picked up somewhere else than where they have arrived, is no longer working – so also: no. Stability Pact – we have seen in Greece – no. Pizza delivery: yes, works. From all this I would like to return to the foreign policy. In Austria we have a very, very skilled company leader, Mr. Mateschitz. You all certainly know the interview with the Red Bull producer, Mr. Mateschitz, in which he said: Yes, the open boundaries according to the motto: Everything in Europe! and the whole asylum policy is a mistake that has actually been made very unthinkable. And he notes that those who always: All human beings in! and: We'll record everything! We're funding that, and: We regulate this!, have called, have always spoken of ‘we’, but mean and have put the taxpayer’s attention on it. That is, the taxpayer is allowed to pay the bill for what the others call. When he said they should look for themselves what they personally contributed, of course I also thought about myself and asked myself: Have the refugees personally taken up? – I don't know, Mrs Glavischnig, Mr Kogler, do you have any refugees at home? I've been bothered by this – it's good not to throw away everything as a parliamentarian, but to keep things up and then look through them – and there's something that came into my hands from 2013 and is entitled "Call for a Human Refugee Policy". [[Keeping a brochure in height]] There are 31,000 names in it. If one follows Mr Mateschitz's statement and those 31 000 who have spoken in favour of a human refugee policy, and then perhaps another 70 greens who come together not in there, then one would have solved a big problem for the taxpayer once, because if each of them takes up a refugee, financed and accompanied, then we have a big problem less. I think that would be a good solution, once a first step. I would strongly recommend this to the Greens. Every party member of you takes a refugee. For the taxpayer who didn't choose it, it's a super business. Of these 31 000 we have, everyone can take one. Then we solved a problem super solved, ladies and gentlemen. That would be a thing where you could once confess color and show how it could work. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am very pleased that the Federal Chancellor has received the request of the Stronach team with asylum camps in North Africa. That's a great thing, he's learning to do it. I'd like to give him this today. I could have copied the list if he wanted it. He could have provided a few. I believe that it is necessary that we resolve the refugee issue outside Europe, because that is the only way. Now I want to tell you why. I was recently with a delegation in Switzerland, and there we spoke with the State Secretary for Migration. He said something interesting, namely that – and not only he said that, I heard that shortly before from our Minister of the Interior – NGOs are now circling directly at the Libyan border with their boats and taking refugees there within the Libyan territorial waters and bringing them to the European Union. I have already said this here at the speaker's desk, but it has always been said that it is not true. Now we have the headline from the weekend: [[keeping a copy of a newspaper article up to date]] ‘Court of State: NGOs cooperate with tractors’. That means they're taking them there with signs of light and, and, and, off. That is, in principle, they pick up there, most of them are German NGOs, they have been told me, and they are brought to the EU. Now you're wondering: Why do they do that? There is also a headline from a few days ago “Controversial Refugee Home Company for Profit”. [[Keeping a copy of a newspaper article up-to-date]] Now, of course, we know that they are all interconnected, at the expense of taxpayers who are allowed to pay all of this, to pay these end-of-life procedures. And in my opinion, the system has: They pick up refugees directly so that they can finance their jobs in Germany, in Austria. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we should consider how we prevent this. An Israeli aid organization that serves one or more refugee camps in Africa complains of the fact that the refugees – so-called refugees – are being cared for who have everything that is missing in nothing to run away to Europe because they are promised by the tractors that milk and honey flow for them in Europe. And if we look at how organized crime in Libya – you also know the reports from the newspaper – is supported with this sog we produce, then we have to think carefully – and that would be the task of our federal government with Europe – how to solve this, and there is also a UN mandate to do. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what Frank Stronach has always suggested. This could be used by the tors and those criminals who use and attract the people, and we would have solved the problems outside Europe, because, as I said at the outset, it does not work for us to secure the EU's external border. That would be necessary. With such measures, we could take steps that are human who are reasonable to save many people from drowning. We could do a lot of good and use the tax money much, much more reasonable than our government and the EU are currently doing. I think that would be the right step. I ask you to: Voices You agree to this request, then do something good for the Austrian taxpayer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13041	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13095	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Hagen! Mr Hagen has already said a lot about what you could do, but what you can't do. I may add one of his and the Foreign Minister's so-called "NGO madness" to the active tow of illegal immigrants to the European Union. The greatest madness in this context is the EU Frontex agency and its actions, Triton and Sophia, which have carried over 300,000 people illegally into the EU so far, with structures of the European Union, with money and with technology also Austria and against the existing legal situation – all this with the pretext of saving and doing humanitarian things. In reality, one does nothing but promote illegal immigration and stimulate the business of the tractors. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] That is why it is not surprising that, once we say it, even appointed pro-European discussrs – I am going to talk about this term as a result – to avoid addressing the real problems, the failure and the mistreatments. They fall into three, four phrases that we have been hearing for years, almost decades. I've now been counting: The most commonly used phrase – I have come to eight uses – is the phrase to prevent the pick of roses within the framework of the Brexit raisins. That's very interesting. What does that mean? What kind of raisins are meant by that? Is it free trade? - I can't imagine that. So even of the biggest EU fans like NEOS, I cannot imagine that they want to stop free trade with the UK, i.e. access to the European market, which we absolutely want to grant to Canadians and even Americans – the NEOS are also in favour of a free trade agreement with the USA with extensive rights, in our legal system. [[Call the NEOS:Yes!]] So if you want to, I cannot imagine that the existence of free trade, at least within the framework of the European Economic Area at that time, is a Rosine. So what remains? Which raisins could be picked out? What remains of the European Union? – It certainly remains to be given 80 000 pages of regulations and directives a year and to have to implement them. I'm not talking about tractor seats and things like that, that's polemical, because my colleague, Cap, would say that the cute one has already become a populist or something, so I do not mention the light bulbs or the tractor seat. However, there are about 400 similar regulations, which are equally absurd – 80,000 pages. I don't think that's a rosine that the English voluntarily want to pick out. Or, for example, the subsidy carousel: In fact, 90 percent of the EU budget is going into the subsidy scenario. That is, we pay there and then receive subsidies via a huge bureaucracy – under the condition that we promote something ourselves, usually two-thirds. For Austria, this is a bomb business: We pay about EUR 3 billion in the EU and then get back about €1.6 billion or €1.7 billion as subsidies – and we ourselves are forced to grant huge subsidies. Officially speaking is: We'll get 2 billion € back. But that is not true – we can talk about it – and it is up to a maximum of €1.6 to 1.7 billion. So, 1.3 billion of these 3 billion euros we're going to pay. Whether this is a Rosine who wants to pick out England or another candidate, I dare to doubt. Well, then the debt union remains – even not really attractive for a net payer. Austria is in this debt union with liabilities of over 30 billion euros in it. I do not think that accession or the prospect of accession to the euro zone is really attractive, for no one and not for Britain at all. For the distribution carousel: Well, after all, it has led to...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13148	The Group's remaining speaking time: 1 minute, Dr. Hübner!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13164	... that even real-life national states such as Belgium, Spain or Italy are facing decay – due to the redistribution caussell. And then there is, Mr Weninger, the social perspective, the creation of social Europe, the European social community or as always called it. [[Call the FPÖ:Proposals! Requests!]] - Yeah, that's coming. Right now! – So this may not be so attractive if England or Austria are in a social union together with Bulgaria. Yes, and then, of course, there are many other phrases like: Europe should do only what is necessary and not do what is not necessary. – I have never heard what Europe should not need. In reality, everything is necessary for Europe when it comes to what we hear from the Eurocrats. We therefore, as we have not fully believed in the announcements of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that there is a strong negotiation, have prepared three requests. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] - Can I still read them?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13215	Unfortunately, that's not going to happen anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13231	Oh, you! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You can't even read any more?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13258	Unfortunately, the speaking time has expired. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Nice.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: A very efficient procedure!]] Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13296	Mr President. My dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that it is always so easy to stand here at the speaker's desk and say that people should not flee, not to other countries, not to the European Union – although war and crises exist, although food safety is not guaranteed, although the European Union has rules that lead to it, that local people are also exploited in the global south, being discriminated against and also taken on the basis of life. All of this is not simply soluble, but it really needs a European Union shoulder closure. Therefore, there is also a need for more European Union instead of less – and not at all a solution such as that referred to as the European Union of the Fatherly Countries or the European Union of the Regions. Of course, it is undisputed that the European Union is in a critical state. But what has been missing in the analysis of the many previous speakers up to now was to reflect again what has caused the financial and economic crisis and has also caused it, namely a situation in which the gap of globalisation has not been regulated and which has actually caused harm to people, especially the population of the EU and thus to EU citizens. The banking and financial system is still far above the need to create a social union and far above the need to create social justice. And we should look at this very problem together, and that is exactly where we have to go – politically, of course. Extreme social faults within the EU: In Austria, it is discussed whether the care system should in fact still be set up with caregivers from the European Union – and at the same time whether it is intended to reduce family support for those mothers who have to leave their children in their home countries. The fact that this is happening within the European Union is last-class! It is still being discussed in Austria whether the visible poverty of the European Union, which is visible in the form of beggars and beggars in the communities, should be banished. We have just discussed whether national police legislation should ban beggars and beggars from well-attended places. This is last-class and has nothing to do with a social union. We must finally discuss what actual redistribution means, what job security means – on the one hand, in Austria, on the other, but also within the European Union – and what it means to continue to combat discrimination, exploitation and social disparity. Free movement of persons: It is not currently being discussed about the benefits of free movement of persons within the European Union, but about what flexibilisation should look like on the labour market, which puts workers and workers in a spiral that has nothing to do with social justice. The benefits of the EU, namely the reduction of borders, are seen only more in the light of the safeguarding of its own borders, and at the same time trade relations are maintained by which, as mentioned at the outset, people are exploited in the global south. We live, our technology lives on exploited people, exploited nature in the global south. There is still no regulation that actually guarantees fair conditions, and therefore we do not need to be surprised when people go on hiking or flee. Nationality instead of peace: When talking about refugees, it is always forgotten why people have to flee, but at the same time it is forgotten to discuss where weapons actually come from and where the arms industry actually operates. This means that the individual Member State is also responsible for: In the European Union, there is a border which actually destroys the European Union's system. Ethnocentrism: It is becoming worse and worse with regard to the points that – determined by culture, mother tongue, origin, religion – have been seen as the priorities of the European Union instead of continuing to make joint solidarity decisions. That means that the problems are very broad, are very diverse, not a question, but these problems are not God-given, but we ourselves are responsible for solving these problems in fact – that is, all Heads of Government, the so-called Ministers of Europe, but of course also the parliaments and ourselves. That is why it is also necessary to really get in the way here. The foreign exchange can only be loud: More Europe instead of less! So or so populism in the EU doesn't do anything, we see that at Brexit. Austria has clearly demonstrated the direction in which it should go at the Federal President's election. I hope that France will go in the same direction so that there will be a close-up for all people living in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13368	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double builder now speaks. Mrs. Colleague, is it your first speech? – Then I can point out that it is customary to give up intermediate calls during the first speech. [[Abg. Double farmer.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] [[Abg. Double farmer: (on the way to the speaker's desk, stimulates) Of course, this honors me very much!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13417	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, here present and also those at home in front of the screens! I think Guy Verhofstadt has described the relationship between the UK and the EU very, very well. He said: It was never a love relationship, it was also no passion, it was very, very reasonable, and it was probably more of a purpose. – This purpose is now being dissolved, it is separated. That's why we don't need a rose war, but an objective process for separation. Yes, it is disappointing that the British voted in favour of Brexit, but no one is served with revanche desires, and we have to keep an eye on the whole thing. What we all need – the British, the European Union and also Austria – is clarity, and I mean a clear line of the European Union, which is co-formed by the Federal Government, and is then supported. Unfortunately, both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor are no longer present, but I must say that at the moment we are missing this clear line. And that hurts me very much personally. European policy and European foreign policy should not be enough to make provincial headlines. This is about big questions; and I am also looking forward to seeing what comes out on Saturday. However, the questions that we should ask ourselves are far-reaching, and I believe that it is not enough if we just say: How are we going to deal with those countries that may not want to remain or leave the European Union more in the future? We have to think again and ask ourselves: Do we perhaps demand smaller states with a membership, with full membership, because they may not have the appropriate resources?, or: What about the countries that are removing themselves from European values, as we are currently seeing very concretely in Hungary or also in Poland? What are we doing with Turkey? One cannot choose one's neighbours, and one cannot choose the politicians that govern our neighboring countries. We cannot, however, pretend that they are no longer there just because they are on a path that is not ours and that we may not wish for. Unfortunately, our Foreign Minister, who is not present today, as we have heard several times, has asked yesterday to be honest if one does not see Turkey as part of the European Union. That's what we see and that's okay – but that's why we really can't buy anything, but you have to get in there once, you have to put the activities in place. And that's missing. That is why I would like to know from the government leaders, SPÖ and ÖVP, that we are talking to our Turkish neighbours. Mr Vice-Chancellor said that the EU must take care of the big things. Turkey is one of these, and now we have to go in. I would be particularly interested in this issue: What is the future partnership we want with Turkey? – We must have one, it will not go without it, we are economically and security-politically linked. What happens, however, if Turkey continues to distance itself from the values we want to live in the European Union? And how's the refugee deal going on? Will the members of the government and also our Foreign Minister, who has somehow stolen the glory of the Turkish deal because he is constantly celebrating that he had closed the Balkan route – and we all know that this would not have been possible without the Turkish deal – be committed to transferring the remaining payments to Turkey as well? Last, but not least one point, which is perhaps a very, very important one at the moment, namely pre-accession aid, i.e. the money the European Union spends, because Turkey has a candidate status: Should we turn it off? – I think yes, because this is at least several hundred million euros, which we transfer as the EU for the purpose of promoting democracy, building the rule of law and for civil society projects. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lugar]] I think we all now know that these funds do not serve this purpose, but they only serve a carcrat in Turkey. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] We NEOS believe that it would be a betrayal of those 50 percent of the people, the Turks who have spoken against Erdoğan's constitutional changes, if we continue to pay this sum. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13510	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13577	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13599	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker presents a panel on which under the heading “Find the Error!” the 500-kilometre-long route across the Mediterranean from Libya to Sicily, with an arrow labeled “here saved” from a pictured frontex ship to a point 20 kilometres from the Libyan coast on this route points to the speaker’s desk.]] Yes, it's an exciting discussion, and it's been for two hours. Unfortunately, the statements that I would like to quote now are of a kind that I really wonder that one so criticizes his own work here in the public. Mr Mittekanzler Mitterlehner lamented the need for a better Europe. If you know what a large majority of the European People's Party has and What opportunities there have existed in the last ten years to implement something, to do something, and to produce and say here in this Parliament: We need a better Europe!, then this is very similar to the Federal Government, which produces from one period to another total standstill, practises mutual disability and then says at the next election: We'll do it now! – This time we even made an intergovernmental programme. This is even the first time, I believe, in the Republic of Austria, that an intergovernmental programme has been made during a period of government. And the highlight was probably President Auer – the lawyer in the rural area. If you say anything, you'll get over with the train, because he knows exactly what to do, what's good for the farmers, here, and he's sorry, and he's not ashamed to sue Mr Pirklhuber for consulting dairy farmers – yes, what a failure they didn't go to the President of the Federal Farmers' Party. No, he wants to punish them, in this great program, which is then hidden behind cooperatives, where deposit fees are required. I would not, with a little bit of character, address this issue in this House and consider which companies in the most immediate area of the President are responsible for this terrible, dramatic state of the peasantry, of the rural area, who has caused this, who makes meatless sausages, who substitutes original foods with palm oil – that is great to come here and say: Catastrophe! – who is responsible for having prices at farms such as 40 years ago – without inflation, sensational! – who, as his best friend, has the former Minister of Agriculture and Vice-Chancellor, now managing director of the European Investment Bank Willi Molterer, who invests in cage farming systems in Ukraine and competes with Austrian chicken farmers – sensational! – and that continues so. In this way, one does not create EU fanatics or supporters, but in the worst case one does, as it happens now, legitimate skeptics from EU advocates of EU skeptics. I would like to mention a few figures which, I believe, support this. For example, as shown in Mrs. Weigerstorfer's request, 600 000 e-cards have been lost, are not detectable, but you can't, even though you can do it with a ski pass, that a photo of the owner is on it. You don't want to do it with the e-cards. In Austria, there were 150,000 attacks in Illegaler last year. 150,000 Illegaler attacks – and we are talking about a ceiling in an area of 30,000 people. By this one can see how far politics is from reality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen. These are precisely the facts, these are exactly the consequences, the results that have led to the withdrawal of Great Britain. Citizens were hopeful and then saw that the Schengen Border Agreement was not even implemented. This creates skeptics. And – I think that’s the essential thing – if you can still buy marriage certificates, passports and birth certificates like lots at the Tombola, then we don’t have to do that anymore, so anyone else would believe that there is order here in Austria, there will be registered and in the European Union the refugees, the asylum seekers will be registered. No, we have here, I think, the largest business, the largest black market at all, of all sectors, of all the business areas that exist. There must be a very great interest, and of I've placed this table here half. [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] It can't be if Australia manages to sink the refugee boats if Australia manages to get the refugees to be driven back to the shore immediately! The reality in the EU: The shortest path from Libya to Italy is 520 kilometers. Once the refugee boat has taken off, the refugees will be taken over from Frontex after 20 kilometres and taken to Italy. Last Saturday alone, 8 500 refugees were taken to Italy with European ships. This is money that we cannot afford: per refugee 16 500 €! No wonder the workers here with us who are moaning under the tax burden no longer understand this. That is of course. Who else should wonder that there is a skeptical mood? – But then, of course, it is said that one is a conspiracy theorist and one is a total denial of reality. No, the government rejects the truth! The government does not recognize the results! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why I am finally allowed to say something quite positive, as still professing Europeans – and not as President Auer has said, because I stand by what I say. And one may well make proposals, but they will also be implemented, and it cannot be that Mr. Vice-Chancellor then comes here and simply says: We need a better Europe! – In addition to debureaucratisation and the savings in the administration addressed by the previous speakers, I have a first idea. Today, climate change has been discussed. Minister! Europe is India's second largest palm oil importer – that destroys the agriculture that destroys the health of our consumers, which destroys our climate, which destroys our environment! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen. There is a first measure: a palm fat tax. This reduces the number of asylum seekers, reduces environmental pollution, brings money into the European pots for design measures, for sustainable healthy agriculture. The goal must be that Europe – and much more Austria – will become an example in the field of energy, in the field of nutrition, in the field of health and especially in regional jobs. There's enough to do, but the chances are intact.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13711	The next item is Mrs Gamon. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13732	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! At the end of this debate, I think we can clearly repeat one thing: There's actually no plan. There is no strategy for continuing with the European Union and the role of Austria within the European Union. What you can't even talk about is that there's a vision where it's supposed to go. It must be said that at least the anti-Europeans on our continent have a relatively clear offer where they want to go. I miss this very much on the side of the pro-Europeans. Our party I explicitly take out, because we are clear where we want to go: We want to move towards a European Republic. But where are the visions of the others? Where's the emotion? Where is what you want to tell people what Europe means for you? There's no such thing as that. Where you miss this most, of course, is with our so-called Minister of Europe and Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz. He is probably thinking – in the early days when he gets up – about what headline he's out of, but certainly not what he's going to say about the development of the European Union. The young people, however, have other expectations for European policy. They want to hear something else, they want to hear more. They also want more Europe and can hardly expect to see where this European Union can be in 20 years' time if we start working today to develop it. The Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Europe In short, at the moment, there is as much on the road as a coward at the school yard, who is mobbing the little one every day, always skinning on him and after that he is totally surprised that he has gone down with it; they wanted to do something good to him. [[Abg. Lugar:... Fiesling...?]] Since Sunday are now all Emmanuel Macron fans. The suis Emmanuel, we need to further develop the European Union, they say. Yeah, when's that coming? We are waiting for concrete proposals, we are also waiting for concrete answers to the questions already on the table: Where do people want to go? When do you finally tell us your vision of Europe? Do you want a European army, a proper common foreign and security policy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Do you want an EU Commission that can work like an EU government? Do you want a reorganisation of subsidiarity, a re-evaluation of competences? Do you want a stronger European Parliament? Do you want the European Republic? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to answer these questions, including Sebastian Kurz. I want to know what he stands for, because for me these are important questions. I want these things, I want to go to the European Republic, and above all I want to be able to experience them – and I am relatively young, at least here in the House. What European Minister Sebastian Kurz does is to push this commitment to the long-term European vision – which he lacks – with delay tactics. He is concerned with finding out what small competences there may be that one might shift back into Austrian responsibility. This is a waste of time, and it has nothing to do with developing the European Union. I know that it is not easy to confess to the European Union, especially in Austria. If you are a friend of the European Union, if you would like to have the European Republic if you would like to contribute to the integration of the European Union, you will not be particularly popular with the Boulevard, which is no longer at your feet. But I'd mean, What does it take for politicians, if not politicians? Do we not have the task of using ourselves for unpopular things? Do we not have the task of forming the image of the European Union with the Austrians in such a way as to allow serious reforms at all? If that's not the task of responsible politicians, it doesn't need them anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13796	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that a member of the government is “like a coward”, a call for order. A coward is one who is disgusting, repulsive by his qualities. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: (on the way to Federal Minister Stöger) My God!]] – Not “my God”, Mrs. Colleague! It is necessary to give a call for order. I would ask you to leave the government bank now so that Mr Dr. Franz can start his speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Lichtenecker ends the conversation with Federal Minister Stöger and goes to her seat.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13847	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Valuable High House! I would like to give an answer to the question put by Mr Gamon, which the non-EU jubilees are presenting themselves under a Europe. I say quite clearly: We do not want a People's Republic of Europe, but we want a Europe of the nations and a Europe of the Fatherlands, which corresponds to people. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kogler: Fatherlands have been at war! Why don't you talk to S?]] What you want corresponds to the Mao uniform, and we reject it. I would, however, first of all like to turn to Mr Bundeskanzler, even if he is no longer there and has fled after the legitimate criticism of Mr Kickl. We have a chancellor of staging, a chancellor of contradiction. At the beginning of the year, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was elected on 25 March. January, said – I quote literally from the program “Work for Austria!”: “We have to make decisions out of responsibility that bring solutions, not just headlines.” Five days later, he said – we have heard this today – that “I mean 95 percent of the policy that is being offered consists of staging”. – In my opinion, this is a great contradiction and at the same time a self-expression. If a German chancellor says that 95 percent of politics is staging, that is the revelation of politics. A Federal Chancellor should lead, should lead, should give in the government clear rules, should know what he wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] I am afraid that our Federal Chancellor will not be able to represent us very well at the forthcoming summit when it comes to the future of Europe without England. I'm afraid the Federal Chancellor can only give words and flakes of himself there. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] What have we heard today? Have we heard a single concrete word about how the Federal Chancellor wants to deal with the challenges of the future, a single word, something concrete? – We have heard the headline several times, we have heard specifically: We want solutions! But we have not heard a single solution. Today we have also discussed a lot about Brexit, but only a few times has appeared in the speeches, which is central and very important: The main cause of the Brexit is migration, mass migration! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The European problem is mass migration, everything else is secondary or even tertiary. We must devote ourselves to the issues of mass migration by all means and by all means, especially the defence of mass migration. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This must be the first and most important task for all who sit here – no matter how you otherwise view politics. Think of Milton Friedman who said: We can have open borders, or we can have a social state, but we can never have both. - Quote. We cannot have mass migration and want a social Europe – as we have heard so often today. That doesn't work, it doesn't work, it's neither financially nor in any way sustainable by people, people don't want it. That is why the left side of our government is turning gradually and wanting refugee camps at the external borders, which I think is bad. The borders are to be closed, the camps belong far away, not at the external border, but much further away, far elsewhere. We have to help Africans in Africa, we have to help the Orientals in the Orient – okay, here we are – but everything else is, with confidence, a nonsense and leads Europe to ruin. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] If we want a new Europe of the future, then we need a Europe of nations, we need a subsidiary Europe in which the individual states do not choose in regional terms, but in national terms, which have budgetary sovereignty, the sovereignty of decision-making over their parliaments, their policies – their internal policy, foreign policy, foreign policy. This must be done by national parliaments - we here - and national governments, not by any means in Brussels! That is the goal of a new Europe, everything else goes wrong! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13929	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13951	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there was nothing to add to Mr Franz's statement. I think he got it to the point. I'm trying to summarize it again: Today, in the face of the forthcoming EU summit, we have heard the EU declarations of the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor on the Brexit negotiations. We have heard from Mr Vice-Chancellor that the European Union wants to conduct the Brexit negotiations in two stages. First of all, it is about the conditions of separation – the British should first be forced into their knees – and only then about future relations. The guidelines will be agreed with the 27 Member States and will be adopted on 29 March. April, we have already heard today, adopted at an EU Special Summit in Brussels. It is assumed that the EU's side was on the 22nd floor. It will be ready for negotiations in May. According to the guidelines, the EU is also looking forward to a possible failure of the negotiations. This is a great self-confidence that the EU displays. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I have not heard until today that the EU – in this form – had asked itself: What is going on in this EU? Did we make mistakes? – None of this is the case, the opposite is done, it continues to be practiced by people beyond politics. Only Mr. Vice-Chancellor said today: It is true that the EU should take care of the big things and the smaller things could solve the nation states themselves. No one needs to be surprised that people are turning away from this EU, nor are they going to do so if membership contributions are going to rise massively in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13993	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hable, colleagues, on the establishment of an independent expert forum for analytical monitoring of the Brexit process to increase the Federal Government's response speed in this regard. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleagues on the establishment of UN protection zones in crisis regions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the immediate cessation of pre-accession aid to Turkey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[14:12:54]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1525, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law introducing a pension for victims of violence in homes and amending the Law on Crime Victims (1596, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14069	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Bures, President of the National Council. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14097	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Almost exactly five months ago, in Parliament's historic meeting room, Act of the State. It was a very special, an extraordinary and quite touching act of state. Under the title “gesture of responsibility”, not only the official Austria, the Republic and the Church have come together, but also 300 women and men whose fates and life stories were at the heart of their lives. These were former homechildren, women and men today who have experienced unimaginable suffering in their childhood. At the time, they should have found security and security in the homes of the public or the church, but instead they were confronted with violence, abuse and humiliation. Many were deprived of their childhood, and they were also given the opportunity to live a self-determined life. The very special thing about this state act in November in the historic meeting room was that former home children and their fates were brought to the centre. In recent years, many of them have struggled for exactly this attention, tirelessly pointing out their difficult living situation and their situation in society, reported on their experiences and organized themselves into relevant initiatives, such as in the association of former home children. In the act of state, we have heard some shocking reports and life stories, representing the fates of all these children. I have experienced in this state act that has also been heard: The public has listened to the church – at the head of Cardinal Christoph Schönborn – and many of its representatives and also the head of the Republic, Chancellor Christian Kern and Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner. We all listened and understood at that time in November. On that day, the highest representatives of the Church and the Republic apologized to those concerned and asked for forgiveness. That was good and right, and I would say today, too, it was high time. For too long these people have not been listened to, for too long violence and systematic abuse have been concealed and denied. Only in recent years, through dedicated commissions in the countries, a dedicated commission of the Church, also through the use of scientists, experts and experts of very different disciplines, has it been possible to deal seriously with this systematic violence that took place in children's homes in the post-war decades, thus creating the basis for the so difficult processing of this time. – Our great recognition and our thanks apply to them. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we will adopt a law that recognises the victims of violence in homes a pension of €300. This is not a reparation, because the emotional wounds, the physical wounds experienced by these people, cannot be made good by this, but it shows that we are aware of our responsibility and do not act – as at the time – simply and simply miss out on it. Many have participated in today's law on pensions for victims of violence in homes. Many have advanced this law in recent weeks, have formulated it, have developed it. – Thank you too. I would also like to thank the members of the Federal Government, but especially my thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's decision will make it clear that we have approached the living conditions of those concerned with great seriousness and great materiality and – and that's the beautiful – with great unity. It was me then, before Five months, with the act of state, it is important to stress that the official recognition of the sufferings of the persons concerned must not be the end of the process. Today we can say: It was also anything but a finish line, it was an extraordinary and a moving act of state, which in the end also brought a lot into motion. With today's law decision, we show that the fate of the children at that time is by no means indifferent, but that we feel responsible for them. This, ladies and gentlemen, applies not only to the children of the time, but also to the children of today and tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14166	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14187	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! By today's decision, Home-sacrifice pension law, we're not just proving that we can listen. I can underline everything that the President of the Council has said on this state act of responsibility, where people who have been abused in their childhood and youth have once again explained what has personally happened to them. I also believe that it is important that we, the Republic and, in particular, Parliament, the National Council, prove today that we can also deal properly with the processing of dark moments in our society. This was recognised by the Federal Government; a government template was introduced in March, and above all we parliamentarians – which may make us a little proud – have in a very good way this topic in a hearing on 6 June. Adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 14 April. I am particularly grateful to our chairman Josef Muchitsch, but also to the speakers of all political groups, for it was a very objective and quiet discussion that took place on this very sensitive and delicate subject. I would like to thank you for this, also on behalf of those concerned, because, first of all, it is not natural and secondly, it is also a sign that Parliament is still able to seek common ground and to find it at the end of the day, especially in areas of great sensitivity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There have been two social spokespersons, after a hearing – and I would like to stress this – in which special representatives of those five organizations who have been dealing with this subject for many years: the Weise Ring under Professor Jesionek, Waltraud Klasnic, the chairman of the Independent Victims Procuratorate, the Möwe, the Land of Vienna, was invited to hear the country of Tyrol. Everyone makes an indispensable contribution to those people who have experienced this suffering. I thank these organisations very much for their tireless commitment. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The basic orientation of the government template was that there should be a monthly pension benefit of €300. However, in the course of the closer consideration, we have come up with some points and have said that we want to adopt a good law – that is always the intention of Members – and above all, that if we are already talking about this difficult subject, we are making nails with heads to think about the story too. We have expanded the group of people, and we have not only taken home children into account, but also the church institutions, the boarding school and the care families, and we have also added home or youth welfare providers, because at the end of the day it is no difference for these people whether they have been in a youth home of the city of Vienna or in an ecclesial boarding school somewhere in a federal country. We must all take into account, as far as possible. We have also extended the group of persons to provide minimum insurance for persons with incapacity for work, so that those groups of persons who have also experienced this suffering are not excluded from this benefit. As I said, It is 300 € per month; this amount is tax-free, indispensable, is not based on other benefits and is also evaluated annually with normal pensions. This is not a reparation, Madam President, I would like to stress that it cannot be remedied, but it is a gesture, a sign that we are aware of what happened to atrocities at the time. I was deeply shaken when, in the hearing under the seal of silence and anonymity, only two, three approaches were communicated to these young people. That is why it is not a complete reparation, but it is a gesture of responsibility, it is an important symbol, and it is a small compensation for these people, through which we as the Austrian Parliament want to send a clear signal and a sign. Finally, I can say that at the public prosecutor's office, we are setting up a pension commission in which those institutions are members who have been dealing with this sensitive issue up to now. Those people who have already received compensation between € 5 000 and € 25 000, so the agreement was within these organizations, it is relatively easy to reach this pension benefit. There is a written information from the respective institution, one can present it to the pension insurance institution, then this is also relatively unbureaucratic. There is still the possibility by the middle of the year to submit applications to this Commission, provided that this has not yet been done. Generally speaking, the circle is limited until the end of 1999, because of everything committed in such abuse states from 1945 onwards, the victims can report themselves. We provide € 1 million for preventive measures, which is an important story, and I would like to end my speech at the end of the day. It is about the fact that such a thing must no longer happen in our society, therefore we provide € 1 million for preventive measures, because it must be our common concern that such actions, which happened mainly during the post-war period, in the 1960s and 1970s, are no longer children. This money is therefore well invested. As I said, it is not a complete reparation, but a gesture of responsibility that we today address with this law to those people who had to experience this suffering. I am proud that we have brought this amendment together, it is a six-party agreement, that is, this Parliament is very well able to act together on issues that really concern people, and this can also make us proud.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14263	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that your speech is not over, because you still want to make a request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14278	Thank you, Mr President. I bring the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on the Government template 1525 of the Supplements to a Federal Act introducing pensions for victims of violence in homes and amending the Crime Sacrifice Act, as amended by the Committee Report in 1596 of the Supplements. I have explained the request in detail in the key points, and it has also been distributed. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14314	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14752	Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14773	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot, very right thing has been said. This is not a reparation, because what has been done to these people cannot be remedied, not all the money of the world can make it right. It is a gesture, ultimately also a gesture of responsibility, as the President has already announced, for those people who have experienced really bad in their childhood. I think that these people deserved it, too, because it was known, above all, by the power of the two women who had spent their childhood in a home on Wilhelminenberg, who had turned to the public. So this ball came into play, and so the whole extent of what children had to suffer in the State institutions in the 1960s and 1970s was actually brought to the public at all. It must not be a conclusion today, because it must remain our responsibility to continue to be vigilant. To say that it must never happen again is one thing, there we are surely all agreed; but we also all know that something can always happen. In this sense, it will also be important that, if we decide together today on the pension for those persons who are entitled to claim, we also keep on watching and looking at which group of persons may, in future, be able to get in. There are already a few, I say now, slight criticisms, and I am very glad that we really agreed that this €300, as Mr Wöginger has already done, is not based on other social benefits. I consider this to be very important that this remains de facto for the victims too; we are glad that we have found a common solution. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe, however, that what is needed now is that we all have to think together – that is now no longer directly the task of the Committee, but the task of the Austrian Parliament – as we have to deal with the limitation periods. One thing has been clear in recent years: Very many cases could not be dealt with at all, because they have just been delayed. Especially in the area of child abuse, it is often the case that victims need many, many years to be able to talk about it at all, and there may still be many who have not yet done so. There would be still a need for action. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that will be another important point to which the Austrian Parliament will have to approach. I think this is very important, namely, as a signal to potential perpetrators, that they can never get away from what they do to children and young people, at least they can never be acquitted, and can't hide behind any limitation. I believe that this will be our responsibility to continue to discuss and think about it in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14839	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14861	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we decide on a pension that is supposed to weigh the “meritance” – under quotation marks – that the people concerned have suffered from violence in homes and boarding schools, then it is clear – and all the previous speakers have said – that this cannot be done with injustice. Those affected have been beaten, humiliated, subjected to sexual and psychological violence. This pedagogy – the term pedagogy is already misleading, because it was not a pedagogy – these so-called educational measures, it was not a black pedagogy, it was not a blackest pedagogy, that was education in the spirit of the NS. Regimes, which did not perceive children as children, but downgraded them to social beach goods. The responsibility is difficult because the people concerned have looked away in church and state. One of them has passed, and the other have looked away. That was the division of work under which the children suffered at the time. These serious failures also create our responsibility, which we today bear as politicians, and because of these shortcomings, there is also today this initiative by all the parties and the Federal Government that “stands” a pension as a signal to those concerned – under quotation marks – that one takes seriously what has happened and that one assumes responsibility. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is today an amendment that brings into the law many things that are important to all of us. One point is that we are expanding the group of those concerned. In the original application, those concerned were already included in violence in homes and boarding homes, but not those in care families. This is important to me, because if you look closely at the reprocessing, you need to know that there have been so-called nursing-parent colonies. These were farmers who had up to ten children and abused these children for the hardest field work. The affected person and author Franz Josef Stangl formulated this in his book “The Bastard” as follows: “We had to work like the big ones.” – to take out stables, pick up hay, all day long. Congratulation? - Miss. Instead, there were beatings with the ox ginger, withdrawal from food and sleeping in the stable. I am glad that we have taken in the nursing children together and have not forgotten them, because the failure of state institutions in particular weighs heavily. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But there are other points in the law that are quite, very important. If we say today: Victim's pension of 300 €!, then that's 300 €. The law ensures that no taxes are deducted, no social security contributions are deducted, that this pension cannot be charged to the pension and, equally important, not to the minimum guarantee. Another thing we've made clear is important to me: A very important feature of the stakeholders is that many of them have also had economic and professional problems as a result of these serious abuses. Many are over-indebted and have to live today with the fact that they are put on the minimum of existence. It was quite, very important that we hold on – someone told me by e-mail that this is a problem, then we discussed it together, and it was very quickly ready to pick it up –: It does not matter if we decide today on a pension that is likely to be executed by others in many cases because there are debts. Therefore, one thing is very, very important: This pension is not available, no one can access it, nor can it be counted on as a minimum of existence, for otherwise you would get the money back from the minimum insurance or from the pension. It is important for me to keep this up so that in practice, too, it becomes quite clear how this will be ensured. The law says in § 2 para. 1: ‘pension benefit shall not be considered as income within the meaning of social security and social compensation laws and other federal legislation’. The explanations state that this results in the inadequacy. I think that is very central, because otherwise the money will not come to the people concerned. They all have a claim which has already gone to a Commission and where it has already been found that they are affected by violence in state and church They're home. However, there is still a group that was not in the Commission, which is the group that is still affected by traumatisation and still cannot talk about it. We know from experts that the decades can take, and therefore it is very important that this law lays down that, if there are special reasons why one has not been able to make a request so far, one may nevertheless make a request under this law. The explanations state that a particular reason is the existence of traumatisation. This is a very important point, because we therefore ensure that all those who have been traumatised due to the events still have a right of application, that they do not have to point out to them that they should have spoken to a Commission at the time, that the door can be pointed out and that they will be surrounded by their possibilities because they have not done so. There is also a professional point of contact at the People's Procuratorate; I also think that is important because we want to prevent retraumatization. However, retraumatisation is also very important: Those who have already been recognized as victims or victims of violence must not explain to the authority all the violent experiences that have been suffered, but they are recognised by the authority as they have already been found. This prevents the history of suffering from being presented and explained to authorities for a second time. This is also a very important point in this law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This law contains a lot, so I would also like to say, as an opposition politician, that the legislative procedure was quite exemplary for other laws. We will talk later about another law in which this was quite different, that is the law of the congregation, so I now emphasize it. It was a proper parliamentary procedure with a committee hearing. Experts have made suggestions, after which all six parties have composed, discussed these suggestions and found relatively quick consensus that much needs to be improved. That is, it was a hearing that had meaning, and then there was really the willingness to discuss openly how we improve this law. That is why a law has also come out which has improved in many respects compared to the original proposal. That is why we are happy to agree to this law, but I should like to stress that once again, since there must be no misunderstanding, that must not be a conclusion. There's still a lot to work on. This covers a subject, the subject of merit. But it is not an end, and above all it is not the weighing of the wrong suffered. It's not possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14954	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14975	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Much has already been said about the people who have experienced a tragic fate. Today, we pick up failures, take responsibility for things that have been behind for a very long time, and try to find a solution for very individual fates with a flat-rate arrangement. This, of course, can never make up for individual harm. If children have encountered serious injustice and people often suffer a lifetime with what has been done to them, you can only take a symbolic step, and we do so today. Of course, our group is also involved. We believe that it is essentially a good solution. For us, it was also decisive in the exemplary participative process of becoming a law, which has already been described, that it is a solution as unbureaucratic as possible, so that those concerned do not have to describe their entire path of suffering once again in order to achieve this achievement, that one does not increase suffering again by bureaucratic steps. I believe that this has essentially been successful, and therefore we support this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15005	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15026	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a very dark chapter in our history, about the chapter of violence on children. Violence against children is a phenomenon that has not only existed in the past, but unfortunately God still exists now. One of the statistics says: Every tenth child in Germany and Austria is affected by violence. But we also talk about a facet of violence, which, I think, is worse than anything else: sexual abuse of children. This too has taken place in homes and is probably a topic that still exists in the present. Many of these victims were deeply traumatized and could not talk about this topic for years – I assume. I think it is good and right that all the parties have agreed today. I am particularly grateful to Beppo Muchich for his excellent presidency and the approach he has made. That was really excellent, and in this sense: Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Only by this has we succeeded in looking together, ventilating the veils, accepting this topic and bringing them to a hearing that really knows more. This includes the White Ring, whose employees have processed more than 3,500 cases sensitively and talked to people, or also the Klasnic Commission, which was set up by the Conference of Bishops in 2010 to deal precisely with these issues and past crimes that happened in church homes. We all ask ourselves: How could that happen? How could it happen that so many instances have looked away? How could it happen that various educators have lived out their sadism? – The answer has already been given by some colleagues. It was probably in the social picture that one had, according to which children who had no parents, no social environment, were regarded as displeasure. I am very glad that we have developed socially and that each of us and society appreciates the value of children, because children are really the greatest good of a society. We all have to do everything we can to protect children from violence, from bad influences. [[General condolences.]] It is quite clear that what the young people experienced at that time had a massive impact on their further life. More than a quarter became criminal, 46 percent still suffer from anxiety and panic. Many are also in depression. If the state and all of us now say: 300 € pension – not as an income component, not available, but in fact 300 € – Then this is not a reparation, for what happened at that time cannot make up for any of us; neither can we make up for it with money. It is human lives that have been pumped, because some have taken hold of themselves to live their sadism. What we can do as a society is to be vigilant. We can look, consciously look, clarify and act. We must act wherever young people get into a dangerous situation. We need to be more courageous as a society, and we must make every effort to ensure that there are happy children in the future and that violence and sexual abuse belong to the past. [[General condolences.]] In this sense, thank you again for the great presidency! Thank you very much to all the political groups. I am deeply convinced that it is a good law, the right step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15095	Mr Stöger spoke on the issue of an opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank the President of the National Council. Doris Bures, the members of the Bureau of the National Council, but also the social spokespersons of the National Council, for we have shown here in Parliament a gesture of responsibility. Especially in the last days, weeks and months, I have received many letters in which the affected say: For the first time, we were listened to and – even more importantly – we were believed for the first time. There have been many people who have already cried out as children, but authoritarian conditions in society have prevented them from believing. If we take something with us from today's day and from this gesture of responsibility, this includes that people, children and sometimes adults who are more serious simply believe if they report abuses or describe abuses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is an important contribution from my point of view. I support what Mr Steinhauser said: It is also about how we – he has described it – have been dealt with in the legislative process. It was also an important process in the Committee. – Thank you, Beppo Muchich, that this has become possible! As a member of the Federal Government, I would like to thank all those who are now doing the work with those who have believed them who have put their work into the Commissions. I would like to thank you for being equally willing to agree on a constitutional provision which ensures that our present decision also arrives in the federal states and with all the services. This is rare, so that today's state-law is also an important day. – In this sense, I thank you for your approval and wish that we no longer need such laws in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15168	Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15189	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Above all: Madam President of the National Council! With this act of state five months ago, you have set an important sign and made it possible to move politics and church to set a very important sign for all those people who have been abused in the past in youth or childhood. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to thank you personally, Madam President, for accepting this sensitive issue and working for a solution. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] The next step was with our Federal Government. It has become aware of the need to enable the victims concerned to receive a pension which is intended to be granted by law. That was the part of the task that came to the Committee. We have dedicated ourselves to this task, I believe, exclusively to matters and dealt with them very fairly. Finally, in the last few weeks, it has been possible, both in the Committee and in the expert hearing, to find a solution that goes much further in the overall package than it was originally intended. It is also a very special need for me to thank all the experts in this field, all the clubs in Parliament, but also the experts in the Social Ministry, all social speakers and our Social Minister very much for having succeeded in deciding on an overall package. The points of content have been presented in detail by colleagues, social spokespersons and spokesmen in advance. But it is important to me to make one more point: It means that this Home-sacrifice pension law applies to all those who are until 31. In December 1999, such a fate was encountered. In all cases thereafter, the crime victim law is responsible. What has not yet been mentioned is financing, so I would like to make the following request here: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this also ensures the financing of these tasks, which we have entrusted to the People's Procuratorate and to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say the following: Our political parties have different positions in many areas and on many topics. The more I thank all the social spokesmen here, that it is possible to adopt this so important law unanimously for the victims of the homes concerned at the end of the third reading. – Thank you very much for the great and objective cooperation in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15288	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15377	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15398	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Peham, who is with us today and his 60. It's a birthday celebration. - Good luck! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I now come to my contribution: When we all heard the reports of the victims of violence in the former children's homes, Austria was shaken by the things that happened to young people; she was beaten, humiliated, abused, threatened and suffered a lot of suffering in her earliest childhood. These have documented and prepared organisations such as the Weise Ring or the Independent Victim Protection Procuratorate under the direction of Waltraud Klasnic. For the victims thus identified, there were one-off payments or compensations and costs for psychotherapeutic care. Among them were many who were taken from their families after 1945 and taken to church or urban homes. You've done a lot of wrong to them. We've heard it even today: Parliament has set itself the goal of reprocessing and has taken the act of state as the first step towards the gesture of responsibility. We also discussed this bill in the Committee; it was also a question of having a hearing in which those concerned could present their amendments. Those who have been abused in homes of federal, state or church and have received a flat-rate compensation will receive a 300 € pension in the future, starting in July 2017, gross for net. In addition, those who have become victims in care families and boarding schools have the opportunity to apply now. There were also amendments that did not happen to social security schemes, but to the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the subject is dealt with sensitively. It should be an unbureaucratic body with the necessary sensitivity, for these people often did not even have the opportunity to talk about it in the families. That is why it is very important to us to be worthy. In this sense, I welcome this proposal for a law which takes responsibility for what has happened. However, we also want to take responsibility for our children in the future. These events are to be remembered daily, so that something like this never happens again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15450	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15471	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. If you were lucky yourself, as I did personally, to enjoy a protected and loving childhood – and I hope that my two children could offer that – then the descriptions we had to read and hear about the conditions that Austria had to exist are very difficult to digest. All these descriptions are personally close to me, because it is hardly possible to understand what happened to these children in Austria. I am not responsible from my point of view, but as a politician, we should first of all apologise for the fact that under state, ecclesial and urban supervision such a thing could happen in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You may have to emphasize one more thing: We are going to agree to this law, which, I believe, has come across quite clearly. We are also pleased that some things that were not quite right have been corrected in the course of the discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed. That is, we now have some content such as minimum security, valorization or topics like the nursing children in the law as well. Everything goes in the right direction, but it's important to me – I don't want to be sad about the mood – to lose some critical word in this regard. I would like to make one more clear reference to the figures: We are talking about 7 000 children affected, 7 000 children in Austria have experienced this, some of them very terrible things. We have now jointly decided that these persons receive a pension of €300 per month, which costs the Austrian taxpayers €8 million. I do not think that is enough – I have said it several times in the committee, and I do not think it is right here too – it should be at least twice as high. I would like to make a comparison – and I say this quite consciously, because this is a classic case for social policy; I think everyone outside understands that the state is taking control of it for money –: We now take over €8 million, and in parallel for the labour market and integration package for €20 000 eligible for asylum, €150 million, which is €900 per eligible for asylum, whereas in contrast it is €300 for these abused children. From my personal point of view, this is a social imbalance, and I must say it at this point. That means, I don't think it can stay with this €300. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are still a few things to be resolved at the federal level. Mr Steinhauser, I would ask you to intervene again at the Councillor of the Greens in Tyrol, Councillor Baur. In this matter, Tyrol, with 900 children affected, is unfortunately strongly represented by God disproportionately. The focus is actually in Vienna and Tyrol. In Tyrol, it has not been possible to abolish this limitation until today. It would be your green councillor Baur responsible for implementing this. There are still major discussions with those concerned. I have to say that, otherwise, in all other matters, Landesratin Baur is always on the scene quickly and with money and understanding, but in this case the understanding is still lacking. From our point of view, in principle: Victim protection in Austria would have to be much more enhanced than it is at present. Our and my impression is that victim protection is still not really appropriate for children. That means, I say that quite clearly: All the statistics I know show that it is not God's, unfortunately, that there has been a great change in society. This means that children are also being abused and abused today, and we as politicians and society need to look at them much stronger and more. Finally: The law helps those concerned, it is a first step, we also agree, but in our view a stronger social policy would have been quite appropriate in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15537	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Jarmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15559	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues and spectators at the gallery! This issue, which we are discussing here, is a very big and important concern to me personally, especially because I am deaf and have learned from many deaf people in the community that they have often suffered from violence and very, very bad. Many deaf people told me about earlier. And what you see in this context is that people have occurred and have brought it to the public. It is an important and good signal that, thanks to our President Doris Buresin Gang, this has also been set up and is now also signaled with this pension that we are taking this whole thing very seriously. I would like to thank the people concerned for being here and also for having had the courage to come here and address these things and not to keep them hidden from themselves. What has so far happened to these affected people is still happening today, namely violence against people. This € 1 million for the prevention that Mr Wöginger has addressed, which also needs to be able to report to these people. Often these people cannot express themselves or know where they can go or do not come into the buildings. It must be ensured that all people are allowed access, that access is made easy for people to express themselves in order to get to these centres and to communicate and to be able to say what has actually happened, whether this is in justice, at the police or elsewhere. And if you say they can make an emergency call, you have to remember that not all can really do that, and even if you install an emergency hotline, you have to consider how this can be made useful for all people. Social accessibility also means that more people can learn how to deal with these people in the institutions. Those concerned often find out that the situation is normal. These people must learn that this is not normal, but that they have a right to be protected and to be able to protect themselves. The police also need to be sensitized on this subject: How do you deal with these people? For example, how does communication with traumatized people, with people who are intellectually impaired? There is indeed a need for re-examination, including the executive. This is a very important concern to me, of course also communication in general. What do these people need to be affected? Do they need a special form of communication? It simply needs to be aware of this, and appropriate measures must also be taken in the prevention of what It is now being dealt with. I am pleased that all the parties agreed that they have decided to do so. However, I also ask that we continue to stick to this issue, even as far as de-institutionalisation is concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15604	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15625	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “Are so small souls, open and quite free. May one never be tormented, go broken.” – This lyrics by Bettina Wegner actually tell me all about the suffering of children and the resulting difficulties these victims of homes, nursing families and boarding schools have had in their lives, about the difficulties of talking about the suffering and also overcoming it, and about the difficulty of living a self-determined successful life. It was systematic violence that ruled, it was a system of violence, of looking away, of ignorance and, later, of non-fertility, of non-belief, of denial and obscurity – a system in which these children lived. I would like to express my pleasure that today we will adopt the Home-Sacrifice Pension Act unanimously. I am convinced that this is an important sign for the people who, as children, have been victims of homes, nursing families and boarding schools, both state and church. We can thus – and this has already been mentioned today – do not alleviate the suffering of these children, these people and, unfortunately, above all, do not excuse the actions, but we can assume our late responsibility as legislators and official Austria. This is what we are doing today, and I am very glad that I can take part in it. I too would like to express my thanks to Madam President Bures, with the "gesture of responsibility" she has made a very, very important contribution in order to give people a hearing, to give them our recognition and to express our respect and to give them room to share the experience. I would also like to thank Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, who introduced the law. I would like to thank all the experts who have pointed out suggestions for improvement in the hearing. And above all, I thank the people concerned for their courage, because in their courageous appearances they have pronounced the event and encouraged us all to look at it. Thank you all so much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today we have a legislative text that makes it very easy for the people concerned to come to this pension of €300. All those who have already received compensation simply need to report to a victim's office, and the pension is paid out, starting from 1. July 2017, also retroactive if you submit the application within 12 months. And in addition, all people who have not yet submitted a request – including those who live abroad – can apply to the public prosecutor’s office, where a commission has been set up, six experts accept the applications. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the Commission, will forward the applications to the PV carriers, and they will then pay the pension. If there are no pension benefits, this will be done through the Social Ministry service – a simple access that will allow people not to have to explain the events in detail again. The monthly pension is €300. She's being valorized, that's very important. It is unfoundable – that has already been addressed today. The pension benefit is also paid to those in need-oriented minimum insurance; it is not counted and is, as I said, not available. So these 300 € will really get these people, gross for net. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Even if this pension does not allow us to reverse what I have already said, I am convinced that today's decision makes a contribution to expressing our participation and respect to the victims and, above all, to the exercise of political responsibility. I am pleased that we will now decide unanimously in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15683	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15704	Mr President. Minister! High house! If one reads in the report of the city of Vienna what happened in the children's homes, what violence, what abuse, what humiliations and human denunciations have taken place, then this is a testimony to many injured souls that have resulted. And we are taking responsibility today through this sign that the Republic is setting, the Home Victim Pension Act. It's a very good law, it's been said a lot. 300 € per month should be available, including for victims of boarding and care families. What has happened to violence there is to be compensated. I would like to thank you for the hearing, there were very impressive reports from the experts. I would like to thank Waltraud Klasnic in particular, because she was the first one to take responsibility for the church to have many conversations with victims, and it was certainly not easy to create trust, which, however, she did well and also led to compensation from the church. Now, as a republic, we also have a sign. What's very important to me is prevention. I think this is very well removed from the public prosecutor's office, which is also reviewing in the framework of the OPCAT Convention restrictive measures carried out in individual situations. It is also very important to continue this de-institutionalization, to push back this structural violence that is created in homes and institutions, and to create small institutions in which violence is prevented as much as possible. The public prosecutorship is also active in the field of preventive measures, sets signs and creates structures. Finally, I would like to stress what is important to me, namely that the human dignity, which is the highest good that we have to defend in politics, is enshrined in the Constitution. The human dignity has not yet been anchored, but should lead us as the top principle of policy and also be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15743	Mr Hell has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15765	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated persons who attend our meeting today! I was really very touched and affected when I discussed this issue in preparation for the first committee meetings. Prior speakers have already pointed out that, hidden from the public, in many homes, inconceivable cases of violence and neglect have occurred. The causers could usually no longer be held accountable for, the crimes are not renunciated. Some 7,000 victims of homes have received a flat-rate compensation for their humiliations and mental and physical abuse. Today's decision is to introduce a pension scheme for victims of violence in homes and amend the crime victim law. My previous speakers have already pointed out many key points in this decision and summarized them. In addition to the points of the amendment and the motions for resolutions, I should like to stress a number of points. I think it was also important that the group of persons have been extended to the victims of care families, that there is a rule that need-oriented minimum guarantee providers can also benefit from these benefits and that there is no accountability for the need-oriented minimum guarantee and that this service is also indispensable. It is also important to me that the new regulation is set up in the public prosecutor's office a non-profitable pension commission. This Commission, under the leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office, will at least include representatives of victim assistance organisations. The Federal Government assumes the costs. The People's Procuratorate itself has been since 1. It is responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights on 1 July 2012. In 2015, the public prosecutor's commissions visited 78 WGs and residences for children and young people who cannot grow up with their families. As the last report points out – the current report will be discussed in this House in June – there is still a need for improvement and action today. Therefore, it will also be our common task to equip the public prosecutor with the appropriate human and financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, with the legal change to be decided today, the humiliation and emotional pain caused by the victims cannot be eliminated. However, we have tried to ensure a further, down-to-earth, unbureaucratic supply for those concerned. I would like to thank the many initiatives that have been put forward here by the victim organizations, by the committee chairman, Beppo Muchich, for their support, also to the Federal Minister and, above all, to our President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15808	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15829	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of home- sacrifice: I, too, must first of all thank you very much for the fact that it was at all possible to achieve such a result. Thank you very much for this! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mistreated children receive a monthly pension of 300 € from July onwards. Those who have been abused or abused in an institution of the federal, state or church and have received compensation from home-carriers will receive this additional benefit of €300 per month with retirement – a correct, necessary and human step. As we have already heard today, some 7,000 cases are assumed. But you also have to add – I think colleague Dietrich has mentioned it – that suffering and pain can never be dealt with, not financially. What these people have to go through is indescribable. When you imagine: a child in a home at that time, no help! You can't imagine what terrible fate these people, young people, children, had to experience! You also have to imagine, ladies and gentlemen – I think someone mentioned it earlier –: A child, a youth builds in a home because it has no parents, no care, a connection to someone and is then abused – that is simply inhumane and disgusting! This is urgently punished. Unfortunately, some people who have suffered do not live anymore. I think these 300 € a month are just a drop on the hot stone. God saves every human being from such a fate! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15875	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1525. Hiezu have Members Muchitsch, Wöginger, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Mr Dietrich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Mr Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment mentioned and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the said supplementary or amendment proposal contains constitutional provisions, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Muchitsch, Wöinger, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Mr Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Mr Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Mr Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is, in turn, unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Prolonged general condolences.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, Mag. Loacker, ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on the law on home-sacrifice pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 199.) [[15:26:57]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1516, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Ausländer Arbeitsgesetz and the General Social Security Act, as well as the Question No 693/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 20 November 1885 was adopted. March 1975, which regulates the employment of foreigners (Foreign Employment Act - AuslBG), as amended by the BGBl I 72/2013, is amended (1602 e.g.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1343/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues, on the taking into account the decision on Hartz IV to take account of the Austrian regulation on minimum security of demand (1598, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 740/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on access to the labour market for asylum seekers (1599 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 737/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on the abolition of the Bartenstein decree in terms of employment ban for asylum seekers and the creation of effective access to the labour market (1600 d.e.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 477/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on transparency in labour market promotion and training (1601, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16037	We now come to points 3 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Kickl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16064	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, let me express my pleasure at the fact that at the previous item on the agenda, something quite indicative, something very, very important has been put on the way here in this House. This is social policy, as we imagine it, and this shows that you can also be in the right direction, even if there is a need for improvement in many areas. I would be pleased if I could come to this conclusion on this item on the agenda, which we are now discussing. Unfortunately, this is not the case. I would perhaps like to start with a fundamental comment, because I hear the accusation, in particular from the Greens and the SPÖs, that this is a bit dependent on the day-to-day constitution and on the one who is talking about it, that freedom of the labour market policy is essentially concerned with this problem of immigration or with the problem of foreigners. I am now telling you something basic: If you or historians look back in 20 or 30 years on the time we are now living in, and if they make this somewhat objective, then they will see and note some trends, namely that at the beginning of this millennium certain components have significantly influenced the developments of society, the developments of our cohabitation. We have already talked a lot about an early process of erosion in the European Union – that will certainly be one of these components. There are others, however, such as immigration, international migration and increasing Islamization. This is one of the great chapters that we are faced with in Austria and in Europe at the beginning of this millennium. [[Follow-up calls from Mrs Schwentner and Mr Walser.]] When you deal with the matter with open eyes – and we do so in contrast to you, Mr Walser, because you are not only on the side of ideological scams, but obviously already in front of the eyes a bit hindered in your perspective – when you go through the world with your eyes open, you can not discuss that, I must tell you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] That is to say, you can do it, but then you end up in political marginalization, just as you are politically doing at the moment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is to say, we are dealing with this problem, and of course these things also have their negative side effects in relation to the labour market, whether you like it or not. I am very happy about your calls for call, so that the people who follow this debate will be aware of who is on which side in this debate. It's clear to us: The resource work, the resource money, that don't believe us the left ones, are in some way finally. [[Abg. Walser:...Austrian labour force! That's the problem!]] So we see policy in certain areas as being called for to deal with the issue of the distribution, management of these resources, and that is a crucial point. We see ourselves as Austrian representatives of the Freedom Party – we are not ashamed to be Austrian representatives of the Austrians – in a position in which it is about putting the interests of the Austrians first. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Walser: You do the opposite!]] That you're doing something completely different, they've all gotten along. Whether it's politically beneficial to you is on a different sheet, but one is also clear: It must not be allowed to act in this country, because it goes down the stream even faster than it goes down under this government. That's what we're seeing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something that you might not like to hear: This whole issue of immigration, this whole issue of foreigners' problems, does not only dominate essential parts of labour market policy. The whole of the education policy is overlaid by this problem, and the security policy is overlaid by this problem. [[Abg. Schwentner: Exactly, and that's why you have to take on a little more responsibility for the subject than you do!]] I don't understand how you can sit inside good conscience and put your head in the sand! Mr Sozialminister! A few days ago, we heard from you a few weeks ago, and we are also pleased that unemployment in Austria has fallen a little for the first time since a very, very long period; marginally, I would say, but nevertheless, because it has gone up too long. We've read this everywhere, you've also had a little medial party for it. It has become less loud then an interesting side-by-side aspect of this whole thing, and there I can quote the AMS board of directors John Kopf, who said: We still have quite a problem in the matter, and this problem means that we are sitting on a pretty mountain of unfinished asylum applications. When these asylum applications are completed, they are processed, and when it comes to decisions, then this delicate strawfire on the labour market is already gone again, because of course we are going to have an increase in unemployment again, and that is precisely in an area where we already have the most massive problems in the low-paid area. In the low wage segment, where the displacement is on the agenda, we continue to welcome the situation. This leads to a situation in which foreign unemployment is still very high and continues to rise – in contrast to the development of domestic unemployment – and this leads to a situation where the proportion of foreigners has already reached more than 40 percent of the number of participants in training. I do not know whether the meaning and purpose of our employment policy should be in Austria. You seem to see it this way, we see it a little differently. I was allowed to participate in a panel discussion a few days ago, Commissioner of the Greens, on the questions – you will certainly know – of work 4.0, industry 4.0, digitization and the consequences of this. This was very interesting, because there have been different opinions on many areas, but in one all experts agree: There will be a massive loss of jobs, precisely in the area of low-qualified ones, precisely in the area where we already have very massive difficulties. In this situation, you will therefore come with the Labour Market Integration Act. This is another measure that will strengthen the problem of displacement and the problem of wrong incentives being put on this whole issue of the labour market. For this, you take some €150 million per year. This is not a small sum compared with what we have spent on the people we have dealt with at the previous item on the agenda. With this money, which you take in your hands for 15 000 to 20 000 people, you do not fight unemployment, but create a new area of problem through a hole-to-hole policy, because if you've run through these people through this integration process and get a job, they're going to push others into unemployment again. For this, you will take in your hand 140 million € per year! The fact that you do this at all is an admission that all that you have explained to us in connection with the guardians who have come to us from all over the world, and their qualifications, has been largely drawn to the hair. I still have it in the ears when it's called, there are mainly highly qualified people coming. Now we are talking about very different programmes, programmes that are concerned with financing basic techniques at all. I therefore find this interesting, because on the other hand, for example with the AMS courses for the Austrians, we have started the savings fund. I therefore also think it is interesting that you do this because the Chamber of Labour is already telling you that you will not get this money, which is € 140 million a year is too little. I find this interesting, too, because you are now putting up with the AMS something in addition, although you know that the AMS is something like the burden of your wrong policy and is already suffering from the whole burden it has to deal with, just before the collapse. But the most important point in this whole matter is the fourth point, and that is the accusation we are making to you: This is another step in a direction where you continue a confusion. So far, you have confused asylum status or equated it with immigration. Asylum is protection on time, and we have always thought that there should actually be consensus that your efforts should be organized to enable these people to return to their country from which they came as quickly as possible, the reconstruction and the like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you're doing is going in a different direction. They are constantly working on the consolidation of these people. They are already like the status of the recognized asylumant with that of an immigrant. The first proof of this is the immediate possibility of entering the minimum guarantee once this asylum status has been acquired. The second proof is that, after six years, these people will get Austrian citizenship after a little bit, regardless of whether we want it in this form at all in Austria and whether we have a need at all. So it can't be like that! Now, however, go one step further: Asylum and immigration have already been the same, but now you are also like the asylum seekers with the recognised asylum seekers. This is the next step you are taking in this area. Now you are making up the programmes of the AMS not only for recognised asylum seekers, but also for asylum seekers. That means that this is being mixed more and more, and that is a step in the completely wrong direction. To do this, enter the term “high probability”: The high probability is now becoming a central component in the question of whether someone is allowed to participate in this programme. Therefore, asylum seekers who are highly likely to receive asylum status here in Austria can now participate in these programmes. They ask themselves: If the probability is so high that they get asylum status, then it has to be pretty fast with the asylum procedure, or am I cheating on it? I don't think I'm cheating, so you could actually wait for that. On the other hand, the question could also be asked: Then what are the others? What, then, are those who are involved in this expensive asylum procedure? Are these then which with a high degree of improbability to the recognition? Why do we do all of this? Then why don't we consistently go another way there? Then you have to think about it: What is a reason for the high likelihood that an asylum seekers will be taken up in Austria, so to speak? – There are two options: One is the place of origin by coming from certain war or crisis regions, and the second is the age by perhaps making yourself a little younger than you really are – the younger, the better. There are also corresponding answers to the question, which tell us quite clearly that in this area, when it comes to the indication of age, it is a lie that the beams bend. That's where you have to be careful. And you can only find that in an asylum procedure, but you want to abandon the asylum procedure now if there is a high probability. So somehow everything that is served in this area is piecework. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think we have to get to a way that you will consciously separate these things: The asylum seekers are not the recognised asylumant, the recognised asylumant is not the immigrant, and the immigrant is not the citizen. These are completely different things, and with you all this is like herb and beet. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Dietrich and Mr Hagen.]] You must make it difficult to access the social system! This is what Mr President-in-Office of the Council has just said. I don't think he knows what you decide here for the day. Either he doesn't know, or he's playing a wrong game out there in the public when he's talking about difficulties in accessing the social system, and he's putting you in the way of decisions that make exactly the opposite. [[Abg. Schwentner: Nowhere in the EU is access as difficult as in Austria! They tell the untruth!]] - No, no! The goal of dealing with these people must be to give them qualifications that help them where they come from to make a valuable contribution to the further development of their society, their society of origin, and not vice versa. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] You see that the figures explode, especially in red-green Vienna, which has minimum safeguards from all joints. [[Abg. Schwentner: Why? – Because you have prevented the existence of a uniform minimum guarantee throughout the country!]] I don't think she's been made for it. I'd just suggest going a new way, too. The asylum seekers are in basic care, they are largely treated with benefits in kind. Hit You will also take this path with the recognised asylum seekers. As long as a person does not find the entry into working life and pursues employment and acquires insurance periods and thus claims, he should remain in the basic supply. That is a reasonable approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As an Austrian, I must first also purchase insurance periods before I have entitlement to unemployment benefit et cetera. I think you're going in a wrong direction, and I'm putting that in particular before the ÖVP. I'm not going to throw it to you any less, because I know nothing else about you, but with the ÖVP there's already the problem that you're pretending to be driving a hard course on this question, and here, when it comes to concrete decisions, you're getting things going in exactly the opposite direction, and that's not honest. [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16221	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16243	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl! Today you have confused me something you will never create, because everything you have said here would concern the Labour Market Integration Act, but it is not being negotiated today, but we are talking about the Foreign Employment Act. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Employment Act is primarily a implementation of the EU directive for seasonal workers. It is currently true that according to the law currently in force, a harvester covered by § 5 of the Foreign Employment Act is only insured in health and accident insurance and is nowhere else, and this special scheme constitutes prohibited discrimination under the Seasonal Workers Directive and is now repealed by this new regulation, namely, at the end of the 30th century. June of this year. However, it remains quite clearly the restriction on tourism, agriculture and forestry, and the corresponding labour market audit remains. In addition, there are also a number of further innovations that are meant to regulate this area better and more precisely. The total duration of a seasonal egg is currently reduced from a maximum of 12 months within the last 14 months to a maximum of nine months within 12 months. The employment of regular seasonal eggs is only possible for a maximum of nine months, not as before ten months. Seasonal workers, who have already been employed in the last five years, are to be granted preference over new seasonals. And for approval, a local accommodation must now be proved, and special provisions for harvest workers in the ASVG are being repealed. These are to be included in full insurance with the new scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words about the opposition proposals on the agenda. A request has again been submitted which deals with restrictions on entry in certain sectors of the world of work. To this end, we must say: For persons from non-EU countries, a criteria-led immigration model shall be applied in accordance with the Directives of the Red and White Red Card. As you all know, migration is restricted to particularly skilled key workers, graduates and skilled workers in disability professions. This directive takes account of the level of training, professional experience and the desired professional activity already in immigration and takes account of the labour market situation in each individual admission. To say to EU citizens, Austria has so far fully exhausted the transitional periods for all new EU Member States, namely the seven years for workers' freedom of movement and for the posting of workers in certain sectors. The same applies to the last new member of Croatia, even for Croatia, the transitional period is expected to be fully exhausted. In addition, the Federal Government has taken many more measures to secure the domestic labour market. As you can see from the latest statistics, with much and great success. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why did the Federal Chancellor say that there is so much wage and social dumping?]] Among other things, the wage and social dumping law has also been created accompanying labour market promotion in 2011 and has now been innovativeised several times. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Federal Chancellor sees it differently! He said the opposite!]] As foreseen in the 2017/18 work programme, the Federal Government will therefore also work at EU level to reduce and limit labour migration. The aim is to use the labour market audit instrument, and only if there is no suitable unemployed person in Austria, can an open job be awarded without restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen! You see: The Federal Government and in particular our Social Minister Stöger are really very successful in stabilizing the Austrian labour market, and he should also express great thanks for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16298	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16320	Madam President. Minister! Dear viewers! Yes, unlike you, Mr Kickl, I am not a historian – although I am historically migrated – and I am not at all a historian who can look into the future and evaluate from the future what is now. I'm not a mathematician either, and I'm not a probability calculator at all. This has always been difficult for me, and in the case you mentioned, I would rather leave it to the competent authorities, in this case to the asylum authorities, because I believe that they can decide better than we do if anyone has a right to stay in Austria or not. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: These are also not mathematicians!]] But what I am: I am a politician, and in my understanding as a politician... – You do not have to evaluate it, but the voters, our voters. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A bad one!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's why you stagnate too!]] And I rely less on your judgment, but on what motivates me in terms of content. What motivates me in terms of content is to ensure the co-existence of people in Austria and to ensure that everyone who lives here on site is good, that everyone who lives here, for whatever reason they have come to us or have been born here, all those who – for whatever reason, but with legal status – live here, have also been born here or not... [[Abg. Kickl: For whatever reason!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: All women have to wear headcloth, Mrs. Schwentner, right?]] Please do not become polemic, because this only shows once again what understanding of politics you have. They're not interested in us living together in peace, that we're looking at problems together. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, we were able to do so at the previous item on the agenda. Exceptional! But I would also like to see this on other issues that are delicate, polarizing that we are looking together at what the problems are to find solutions. They never participate in it at all. On the contrary! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] They incite feelings and resentments, envy and despondent feelings in part, which do not help us to find common solutions. I am therefore pleased – I come to the point; we have several agenda items in this block – that students from third countries who have not had access to the labour market until now or only had limited access to the labour market, unlike many of their colleagues from EU countries, now during their studies – we discussed today in the morning, that many students unfortunately depend on work during their studies – have the same opportunities as all other students. That's what I'm looking forward to. That was a request we made on the initiative of our student organisation, the GRAS, three years ago. Fortunately, this is now being implemented. I refer to a second request, that of my colleague Alev Korun. I believe that the so-called Bartenstein decree is now simply no longer up-to-date, namely that asylum seekers who have been here for more than six months, that is, living here for half a year, are waiting for their asylum notice, only having extremely restricted access to the labour market. We support this proposal by NEOS, namely to allow these people access to the labour market as a whole, in addition to the use in the harvest or in exceptional cases in tourism. I do not think that people who are here for half a year and in many cases will remain here have access to the labour market. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know? You're not a historian!]] At the same time, they are the ones who criticize that people are not integrated, that they do not strive adequately enough to learn German. They prevent everything, but at the same time criticize every initiative to include people, bring them in, give them opportunities. I don't see any signals on your part. This also concerns the whole debate on minimum security, which concerns giving people, no matter what origin, many Austrians, opportunities to enter society, to ensure reintegration into the labour market, to education, to health, to all that people need, to contribute, whether they were born here or simply to live here, because they have legal residence here. In the interests of living together in Austria, I would like to ask you to make a constructive contribution, not just to stir up resentments, to inflame envy debates, and thus to create a very bad mood in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16464	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16485	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say once again: We are talking about an employment law, the foreign employment law. In particular, this is the red-and-white red card. I would like to hold on to the entrance: It is gratifying that we have a slight decline in unemployment, although at a high level, that must be said, but it also increases employment. Therefore, this is once a positive signal. Secondly, we all know, including our business visits, that we have a shortage of skilled workers in various sectors. The amendments to the Foreign Employment Act are now about qualified immigration particularly in those areas where it is needed by many companies. And that is why I see this amendment to the Red and White Red Card in the Foreign Employment Act as very positive, because it is a question of whether we can allow people to move from third countries to bring the necessary skills and finally to be used in the labour market. This is the difference between low-qualified people who do not have these qualifications and cannot de facto be accommodated on the labour market. These two parameters need to be kept apart in principle. That is why we say yes to the red-and-white red card change, but no, when it comes to deadlines for asylum seekers to allow them to have general access to the labour market. [[Abg. Kickl: There you are the best way there!]] This continues to be the subject of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do we change with the red and white red card? – We extend the period from 12 months to 24 months, Bachelor's studies are included. The permitted level of employment during the course of study is harmonised to 20 hours. This is also a necessary adaptation to practice. Own rules for start-ups will be created. The condition is a capital of €50 000, half of which must be equity. Then, as a start-up founder, you are able to create a start-up company in Austria via the red-and-white red card. It also amends the minimum number of points required in the case of occupations. Here a corresponding appreciation for professional experience and language skills is carried out, which is especially highlighted. And it will change the seasonal arrangement, especially in the fields of agriculture and tourism. It is necessary that we change the seasonal arrangement. It's about a maximum of nine months when people come back to us. Those who have been active as seasonal kidneys here are treated preferably. These are the key points that we amend in the Foreign Employment Act in the field of the Red and White Red Card, and we see these as very positive from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I have a reading exercise, I propose a comprehensive amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the amendment which is very comprehensive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links==* Official website October 2017 because there are cross-references to the foreign rights change package. The second is: It is about data transmission to statistics. And the third thing is: We postpone the monthly contribution base report and start a test run at the main association from 2018 onwards. These are the essential points of this amendment. I am seeking agreement on qualified immigration in our labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16592	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16747	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16768	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger had to read a long request because we were only Since early today know that this is obviously not different – with such a far-sighted view, the government is planning legal measures! So, as has already been mentioned, it is about foreign employment. And in this sense I would like to take a look at the labour market policy of this government as a whole, because Foreign Minister Kurz und Sozialminister Stöger always declare “foreigners” guilty for all that is going wrong with us on the labour market. The fact that it is not “the foreigners ” in this package is obvious. The Minister for State Planning would like to put 20 000 older unemployed in the municipalities with his job creation measure. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] There are 20 000 jobs without work. At the same time, however, we have a record number of open jobs in the Austrian labour market, which cannot be occupied. It'll leave you cold. The unemployed will not be qualified to adapt to these bodies, nor will there be any incentives to qualify themselves in order to be able to take over such bodies. Instead, mobility on the European labour market is restricted, and freedom of movement of workers is restricted. It will be even more difficult to occupy open jobs if people cannot be recruited freely within the EU. That is what this Federal Government is doing, for example, proposing a labour market audit before you can hire an EU citizen in Austria. In connection with the restriction of social security benefits, the Foreign Minister makes the wrong claim that EU citizens could obtain social security benefits from the first day – the wrong claim, as I say again. And then – that is the area – on the economic side comes an employment bonus, which is obviously illegal in Europe. That's what a blind man sees with a wrench stick. However, this government tries to implement this and ignores that it could immediately close the tourist destinations in Austria without the EU citizens working there – without the Hungarians and without the Germans working in Bad Ischl, in Lech am Arlberg, in St. Anton, in Ischgl. The industry that works near the border with Germany could be locked up without the German workers, but they are harming their eyes. The changes in the red and white red card are a mistake. None of the bureaucratic regulations will be withdrawn, none of the long procedural periods will be shortened. It is not affected, however, that we have unqualified immigration via the red and white red card plus, which is actually a red and white red card, because you have nothing to do with it. The Austrian form of implementation of the ICT Directive is a disgrace for the economic location you are consciously damaging. The Social Minister now has an authorisation to regulate by means of a regulation how many managers of international companies may change across borders. So the Ministry of Social Affairs knows better what the international companies that work in Austria need. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All this has nothing to do with efficiency, it has nothing to do with productivity, it has nothing to do with a social market economy. It is simply socialist indifference, and the ÖVP carries it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16829	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16852	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr. Kickl, do you know what happens when you go through the world with your eyes open? – It is thought that it is colorful, especially in spring, of course. If you look at these days on television travel journals, for example reports on cruises, you can see that the chefs come from Austria relatively often. I think we are all proud that experts from Austria are in demand worldwide. I come from Steyr, and there, former graduates of the HTL have made it possible for students of the HTL to complete their internships in the USA, India, in China. It is an absolute enrichment for young people to gather international experience and make internships in a different environment. In Schiedlberg near Steyr there is a company that deals with brain research. It is absolutely innovative and creative, and Mr Mayor, who is also sitting in this House, is rightly proud of this company. Among other things, she has offices in Graz and Barcelona, recently also in New York, and plans to expand in the East. If we look at the ICT directive now, this is something that we want to make it possible for international corporations to exchange their expertise so that people from group locations outside Europe can come to us for trainee programs here. In order for an exchange to take place so that managing directors can also come to us from other areas, we also provide rules. We see it's not a one-way street. Just as many Austrians, of course, go out into the wide world, with their experience there also ensuring the continuation of the Austrian economy, it is of course also important that there is the possibility for the international Group locations in other countries to have experts come to us. Of course, we need rules to do this. You're right, Gerald, in a paragraph we have arranged for the Social Minister to be authorized to adopt quotas. The reason is that in the past, of course, we also saw that well meant doesn't always mean well done. The expectation is that through trainee programs specialists and managers come to Austria. If we insist that this is perhaps a back door to also conduct wage and social dumping, then we will have to discuss quotas. However, that is not the objective of this regulation. The aim is exactly what I have described: to create opportunities for our domestic industry in a globalised world, but also for our local experts and managers, because, as has been said, in our globalized world, there should be opportunities and rights for all, for our domestic workers, but also for others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Very hesitant, the applause, but does nothing!]] To conclude, another aspect: It has been criticized that the response to the request is insufficient. In this context, I would like to say that it is important – and should always be of value to us Members – that Parliament's control rights are not restricted, but we should always point out that rights are also linked to obligations and responsibilities. That means: If we constantly demand red tape here in the House, say that all this is overwhelming and a bureaucratic insanity, then we should also consider what bureaucratic effort we are making with our requests. That is why, in addition to the criticism expressed about dealing with the response, it is perhaps also important to address the criticism to itself and to ask whether the questions raised are perhaps not sometimes too comprehensive and sometimes only suitable to create bureaucracy. Because, as I said, If you have rights, you should really deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16895	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16916	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For us, differentiation between asylum seekers and asylum-seekers is absolutely important, because if we are equalizing an asylum-seekers to an asylum-seekers, I wonder what we need the expensive asylum procedures for. Then that means: Come in, the labour market is open, access to the social pot is open – all without restrictions! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is particularly important to us, and therefore we will not support Mr Loacker's request, which automatically wishes access to the labour market for an asylum seekers after nine months' stay. We have another access. First of all, an asylum procedure must not take nine months at all. This has to be handled quickly and quickly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible to have a 48-hour rapid procedure in Switzerland and to do so in Austria for nine months, twelve months and more? That's the system, too. I think there's a few people who deserve it very well and don't want it to go faster. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Even in the labour market integration law – which we do not negotiate today – there is also a vague demarcation. There, too, one wants to mix the whole thing again, because one does not want to wait for decisions, because one does not want to go through laws that one has given oneself. One simply wants to wink the whole thing, with as little attention as possible, so that as many as possible come in. I tell you that what happened in 2015 is absolutely irresponsible. The head of the AMS meant that it would be pure utopia if we believed that integration would take place so quickly and that we could quickly integrate those who came to us into the labour market. We have seen what level of education immigrants – I say now – have in part, and poor education today means unemployment tomorrow. Industry 4.0 tells us that low qualification will be a problem in the future, and we must not miss this fact either. Ladies and gentlemen, one point I would like to address is the ECJ judgment on Hartz IV: In 2010, a 25-year-old Romanian, Elizabetha Dano, emigrated to Germany together with her five-year-old son. She moved to Leipzig to visit her sister, where she sought Hartz IV. This was rejected on the grounds that it had never seriously tried to obtain a job, had bad language skills, so it would not be possible to allow pure immigration into the social system and therefore the application. The German court then informed the ECJ whether this is really in conformity with the law. The ECJ has said that entitlements to social benefits are not automatic. This means that the claims have to be acquired first, first you have to pay into the system so that you can get something out of the system in future. [[Abg. Schwentner: No, that's not true!]] This means that even those who would actually be our co-founders in a common European Union do not have immediate access to the social system. I see in us a strong disparity. Now, when refugees come to us, they immediately have access via basic care, if they are then recognised refugees, they come to minimum security; that is, they have access immediately. [[Abg. Schwentner: No, that's not so!]] The ECJ says that immigration into the social system is not all right. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to do so, just since the European Union has expanded, the prosperity gap has increased. There are many people who want to come to a more developed social state, and we have to put the bar on it to protect our own people. Ladies and gentlemen, those who dream that we will create a social union à la longue I can only give a clear rejection. A social union would always be a transfer union in which the richer states would send money towards poorer states. We have poor in Austria, I think, already enough, we need to look at our own population. A social union would also mean the same standards, such as wage-side costs. Explain to me how in Romania or Bulgaria there are the same standards, the same high cost of pay as in Austria! They will never and never compete. That means that this would be to our detriment and also to the harm of these poorer developed economies. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is therefore important to prevent immigration into the social system and to look at our own people so that our people can do well.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16993	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17014	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With the Foreign Employment Act, we set various accents today, which take very care that the labour market gets what it needs. It is even more important, however, that employees in the Austrian labour market receive what they need, namely, control and protection – which they need – fair and equal conditions and prevention of wage and social dumping. On the other hand, we also need highly qualified people from third countries, who also work here with us and also create jobs. I am glad that the labour market is starting to recover very slowly – I would rather faster. This is also the result of the consistent work that the Federal Government is doing in this matter. We have adopted a new regulation for seasonal eggs from third countries. Our access rules remain, but we provide for a positive labour market review to allow employment to be started in Austria. We have especially made ourselves strong at the seasonal kidneys for making it easier for people who were there in a previous season to come back to us. We are currently supporting the businesses in the gastronomy, which know the processes and the processes. We have assured the harvesters that they will also be pension insurance from 2019 onwards, since we have adopted a European regulation. We have also ensured for agriculture that there is no competitive situation with foreign countries. We will allow and ensure the unbureaucratic implementation of Group broadcasts – MP Vogl has done this very well – so that Austria's internationality is also safeguarded. What do we do for the students? – We ensure that students from abroad can also work part-time in Austria to contribute to their studies. However, we also ensure that people who have graduated in Austria also have the opportunity to look for a job here. We have expanded and introduced the red and white red card for start-up companies. Christian Kern wrote this into his plan A. We will now implement it, and I would also ask you to give your consent. Mrs Dietrich, a social union, is a Union that continues the European Community and its people in Europe. A social union is not a transfer union, and precisely on the day when the European Commission has put the strengthening of social rights on the agenda, precisely on that day we are dealing with it, we must note that people need protection and security, just as we did today as a point of discussion. People in Europe need security, and security is given if we have social balance, social security and if we pursue a policy in Europe that allows all European countries to have the opportunity to develop their countries. Mr Loacker, I have to say this because otherwise it will tear me: I have never said anything in the direction that I blame any foreigner for the situation on the labour market. It's important to me to point this out. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You're a little on the right, Minister!]] I also believe that free movement of workers is an important value in Europe. We must protect this free movement of workers. We protect them by keeping working conditions in the same way in all countries, we protect them by not allowing wage and social dumping through different wage levels in the countries, and we protect free movement of workers by fighting against wage differences in the countries. In this sense, I believe it is necessary that we in the European Union strengthen the social pillar. This is also an important function in countries with higher contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17054	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17077	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The internationalisation of the Austrian economy is progressing. More and more entrepreneurs are finding their sales market abroad, in the EU, but also in third countries, and more and more entrepreneurs are setting up subsidiaries there, or are also creating more and more foreign entrepreneurs, including third countries, companies here in Austria. With the Foreign Employment Act, we are trying to adapt the labour market to this internationalization, because work is not carried out by legal persons but by the underlying natural persons, and in the context of internationalization, we often need some international staff. The rules we are changing here today are rules on the Red and White Red Card. The Red and White Red Card has been introduced and is already a very good model in many areas to bring international movement of qualified forces to Austria. The minimum wage regime and the minimum criteria remain largely unaffected, but we have set ourselves some priorities that are being implemented here. It is especially worth mentioning for me that we are trying to locate and establish start-ups and young founders in Austria. Everyone looks really excited into the Silicon Valley and where else what's going on. There are not only Americans working there. There, employees and, above all, companies from all over the world, including Austria, are working there with their new products. With this regulation that young entrepreneurs and start-ups are also included in the red-and-white red card, we create the possibility that we can take a step in the right, international direction. Not all of them are concerned about innovative products, services and processes. It's about reasonable business plans that have to be there. It is about the fact that this person really has to exercise personal influence in society. It's about minimum capital that has to be there. It is also about a catalogue of criteria to be fulfilled. This catalogue is on the one hand a mixture of criteria with regard to education, experience, language knowledge and capital. However, it also refers to where this company operates, whether it is operating in an incubator centre, so that we can also form such conglomerates so that the founding, the start-up scene is driven forward. It is equally important that the foreign students who make a bachelor here are given the opportunity to work here, and that they are also included in the red and white red card. We give them know-how, and we want the state of Austria to have at least the chance to get something back from this know-how. This is only possible if you allow them to work here as well. The internal transfers within the Group – Mr Vogl has mentioned it – are also an important step towards establishing Austria as a gateway to the global economy; this step has been taken so that we can accommodate it. Last point: Cross-border labour transfers will also be regulated, equality or improvement of Austrian labour market. Lending firms achieve a transitional requirement, i.e. a control body. Today we decide with this law something very good for the Austrian economic location. We set up a good law; we support internationalization; we get the know-how of the students who have studied in Austria for Austria; we improve the situation in rental work; and we also secure seasonal workers without putting pressure on our agriculture because we are pioneers. All in all: This law is a good law for the Austrian economic location and is to be supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17142	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17163	Madam President. Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to welcome a group of visitors from Tyrol, from the beautiful district of Schwaz. Welcome to Parliament! [[General condolences.]] To replicate the previous speakers, first to Mrs Schwentner: Mrs Schwentner, you certainly don't have to be a mathematician here in Parliament, but you should be able to count. This is necessary, especially in this area. If the NEOS and the Greens can't count, it's less bad. It's bad for me – and I see it more and more – when red and black have learned the basic accounting methods, because in the social field, you only need to count one and one thing together. Perhaps also very briefly to colleagues Wöginger: I understand your intentions to make this clear to the academics. But I would remind you: If you would read down to the bottom of the AMS statistics every month, you would find a column that has been and is growing in the bidigital range for months, the value being between 12 and 18 percent per month. The group of academics is now a large group. That means, in the AMS statistics, we actually have two conspicuous groups: One is the group of foreigners and the other the group of academics. That is why I would rethink your proposal or your law regarding academics. Let's just get to the real topic: Social security, minimum level of protection, labour market. I have said it several times, and other colleagues from the liberals have also said it: The social system in Austria is powerful like an emperor's mammoth and cannot be financed! If one were to control the basic accounting modes, it would be relatively simple: Social rate almost 30 percent, 100 billion € per year are spent in this area in Austria. In old currency – who still knows the schilling –: 1.4 Billions of schilling every year! A few more figures – I have to repeat them because they are obviously still not quite sent through by colleagues here –: almost half a million unemployed, depending on the season; 340 000 persons in minimum security; 190 000 persons in emergency; 80 000 asylum seekers in basic care. Mr Muchitsch, even if you do not like the figures, they will vote so. I have not yet been able to prove to me any other numbers or to prove that my numbers are not right. Maybe also very briefly: We still operate on the official figures of Minister Stöger with figures from 2015. But we are already writing soon May 2017! On the subject of minimum security, I would like to say once again: In Sunday's speeches, especially by the ÖVP, it is now recognised that we have a massive financial problem. Minimum security costs taxpayers about €3 billion a year. However, I do not see anything in real policy at the ÖVP, except in Sunday's speeches, because there is in reality no real change in this direction. There are some federal states that are trying to adapt something, Upper Austria or also the Burgenland, but of course the federal states cannot solve this issue, but here in Parliament we already have to decide the laws in such a way that we can actually achieve a cost reduction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] What is very important to me when we look at the statistics of the federal states: I've been referring the numbers a few times, especially from Tyrol. In Carinthia, the data are not even statistically collected! They distinguish in Carinthia only between male and female. The fact that some time the Minister gets a problem from the material of numbers is clear to me. Only, Minister, you mustn't look at it! Only because the national system of minimum security has failed can we not pretend that the problem would resolve itself. In five years, the number of minimum insurance providers has doubled: from nearly 180 000 to 340 000! That's a number, as I said, that month-by-month increase. 90 percent of the countries entitled to asylum are in minimum security. Nor do these values come from me, they come from the AMS itself. Mr Loacker, because you have been trying for years to make a change in the work permit in the area of asylum seekers – I have already explained it to you several times – and also for the Greens to recall: The Bartenstein decree would also allow qualified asylum seekers sufficient opportunities to work – in the business sector, in the professions, in the apprenticeships and, and, and. That would be if asylum seekers were qualified, but they were not. This shows all the numbers we have, including the AMS: 30 percent illiteracy! How do you even want to rise on the labour market with such people as asylum seekers? We have the problem that asylum seekers are not allowed to reside in the labour market. This issue is also not invented by me or by the liberals, which is all relatively transparent – it does not even deny the Minister. Close your eyes and hope that the problem, Mrs Schwentner, would somehow resolve, and we all have to be very nice with each other, is not what the people want to hear outside because the people outside fight their daily struggle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Austrians are fighting their daily struggles, there is a brutal labour market displacement competition, especially in the under-qualified, and especially in the women's sector, Mrs Schwentner! There was once a women's policy of the Greens, many years ago; they gave you up completely. Women in particular suffer very, very much from this situation in the labour market. These are things you can read and research and they're just the way they are, Mrs Schwentner. By putting the head in the sand and talking together the beautiful world, the problem is not solved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to ensure the minimum level of security, I may also have to repeat the following: The amounts that are communicated over and over again and that are also in reality voting are net amounts! In other words, if in Tyrol and Vorarlberg a Individuals according to the Court of Auditors report receive on average 1 150 €, then that means 1 150 € net. Now ask an employee who is 40 hours working, what he needs to earn grossly, so that he can get 1 150 €! The people outside really have it from this situation simply – I deliberately say it very hard – up here full. But in Parliament, red, black, green and NEOS come from nothing but to continue writing and speaking beautifully, but not to take note of the figures and facts. Again the short version to the end: We are very clear about social benefits for Austrian citizens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also a very clear, clear statement on social benefits: Everything that is paid in the social pot of Austrians on taxes and other things has to be there exclusively for Austrian citizens in the final consequence. I have also mentioned it several times: This does not even contradict EU law, which could be agreed with existing EU law. Mr Loacker, please just ask Mrs Berger to inquire of the EU Court of Justice, that is clear. You must not differentiate in insurance, Mr Loacker, but in the case of social benefits you may very well distinguish between EU citizens and citizens. I can only call on you once again, for a time: Please take note here in the House of the figures and facts, because they are getting worse from month to month! It will be nothing better, quite the contrary, and solving the problems of solving them peacefully will be more difficult from month to month! I really urge you to wake up at last, especially the ÖVP. I ask you not only to make announcements in Sunday's speeches, but really to address things at the root in the legislation here in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17284	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17306	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate listeners! What is the topic that is most concerned with us by Austrians? – Since today, a survey by GfK has just been published, and that is what it says: The integration of refugees and migrants is the issue of number one, even before pensions, before taxes, especially others. How do we deal with people who come to us from other countries? Who can work? How can people who want to stay with us who are looking for asylum or who have already been granted it make use of us? – These are the crucial issues for our society, for cohesion and for social peace. Two applications, one of the Greens and one of the NEOS, deal with access to the labour market for asylum seekers. To this end, we have access: We in the government parties are convinced that we have already found a useful way to do this, and we want to decide here in the National Council shortly. So we're not gonna put our heads in the sand, Mr. Wurm. Our way looks like this [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] It can't be that young men stand around in the parks and have nothing to do. We want an earlier integration of refugees, and that is why we also want people to learn German earlier and look around the labour market. A complete integration package is planned, including a mandatory integration year. [[Abg. Hauser: This is not...!]] Target group are asylum-seekers, eligible persons and also – exactly! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: asylum seekers with good view!]] – asylum seekers with a view to a positive asylum notice. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, great! You can be proud of it!]] - Yes, why? What's the goal? – The objective is that these people can take a foothold on the labour market at an early stage, and we must allow them the necessary language and professional qualifications. In addition, further measures will follow, on the initiative of Foreign Minister Kurz, in the planned Integration Act. The starting points are: German and value courses are expanded. If you want to live with us, you have to be German. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Whoever wants to live with us must know our values, and he must accept these values. Mr. colleague, the big objective of this effort is that refugees who receive asylum from us do not fall into the minimum guarantee that it is not the same as it is now that 90 percent of asylum seekers receive minimum security. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Then at least my numbers are right!]] That is what we want to prevent in the future! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] We will have to do much more in the future than before. Statistics show how large the pressure of action is. Quite right: In Austria, the number of asylum and protection seekers reported as unemployed rose by 33 percent in January compared with the previous year to almost 30 000 persons. That means: Counter-taxes! That is what we want to do, and that is why we are in favour of an earlier, better integration of refugees. Because, and this is the essential thing that will benefit all those involved and all generations. [[Abg. Hauser: That means everyone who comes may...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17419	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17456	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear citizens! My colleague Gerald Loacker has already explained why we cannot agree to this amendment. I would like to briefly explain why this proposal can lead to less competitiveness. Two points I have taken out are the start-ups and the ICT directive. A change of the red and white red card is of course a good thing and would be a great opportunity to bring more start-ups to Austria. But what was tried with this novelle – and I deliberately call it an attempt – will not lead to success, as the novelles and the conditions are far too bureaucratic and there are too many conditions that will safely deter the founders. You don't need to look at Silicon Valley either, you just have to look at the rules that exist in England and also in Germany. Berlin and London are hotspots of the start-up scene, and with what we have in the novelle, we will unfortunately not be able to hop with it. The second point I would like to highlight is the following: In the implementation of the ICT Directive, require that the Minister of Social Affairs is authorised to limit the number of intra-company transfers of employees. As one who works in an international company, it is not understandable to me, which is why this has been so restrictive and, in my opinion, has been planned. They thus make the location for international companies – in addition to the high taxes – even more unattractive. It will prevent international companies from investing here, because if they are not sure that they can send employees to Austria, if necessary, no HR departments, no Strategy Departments and certainly no CEOs will give their sign-off to invest here. I think I can say in summary: We won't create jobs like this. I would be very pleased – and would like it – if this novelle could be revised again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17495	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17517	Madam President. The Minister is just talking. Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 3 to 7 cover all work and social matters. The topic of red and white red card I have looked closely at. Access for highly qualified persons to the Austrian labour market should be more regulated or optimised. There should be some relief for foreign students. Among the innovations is also the extension of the red and white red card from twelve to 24 months. Only after this period of time does the employee receive a so-called red-and-white red card plus for unlimited access to the labour market. The criteria for skilled workers in disadvantaged occupations also apply. Vocational experience and language skills are to be upgraded. In the future, seasonal kidneys may only be employed in Austria for nine months in a year, up to a maximum of six months, as in the past. Anyone who has already been employed as a seasonal force should preferably be admitted. It is also necessary to abolish the special arrangements for harvest workers. These will not only be insured as in the past, but will also receive pension insurance from 2019 – Mr. colleague, you know that very well. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to stress one thing – I think Mr Kickl has also mentioned this: In this subject, everything is simply mixed – asylum, refugees, immigration – and is to come out as skilled workers. Mr Wurm has also referred to it, which is a development that will not succeed, but above all the difficulty of dealing with it in the future is increasing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17553	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17574	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The topic of access to the labour market for asylum seekers: It is well-known that Austria's labour market is one of the largest in the world. continuing high unemployment rates. A foreign request from NEOS refers to the fulfilment of EU Directive 2013/33/EU which requires access to the labour market within nine months of the entry into force of the application for international protection. The application was submitted at a time when the problem of the wave of refugees did not appear to this extent for Austria. In the meantime, however, a mass migration of forward-looking economic refugees needs to be mentioned. Asylum is in no case a right of duration, so that asylum seekers are not entitled to a right to long-term employment. It is in line with the fact that a permanent job is a key factor for sustainable integration in addition to education. However, it should be taken into account that, in addition to linguistic problems, asylum seekers have far-reaching training deficits and therefore have to cope with significant job deficits by the service provider. The Austrian Federal Government has already put in place substantial measures to integrate refugees, which are not, however, accepted by some of the migrants. If the EU now calls for an employment obligation on the part of the domestic economy, reference should be made to the continuing failure of the European Union in relation to the refugee problem in general. If the social-democratic trade unionist now assumes that asylum seekers are forced into illegal work without a fixed employment relationship, these trade unionists must remember that they primarily have to represent and protect the interests of domestic workers. In accordance with the motto: Austria, first!, is therefore not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17614	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17635	Madam President. Minister! High house! I refer to Mr Loacker's request for work authorisation for asylum seekers. This is also about so-called social justice, humanity and spending. However, it is always a very important issue, which Christians in this country are constantly hoarding around their ears, namely, love of neighbor. It is especially the left who always have specialists to explain to us Christians how charity has to work, namely that it is supposed to be fully valid and even throughout the world and everyone is to be welcomed with charity. – That’s definitely not true! I can quote a famous Vienna theologian, moral theologian, Professor Prelat Hörmann, who also published the “Lexikon of Christian Morals”; it is worth reading in it. He wrote the following quote for charity: “This leaves him” – to man – “nothing else but to make a wise choice for [...] the love of neighbor, for example according to his commitment, according to the rank of values – well noticed, according to the rank of values! - according to the size of the emergency. When someone is in distress, it pushes the helper to help him who is closest to him. - Quote. This clearly explains that, of course, we have the duty to love neighbor, both as Christians and as people, that is clear. But we also have the right and even the duty to choose whom we help, whom we let into the country, whom we give a work permit, who gets asylum with us and who is to stay in Austria. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] First of all, we are committed to the neighbor in Austria and no one else. Everything else derives from this commandment and from this law. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The dignity of man is untouchable! That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There you can come with human rights or with any other positive legal expression, it is about the right here in principle in the place Austria, and that is the natural right of the nation and the natural right of the Austrian citizen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the fact that the citizens also see with their house mind, without having to be a lawyer. We do not need to believe that, with some artificial constructions relating to asylum seekers and job creation for this et cetera, we can overrule natural rights, fundamental rights and charity. I can't. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] You just need to read, you just need to talk to the people. The citizen's house mind will show it to you during the next elections, because then you are chosen if you continue with your philosophy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17711	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Ausländerbehördegesetz and the General Social Security Act in 1602 of the Supplements. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Members of the Muchitsch, Wöginger, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment concerning Article 1 and Article 2. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1598 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1599 of the supplements. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1600 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1601 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:50:02]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1589, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Wage- and Social-Dumping-Law and the Anti-Fraud Act (1603 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1827/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Chamber of Workers' Act 1992 (1605 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Chambers of Workers and Workers and the Federal Chamber of Workers and Workers (Law of Workers 1992 – AKG) (1606 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the 1997/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on the abolition of the compensation allowance for foreign pensioners (1607, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17876	We now come to points 8 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17904	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister, it's a shame that you're calling, because it would be quite exciting right now. It is now about the wage and social dumping control law as well as the social fraud control law. The amendment will facilitate the transport of goods and passengers. I would like to say a few general things about this wage and social dumping law. The issue has already been tried several times today, and it started in the early days with the Federal Chancellor, who complained about how much wage and social dumping is being done. This is a problem that we are aware of at the latest since 2011. At that time, a wage and social dumping law was also passed here for the first time. From the first day on, we have criticized this law because it does not really take effect. At regular intervals, whenever we debate here, we encounter the problem of wage and social dumping. A few months ago, there was a big TV contribution: Forest workers from the east even had to sleep in the forest in the tent, they could not even afford accommodation because they were not properly paid. Wage and social dumping is taking place on a massive scale. All your novels will not change that. Mr Minister, I have already told you several times: Novels will not change anything because you do not have the opportunity to see in any way whether social benefits are even paid for these workers from the eastern states in particular. You have no idea, and you have no means of control either. That's a very big problem. Mr. Federal Minister – you are already here! –, interesting to me would be the following: In your new government agreement, which you, ÖVP and SPÖ, have concluded in January, you have set a timetable. Now we have learned from the media that this timetable has already been thrown over the pile again, you are already in arrears. One of the points in this programme was that you would like to write a letter to Brussels by March 2017 at the latest concerning a post-negotiation of the Send Directive. Now it would be interesting to know if you already sent the letter. If yes: Did you ever get an answer? You are always in Brussels anyway, perhaps you have already been told something about whether the letter was poorly formulated, whether it was well formulated, whether or not it is being negotiated at some point. The aim of this directive was, of course, to compensate for the labour force. The idea behind it was originally a good one. But it has been seen that this is a one-way road – that is the problem of the European Union, of neoliberalism that exists there –: Of those countries where wage conditions are very poor, where there is a high level of unemployment, and especially the countries in the East, labour has gone towards the so-called old EU countries. This is a development which, moreover, is very terrible for the regions there, because the regions are not being revived, families are being torn apart. Women often go to Austria to work in the care sector, men work in Austria in the construction industry or in other areas. This is a good thing for the EU to buy. At the previous item on the agenda, we discussed the red-and-white red card. Mr Wöginger said that we need qualified immigration from third countries. You ask yourself the following question: We have this large European area with freedom of establishment and we are unable to find enough qualified workers within this Europe. - Something's going wrong! Now you can't pretend everything's good, sweet, nice and beautiful. It's not that! Mr Minister, with every change in this wage and social dumping law, you make it more difficult for the domestic economy because the bureaucracy is becoming even more excessive. But those you want to meet, namely the companies that come here and conduct wage and social dumping, you do not meet with this law. They do not meet companies that do not socialise their workers in their home countries. They may pay the local wages on the paper, but as soon as the workers cross the border on the weekend, they will have to return half of them. These are facts! And you don't meet these companies with this law! That's the problem, and you can't stop wage and social dumping at all, because those companies that don't want to stick to it always find a way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore necessary to introduce the deduction of social security in the country concerned, in this case in Austria. Before you do not enforce this at European level, you no longer need to think about it and discuss it that you will achieve some improvement in wage and social dumping. That definitely doesn't work. Mr. Federal Minister, it is not true that only bad companies, only companies operating social dumping, come from the East. Two or three weeks ago, however, all Members of this House were given a black role, which looked like the packaging of a whisky bottle. What was in there? – So to speak, the funeral of the last companies in the construction sector. They say they just can't, they don't have a chance anymore. I assume you know that, too. Maybe you got it. With us, the construction industry is no longer able to work competitively. Go through Burgenland villages! You can only see Hungarian cars working there. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: cars that work!]] That can't be what you want! That's why you finally have to put a bar on it. If the EU then informs you: No, we don't, we're sorry, you have to take note of it! Then you have to take a step that may be unorthodox. We cannot always take note of everything and say: Well, that's all right, sorry. – This is the wrong way, Minister! You have to put a sign at last! They must also occur in the EU. If you stand up and say that we would like to discuss it, then stay alone and say: Okay, I just stayed alone, then you won't bring it to a solution. Don't be angry, Minister: They made themselves here earlier, beamed and said: Unemployment has fallen, which is so encouraging. – Yes, Federal Minister, it has fallen by 0.1 percent. That's gratifying, that's good, that's the right way. It's just not sustainable. It was now the first time unemployment has fallen a little. Talking about a turnaround is already a bit bold of you, Minister. They are the competent Minister of Labour and cannot be satisfied with it either. This cannot cause the great joy either. By the way, the many tricks you decided in January may also have an impact. You have removed a very large group, namely the so-called problem cases, from unemployment statistics. All of this, of course, works, and it means: Trust no statistics! I'll tell you: Unemployment is still high, far too high. Even if it is 0.1 percent less, it is not really a great success to build on. It will therefore be necessary for you to do something at last and to enforce yourself in Brussels. We also do not need a red and white red card for qualified immigration from third countries. Let us finally qualify our own people and those people who are already in the country! With this, we know that God has a lot of work to do and enough to do. We could then integrate these people into the work process. But you really have the impression that you're not interested in everything. They're gonna let it run. You sit down, and if there's a place out there, then we'll get you one. – This is the wrong way, Minister of State! We demand It's on: Finally, do something in the field of the Entrepreneurship Directive! Please also clarify to Parliament whether you have received an answer from Brussels and, if so, what kind of answer this was!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17948	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e17970	Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, it's incredible how to talk for 5 minutes and can't even refer to Agenda item 8 for 20 seconds. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you mean the Federal Chancellor?]] It was only 18 seconds, so that was incredible, and still these debt allocations towards the Minister of Social Affairs! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, he is the competent!]] If you had been there yesterday in the debate with the Director-General of the European Commission for Employment, Labour Market and Integration – Mr Neubauer was there, Mr Lintl of FPÖ – you would know today that he has made it quite clear: As long as there are 11 countries in the EU that block a change, a reduction in deadlines, this is not possible. The difference between you and the SPÖ or the Social Minister is that: The Minister of Social Affairs will point out at each event, as well as yesterday in the evening at the European Dialogue, that these deadlines are too long for the country of membership of Austria that we want shorter deadlines. But that's just going together. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Notes alone is useless!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I beg you, come on. You down, ask yourself here and answer the following question: What initiatives have the Members of Parliament in Brussels, your Members of the European Union, taken in connection with this problem up to date? What did you do? – They have not taken any initiative. Look at the logs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What initiatives has the Minister set up in Brussels? What about the letter?]] But they make themselves here and suder and lament what's bad. Your initiative in Brussels is just as much in demand! I'm going to Brussels, I'm going to talk to you again, but your Members are not. That's actually missing. Agenda item 8: The economy rightly criticises that in some areas we have very strict rules on wage and social dumping, that we have partly too much administration. With this item on the agenda 8, with this novel to the LSD-BG, I think we are setting a good sign for the economy, but also for the employees. What's this about? – It is about simplifying reporting obligations for companies exporting abroad, but also for those companies coming to Austria in the field of passenger or freight transport. From daily reports we go to a reporting period of six months, from the extra effort of documents we switch to electronic documentation. This helps the Austrian economy in the transport sector, with a relief in the administration of up to €3 million. I think that's a very nice sign. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I can give two examples of the practice: In the tourism sector, the individual reports are lost. This concerns tourism, for example the buses coming from Bavaria to Austria. That's good for tourism, that's good for the economy. An example from the South Styria is the sand, gravel and pebble factory Klöcher Basaltwerke, which sells 40 percent of its goods to Slovenia. Exports will be simplified for transport companies collecting these goods, thus increasing value added in Austria. That is how we achieve simplification for all these areas. On the one hand, this is a good sign of the economy's ability to reduce difficulties, but at the same time we lose sight of the focus on controlling wage and social dumping in the future in order to have fair competition. I am particularly pleased that the Federal Transport and Transport Division of the Chamber of Commerce also rated this novel in a press release very positively and also supports it accordingly. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for this amendment, so that we can adapt the law to the practice of transport. I would also like to thank your experts at the Ministry of Preparation, through which we can decide on the novelle here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18061	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18083	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, we have heard, above all, of the ÖVP, that worker protection is too taxing for entrepreneurs in this country. It is now also starting with the wage and social dumping control law, whose rules we must start to detonate. I am not convinced that this is a step in the right direction, nor in the transport sector, an industry that is quite vulnerable to wage and social dumping, I say. That's a shame. What I would also like to say is that I do not believe, however, that this theoretical change will bring about virtually so much deterioration, because that in itself good law – and that is the only point where I agree with the FPÖ – still cannot come into effect. I would also like to address why this is so, and you all know it: This law does not work because it is not controlled enough. We have a clear under-retirement at the responsible financial police. The promised increase in staff has never arrived, at least not in the departments responsible for these controls. This is not sustainable, there must finally be a corresponding change in the next budget. The second is: We also need increased efforts to finally enable cross-border law enforcement. It does not help if we know what foreign employers are doing here in Austria in wage and social dumping if we do not approach them. Cooperation with the countries of origin of these companies must be strengthened. However, I would also like to point out that I expect the Federal Government not to provide fair wages and fair working conditions that are less half-hearted or simply more consistent. What do I mean by that? – In this context, I would like to address the implementation of the EU Procurement Directive through the revision of the procurement law. You all know, through the corresponding directive, it is possible for us to take more account of social and environmental criteria. This was done with the first innovation, which is essentially limited to the construction sector. But with the second novel, we're clearly falling back, we're not taking advantage of this opportunity. The best can be the cheapest again in many, many circumstances; and this is simply at the expense of the possible staff. That's why I'm asking It is urgent: In this question, sharpen the novelle again! We must be able to make optimum use of the opportunities offered by the best bidder principle in terms of the use of public funds for fair wages. In the second part of my speech, however, I would like to address – interestingly, that colleague Muchitsch did not do so at all – the NEOS AK proposals that seem to have today a neoliberal big-war day with three speakers – or only speakers – on this agenda item. [[Abg. Sherak: We always have!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the Chamber of Labour is doing important and good work, especially in the area of representation of interests for those who are unable to exercise their rights and interests on their own. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] It also provides important advice for those who may not always be treated fairly by their employer or owner. Now I want to know about the NEOS: What exactly is bad about it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] What do you say in this direction? If I get it together, you probably want the individual little employees to negotiate with their future boss, how much she deserves when she works, on what framework she works, because that's freedom. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scherak.]] Freedom means being left with forced membership. What do we need minimum wages for? What do we need a law on working time, maximum working hours and rest periods? Labour protection is also only a matter for soft eggs that cannot negotiate. [[Abg. Loacker: Intellectual separation is not that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we don't see it that way. We reject this permanent Dirty Campaign, which I would like to call it, against the Chamber of Workers. A single point, namely that it must necessarily be enshrined in the Constitution, is not quite conclusive for us either. Finally, I would like to quote briefly from one of your requests: The Chamber of Labour stands in the way of those to whom it was intended and loses more and more hope. – I would just like to point out a number of questions on the subject of trust in institutions in Austria. At the last, from July 2016, the Chamber of Labour is to be found in second place, immediately after the police, a total of 25 institutions were surveyed. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Second place goes to the Chamber of Labour, then the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court arrive. It is interesting now that the neoliberal NEOS are concerned about so many of the forced members of the Chamber of Workers, who are quite comprehensively quite satisfied with exactly this Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Scherak: Then they would be there voluntarily!]] - A slug who thinks evil with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18181	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18202	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I will devote myself to item 8 on the agenda, which is about red tape by amending the wage and social dumping law. Mr Muchich has already responded to these reliefs. But now that I have heard the speeches from the liberals and the Greens that it is still too little sharp that there is too little financial police, I say: Please go out and talk to the economy, which controls are really there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's almost no more day when no controller goes in at the door. We will certainly be controlled enough. The only question is whether the right ones are always controlled. That is the question, we can also discuss it. This change now concerns God mainly thanks to tourism, which is thereby facilitated. We know that tourism is really one of the most stable economic factors in the Austrian economy. Tourism has also increased in economically difficult times, and last year the first time it has exceeded the 140 million-minority limit. However, a number of bureaucratic reliefs for tourism have also been achieved in the past year. You know how long we have been negotiating, Federal Minister, that we are now God, thanks to this very clear arrangement, especially for the many family businesses, as far as voluntary assistance in the establishments is concerned, where family members can help at peak times, if they are in employment or retirement, if there are any tips to cover. We have arranged for the two hours per day to be cut off, i.e. a small number of employees can now be used in tourism at a wedding or at another family celebration in the weekend. We have also succeeded in shortening the night rest period in exceptional cases. These are reliefs that are very, very important and where we are on the right path, but where we are far from finished. With regard to the facilitation of the transport industry, it is mainly for the buses passing through Austria, which come to Austria, to say: Control is important, but control must be set up in such a way that it is possible to control precisely, but the entrepreneur does not have to deal with the bureaucracy for as long as he does with the activity he does. It went fast, it went well. Mr Federal Minister, we are on the right track, and I am glad that we can decide on this today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18256	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18278	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Schatz, thank you for the introduction to the Chamber of Workers. Of course, the compulsory membership in all chambers should be abolished, but today the request is on the agenda to abolish the compulsory membership of the Chamber of Labour. Chambers actually come from the professional thinking of the 1930s; there you were either a farmer or a worker or a trader and did what the dad already did. [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you know who created this? Who?]] Today, the professional world is another. People change their profession, work partly independently, partly in the employee relationship. They decide freely whether to work from home or to go to the office. They decide whether to drive by bus, bicycle or by car, and they also decide for themselves whether the bike is theft insured at the Generali or at any other insurance. I decide if I have a membership of the ÖAMTC, in case the car will frighten me on my way to work. And if workers are important to you, go free to the union. All of this they can decide – only at the Chamber of Workers must they be whether you want or not. The Chamber of Labour pays €23 million each year additional pensions to its own ex-employees. That's more extra board than an ASVG insurer gets at all, and that's what the forced members have to pay, whether they like it or not. In the last ten years, the assets of the Chamber of Labour have increased by 66 percent. I say quite loosely, the assets of the Forced members have not increased by 66 percent, but they have to finance the lives of workers' chamberers in floribus every year to the new and even more every year. € 117 million are in securities. The Chamber of Labour, which on the subject of old-age insurance, calls securities as the poison bad, puts the money of its forced members in securities! 100 million € are liquid on bank accounts. That's what I'm wondering. This is irresponsible handling of so much money. One simply sees that the Chamber of Labour has too much money, because it is more beautiful than a quarter of the annual revenue is simply lying around on accounts, one cannot represent the overfinancing of the Chamber of Workers at all. In 2014 alone, the Chamber of Workers worked for €8 million to promote the party! Please, in the country with the highest party funding of Europe, the Chamber of Labour makes party funding once again! That is why Mr Hechtl and Mr Wimmer come later and tell us how great the Chamber of Workers is, because, of course, a murderer's battle flows into the Socialist Trade Unions' Group. That's how it looks! This must be financed by the forced members whether they like it or not. With this structure, which comes from the thinking of the 1930s, with which the Reds do not otherwise have it, but if it serves their own pocket, then already, with this thinking you hold free citizens in a forced membership. You know what's good for people. It's good for her when they're there, says my colleague, honey, who's already there with the reds, and it's good for the people when the chamber looks at her. – They could think for themselves and decide for God’s sake! Stop dictateing people what's good for them! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let the citizens decide for themselves what they want to spend their money for, and finally give people freedom from chamber pressure!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18333	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18362	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It wouldn't be Col. Loacker, he didn't go to the workers' chambers like that. I think the Chamber of Labour has gained very much confidence in history, especially since the Second Republic. Mrs. Schatz has already said that if you take the confidence in institutions in Austria, the Chamber of Labour is right in second place – just to say that clearly once. [[Abg. Scherak: Then they can be there voluntarily!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] The Chambers of Workers have no compulsory membership with their membership. This must also be said clearly and clearly, and made known, because there is a significant difference between the obligation and the obligation. Mr. Loacker, I think you are also exploring the performance of this Chamber of Workers or not, because if you consider that you can enjoy and benefit from all benefits in labour and social law, consumer protection, in vocational training, in youth employment, in education – educational bonus et cetera – on an average, you can also benefit from housing grants, this is an institution that is very helpful to us, society and, above all, to the workers. If you attack them so much, we are already used to it because it bothers you that there are such strong legal interests. And the Chamber of Labour is a strong representative and a strong voice tube of the employees in Austria. If you always highlight and criticize this, we can only point that out. I can point to the report of this newspaper, the AK Tirol’s “Worker’s Newspaper”, in which it says that the Chamber of Labour paid more than half a billion euros – exactly 523 million euros – in amounts brought in for workers who received too little wages or salaries, whether it was vacation money or Christmas money, whether the termination was not justified, whether the dismissal was unjustified. [[Keeping a copy of it in height]] Of course, the benefits you do not appreciate are where you say because of your liberal attitude: Go to a private lawyer! We, the SPÖ Group and the trade unions, rely on our Chamber of Workers and let us not make them ready. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to the second request, in which you, if no legal protection is granted in labour law or social law, require the Chamber of Labour to take a decision. They know the Constitutional Court's decision since 1977, where it is precisely regulated that institutions that can adopt simple laws can also establish organisations to which a contribution is granted, a so-called duty contribution for members. I think that is an essential point. Moderate recording is not necessary. If you look at the report and see that the Chamber of Labour has carried out two million consultations annually or in 2016, on average 8,000 daily, you realize that this would be an administrative burden, which is not at all necessary, you would issue a notice in each case of legal protection. For legal protection itself – I do not know if you know it; I am of course also insiders going there –: The legal protection of the Chamber of Labour begins with legal advice, which is part of the legal protection, which continues to intervene in the operations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It will then advise on how far these benefits may be enforced in court. It will then be decided whether legal protection is granted. As the statistics show, there are very few cases where the legal protection allowance has not been made, because it sometimes occurs that the servants have the idea that they still get the old discharge in the event of a justified dismissal, or because the claims they claim are not justified. I think that if I can say so, I would like to insist on a flat-rate approach to the Chamber of Labour. As I said, We rely on our Chamber of Workers, we are proud that in Austria we have this Chamber of Workers on a legal basis. We are no-one anything; nor, if someone has a “healthy” company – under quotations – if he builds something if he has any other obligations, can bear any of these reserves. Let the bashing against the workers' chambers we are so proud of!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18421	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18442	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hechtl, because you meant in the direction of Mr Loacker, “let the Bashing against the Chambers of Workers,” I must say: Then the workers' chamber must also leave the bashing in the direction of entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] It cannot be that, as with the video of the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, an exclusive entrepreneurial bashing is made. For a minute, an entrepreneur is presented as a narcissus, who still puts money into his pregnant employee's decolleté and so on and so on, who throws the champagne glass and says that only one person, namely bonuses, employee did not interest him at all. [[Abg. Wöger: Tasteless!]] What kind of cooperation is that? What's that understanding of one another? . I say to you that it is not apologisable for such actions to be financed by the members' compulsory membership contributions. This is not in the sense of the Chamber of Workers! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, ÖVP and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One point to which I would like to speak is our request, namely the request for TOP 11. We have tabled the request which calls on the Social Minister to submit to the National Council a draft law which provides for the "absorbing of the compensation allowance for foreign pensioners living in Austria". Now one can say that this issue is a small topic, a marginal issue, because it is not so many, but vice versa, it is a subject that is very, very strongly emotionalized. This is a topic where many who have worked in a profession for 30, 40 years, for example as an assistant, as a seller, at the end of their active time, then, when they go to retirement to apply for a compensation allowance, they are also granted, and then receive a total of €882 in pension – including compensation allowance. And these people who have really worked hard for 30, 40 years don't understand that someone comes into this social system, has never paid anything and at the end of the day receives as much money on Heller and Cent as they do. Ladies and gentlemen, I know the number is not so overwhelming, it is not so many people who are concerned with this, but it is a rising number. While in 2010 there were still 708 foreign pensioners who received a compensation allowance, in 2015 it was already 1,238. I therefore come to the case of a Bulgarian who has moved to Vienna to her son, who himself has acquired a pension of € 111, who has sought pension insurance for the compensation allowance and has received € 523 as a compensation allowance. A judge of the OGH came to a different conclusion. He said clearly: In this case, poverty migration is. This has not been said by anyone about the opposition, it has not said any evil person who is against foreigners, but the OGH has found that when people who themselves are not so capable of coming to Austria are moving to the social network, it is about poverty migration. That is why this judge has also decided against this compensatory allowance. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a loophole. If someone comes to Austria, who can prove sufficient means of living, then he gets a residence permit, that is, he can stay for longer than three months, he can live for one year, he can live in Austria for an infinitely long time, and if he has a justified stay here, then he can later very well claim a transfer of benefits. How do some people do that? How do they prove that they have sufficient means of living? – University professor Dr. Robert Rebhahn of the University of Vienna speaks of the so-called Munich effect. That is, these people come to Austria and lend themselves to a close relative's money. The money comes to the savings book, with the savings book they show that they have sufficient means of living, and hardly have they proved it, the money goes back to the close relative. So there is still a loophole that can be closed from our point of view. That is why we have tabled this request: because we clearly believe that it is a duty to pay first in the social pot, and only from this can the right be derived from the social pot. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this sense, we request our consent to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18509	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18530	Mr President. High house! If we are talking today about the wage and social dumping law and we are developing this legal matter, which is only five years old and unique, in the sense that we are protecting those companies that comply with Austrian laws, and those companies that do not comply with Austrian laws that want to conduct wage and social dumping, then this is a right law. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, because you said that this law does not work: The exact opposite is the case! We are currently having a discussion at European level, because many ministers, including from neighbouring countries – I have also been informed that there has been a debate on Austrian law in a parliament of a neighbouring country – see that it works. We are clearly saying that we are protecting those companies that comply with the laws, and we want to propose to those who are engaged in wage and social dumping. I also think it is important that we adapt the circumstances to modern technologies. That's what we do. I would ask you to introduce administrative simplifications here for fair business. I believe – and I am sure that I can do this today – that I do not have to say much on the subject of the Chambers of Workers. The people in Austria, the workers stand by their Chamber of Workers. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] They know they have a representative who supports them if they are concerned at work. I think that's the important sign we can put there. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, on one point I have to give you the right. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Go!]] - Really! They said unemployment is high, it's far too high. – I expressly give you the following: It is indeed high, it is far too high, but it has fallen by nearly 8,000 unemployed people in March, including training participants. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I fell, but I said!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But I said that she has sunk!]] This is the biggest decline in five years. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Maybe the construction companies have started working again like every year?]] This Austrian government has said quite clearly: We do not want to accept unemployment. That is why we have discussed the employment bonus, we will carry out the “Action 20,000”, we will increasingly finance investments in the communities so that new jobs can be created in the labour market. We'll invest. That is what the Austrian Federal Government is doing because we do not want to accept unemployment. This is the decisive message of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18629	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18650	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the wage and social dumping law is, as the Minister has also said, a very substantial and meaningful development. I think we all agree that there is a consistent approach to wage and social dumping and that, where the rules are not practicable, it is appropriate to inculcate them accordingly. This is also the subject of this novel. There have been problems, especially in the transport and tourism sectors, which have been difficult to deal with, but also in dealing with, particularly in the field of incoming tourism, where wage documents have been carried out in the reporting of foreign workers; this is now also electronically possible. I think we have found a regulation that is really very practical, sensible and good. As on today's agenda there is also a request from Mr Loacker from the NEOS on the subject of compulsory membership of the Chamber of Labour, I would like to repeat: Of course, we are committed to our social partners and therefore also to compulsory membership, but, and this has already been mentioned by some previous speakers, these forced contributions should be handled efficiently and carefully. What is currently fabricating the Chamber of Workers under President Calliauer in Upper Austria with this inconceivable video is really a blow to the face of the working people who pay their contributions. I am a worker's representative of the ÖAAB myself, and we already see in the employee's representation the dialogue between the entrepreneur and employee and no class struggle as he is shown in this video. That's really last-class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to look at the following – this is also a call towards the Chamber of Workers –: We currently have the highest employment that we have ever had, so that there is also a correspondingly high level of duty paid to the Chamber of Labour. Of course, it is important to have a legal representation that you have a service, but such class struggle campaigns as they are conducted there are unbearable, and it is not acceptable that such a thing is done with compulsory contributions. This was also commented on in many newspapers. I would like to draw a comment from the “curier” in which it is said that this video is an insult to intelligence. – This is really meaningful because there are very good laws in the area of worker protection. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, and you, Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in the Chamber of Labour, immediately put President Kalliauer back on track and use the contributions accordingly efficiently. I think it would also be good for the Chamber of Labour to deal with the contributions a little more economical and to reduce the contributions. The Chamber of Commerce in Upper Austria, for example, is doing this, where €10 million will be saved. The workers' comb... This should also be done and avoid any such senseless campaigns that are counterproductive.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18698	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18720	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear forced members, we are all in Austria and should not be! [[Abg. New builder: I don't!]] I would like to comment on the workers' chamber law and on the issue of social partnership as a whole. Of course, the social partnership is an invention of state-of-the-art times, from ancient times. [[Abg. Steinhauser:... representation was created! That's nonsense!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Of course!]] You have almost the need to reinvent this state-of-the-art logic again and again, you have the need to reinvent the depths and the rejections of the last century again and again, because of course the social partners also express this red-black power cartel. I'm surprised that the greens get so excited. This means, however, that they have already arrived very deep in the felt of this old republic, and that's why it takes fresh, new forces. By the way, dear ÖVP: If you talk to Harald Mahrer or Sebastian Kurz under four eyes with quite more innovative guys, then they say behind your hand, of course, the forced membership belongs away. But you don't have the Cojones that they say this publicly; that, I think, is a bit far the problem. [[He-Rufe at FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] That's not what they trust, and that's what I think, a bit far-reaching to the Republic: that high representatives on the one hand know what to do, but on the other hand they don't say it publicly and then also in the injunctions...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18788	Mr. Klubobmann! This use of words is also not permitted in a foreign language. Do you want to take that back? [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18820	It is not that we want to abolish the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. We want to bring them into a modern logic, and we believe that compulsory membership is not part of the 21st century. ==References== The Chamber of Labour as a Forced Membership Organization is on this continent, except in Austria, exactly still in Luxembourg, otherwise nowhere. We are Anachronism: We celebrate the state of the stand – the rest of Europe no longer! The Chamber of Commerce with Forced Membership is also an outflow model in Europe, and you hold fast to these old heads because you benefit from this felt, with millions of secret or semi-secret party funding per year, with very bold privileges, hundreds of millions of luxury pensions that you can afford to your clientele through the business of friends. Keeping this in mind It's hard on you, and people have to pay for it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Even those who have falling incomes must pay more and more, even those who have stagnating incomes must pay more and more, and that is not okay. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In 2007, you raised this to the constitutional rank because you knew you needed species protection because this dinosaur should actually die out in a modern world. The constitutional rank therefore belongs away. We have already tabled proposals for initiative in this regard. We stay there, in the sense of freedom and the opportunities for people: Get the hell out of here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18887	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strolz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18969	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e18990	Mr President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! What Mr Hammer said is in the final effect of hammer itself: He describes a disease called austrosclerosis – that is, a total hardening of the whole story. My colleague, Treasure, has mentioned in her defence throw for the forced membership that it is so important, and has spoken of a Dirty Campaining of NEOS. In the meantime, I hope you have watched this film made by the Chamber of Labour in Upper Austria. This is the most levelless Dirty Campaining you can only deliver. The final effect is that – I will briefly explain it to you – the businessman is generally a bad person, that he is a narcissus, that he simply does not consider the employees at all and that he is a speculator. Now I'm telling you something: What is the Chamber of Workers? What's the workers' chamber doing? – She speculates, she has securities, and she deals with real estate! So if you still tolerate this and defend it, if you still defend the sexist representation in this video, then, I'm sorry, you have lost your function. That cannot be how the Upper Austrian Chamber of Workers draws against entrepreneurship. And then Mr Hammer comes and says that the ÖVP is totally opposed to this video, but the social partners are absolutely important to it. He said it literally. We are for forced membership, he said – literally! Quote: We're for forced membership. I believe in freedom. I also believe in the staff who would buy such freedom, which would involve voluntary membership. There is no one in the Chamber of Labour devoting their role as a worker's representative, but what happens there is a very blatant spectacle. Both government groups commit themselves to compulsory membership, and this can be done in the 21st century. ==References== We face major challenges, such as digitisation versus service society. We have new working worlds that need to be filled, and both government groups are in the same way responding to this request with regard to the abolition of compulsory membership. I believe that we live in freedom that we have arrived in a new century – only, the social partners are not yet at work. That is this hardening, that is this oestrosclerosis, which I would like to speak of: a hardening to protect one's own mechanism, to protect the promotion of one's own party. What the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers do with the forced contributions is actually a scandal. [[Call the SPÖ:Na, na, na!]] This has to be cleaned up, and it is only when we lift the chambers back from the constitutional rank. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then we speak of no Dirty Campaign, but of a modern, modern corporate representation. Two examples: Sweden and Germany, positive economic examples, have implemented these reforms in 2000, and today they are seen as models, in their economic growth, in their economic performance. They have recognized that the brake is forced membership in their countries. And that, in general, the brakes in our country suffer from austrosclerosis, this hardening, namely the social partnership, is behind you. On the subject of working time flexibility, the social partners from January to June have at most a coffee date, and this is already very difficult, and now they are to present a programme called working time flexibility? – You don't believe that yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19030	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19051	Mr President. Minister! High house! These agenda items are also about a government template to limit wage and social dumping. In order to prevent or at least limit wage and social dumping by foreign companies in Austria, strict legislation has been adopted in recent years. Now these legal screws are again loosened. I wonder if this measure does not achieve the opposite. I see the danger of opening the door and gate to foreign sparkers while our sparkers stay on the track. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn. The facts are as follows: If there are any more misdevelopments and the like at the Chamber of Labour, this should be eliminated and stopped, but as a works council, I can tell you that it is necessary for the Chamber of Labour to exist, for where should your employees turn if injustice happens to them? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You're not helping them. You'll advise them for your benefit. [[Abg. Loacker: That's a premise! It's a subjugation!]] I believe, Mr Loacker, that the workers in Austria have a right to give them advice. There you can get up, jump, hop: It is nevertheless true that many workers need advice from the Chamber of Workers. As a works council, I can confirm for myself that very good deliberations are being made. Mr President, if there are any misdevelopments, these should be eliminated, and if there are such videos in Upper Austria or more, this should be stopped, but in principle the Chamber of Labour is a good establishment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19105	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19127	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Doppler, has now presented this very well. [[Abg. Neubauer: I didn't know that the Chamber of Workers was only doing legal advice!]] Although Mr Doppler is not of my group, as the works council, he has, as I believe, expressed very precisely and in detail what services are provided by this representation of interest every day Austrianally. [[Call at the FPÖ: Will be already!]] Of course, we can discuss the advertising contribution that has now been mentioned again and again. [[Abg. Loacker: No, he's indisputable!]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] But what we should also discuss is the question of what services are provided. Mr Klubobmann of the NEOS, I am already surprised – I am not used to it from you – that you are talking so salopp of hundreds of millions for privileges and friendships. You have no idea what's happening in this Chamber of Workers! You have no idea! Go to a district office once! If you go to the Chamber of Workers, you will see that hundreds of colleagues and colleagues there ask for advice and action every day, but not because it is funny, but because in many companies we have such great difficulties. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, there is, good work!]] [[Abg. Loacker: hundreds every day? Ah, go!]] Hundreds of millions are getting started in Austria day after day, but not because it is funny, but because payments are prevented because notice periods are not met because there are unjustified redundancies. [[Abg. Loacker: Ah, go!]] I could mention a list of establishments known here, from Burgenland to Vorarlberg, and you will probably say that in the third millennium there can be no such treatment for workers. [[Abg. Loacker: Start!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Especially there!]] We have a strong legal representation, we have free legal protection, and we have a great consumer protection office in this Chamber of Labour, and the colleagues who work there have not deserved to be treated here, above all by NEOS. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: luxury pensions!]] Mr Loacker, in Vorarlberg and in all the other eight federal states, the workers of the Chamber of Labour do great work. [[Abg. Loacker: In Vorarlberg very special!]] Among the officials and also the presidents, especially those of the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers: The president of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Workers Dr. Johann Kalliauer is a president who, of course, how different it is, is clearly on the side of colleagues and colleagues who are employed and also pursuing a corresponding policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm trying to stop at last, discuss it, and make the workers' chamber worse from morning to later. [[Abg. Stroll: Movers!]] This is a great establishment, and we must ensure that in the future the Chamber of Labour has the possibilities it has today. - I'm asking for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19313	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, as always, on each committee request. Vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law amending the wage and social dumping law and the anti-fraud law, including the title and receipt in 1589 of the supplements. Who agrees? - That's the majority. Third reading: Who agrees in third reading? – That is the majority in turn, and so it is decided in third reading. Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1605 of the supplements. This is the approval of the majority, therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1606 of the supplements. This is the approval by the majority and therefore adopted. Debates of the European Parliament Social partners get out of the Constitution. Who agrees to this request? – This is the minority, the request is rejected. Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1607 of the supplements. Who agrees? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. [[17:50:02]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1478, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania on social security (1604, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19428	So we come to the 12th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First and only word message: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19456	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My group rejects the agreement on the debate, and I should like briefly to explain this: This agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania concerns social security. For whom should this social security apply? – According to legislation, it concerns persons who have spent their working lives in the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania or who temporarily reside or reside in the other State. Let us therefore look more closely at the Contracting State of Albania: In June 2014, Albania was granted EU candidate status, in return for the EU’s judicial reform. In the Commission's progress report of November 2016, negotiations were recommended. In Albania, however, despite the judicial reform, there is still a major deficit in the rule of law, which foreign investors who want to operate in Albania must repeatedly experience. The EU anti-corruption report also showed little progress. Albania is still fighting with the old burdens of Communism. Unfortunately, Albania has become the largest hemp producer in Europe, which is also a fertile ground for organised crime. The unemployment rate was already 18 percent in 2014; the youth unemployment rate – with an increasing trend – was 30 percent. The economy has been ill since the economic crisis, and therefore, of course, migration to Germany and Austria has become much more attractive. The The Austrian taxpayer will have to bear the costs incurred by this migration or immigration. The financial burden on pensions under the Agreement shall be charged by 2021 with costs of € 733 000, but shall be admitted in the small print of the notes that an exact calculation is not possible, in particular in the area of pension insurance. We do not share this financial burden and the risk to Austria's budget. We do not want the agreement to facilitate and favour the posting of workers. On the contrary: Immigration into our labour market and in our social state must be stopped. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Unemployment in Austria would be fuelled by such a measure. We want first and foremost social security for our Austrian workers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19504	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1478 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[17:53:59]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Michael Hammer, colleagues in a federal law amending the Convention in 1953 (1610 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19552	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First word message: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19580	Mr President. Federal Minister! There were interesting days when, for example, Turkish flags were hurting in Vienna at demonstrations that one believed, either it finds a Football matches take place or are located directly in Turkey. There were also events in Austria during the referendum in Turkey in the direction of this presidential system that Erdoğan wants to install. We have also heard of side effects, of these double-citizenship issues. The President-in-Office of the Council has restated to say that he sees no harm in a double citizenship alone. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Federal President has already said a lot of nonsense!]] [[Call the Greens: Go!]] Well, maybe it's no harm, it's just against the law, simply and decisively against our citizenship law. The calls were entitled to: It has been said by many political parties, including us, that Austria must not be the march for elections of politics taking place in third countries. That just doesn't belong to Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] An effort has been made to think and find a political solution in the field of congregation law. As so often in Austria, much is thought well, but made bad. This is now this proposal, which has come to our house as an initiative proposal by two colleagues – by Mr Schabhuttl and Mr Hammer – with the appropriate assistance from the Ministry of the Interior. It includes a passage in which the child is poured out with the bath. What's the intention? – There is no desire for foreign politicians in Austria to make election campaigns or similar activities for events taking place abroad. One has found in this law a passage that reads: Such events may be prohibited if they violate international law, international provisions, treaties, but also practices and the foreign policy interests of the Republic of Austria. With a fundamental right, it is such a thing: In the case of a fundamental and freedom law such as assembly law, a balance must be made between fundamental rights, such as the fundamental right to life's integrity. For example, if a demonstration is life-threatening or health threatening that disturbs public peace, order or security, it will be prohibited. This is a consideration of fundamental rights. Now my question is: What are the fundamental rights of the Republic of Austria? - I didn't find it. The question of the organization is also a special one. According to the proposal, the Federal Government is responsible for prohibiting such events only if representatives of foreign countries, representatives of international organisations or anything else come. That is, if they are not there and yet do violate international law or foreign policy interests, then at one time the district administration authority, the county headquarters, is responsible. All of a sudden, the County Headquarters must know what the foreign policy interests are. Is there now foreign policy speakers at the police stations who need to find out every week what these things are all about? There is a lot to be sharpened. Mr Hammer himself said in the committee that this is only the beginning, because there is still a need to take into account the protection of non-participants from demonstrators, and there is still something missing. The Federal Minister has said that there will even be an inquiry to make this right of assembly. That is why I would like to ask you: Why these Haves with This Bad Law? We have also suggested a request for a postponement, which Mr Hagen has also tabled, but which has not been accepted. That is, because of the statements made by the government parties, this is an open construction site and we are now deciding something bad. I come to the question of the Bannmeile, this safety distance from 50 to 150 meters. If you could see the danger of public peace, order and security on the centimeters at all times, it would be easy. We understand that you need to register a rally not 24 hours in advance, but 48 hours in advance, so that the police have a lighter handling and can better organize. It is only if I register on Saturday before Pentecost Monday, 48 hours before, that there may be exactly the same problems for Pentecost Monday, because the question of organisation and public order, public security, public peace and all these principles will not be measured in minutes and seconds. Therefore, God remains in power, that if public peace, order and security are threatened, a rally of the organs already mentioned in § 16 can still be forbidden. We wanted to be constructive – what we are always invited to do by the government parties – and wanted to introduce a bill that expressed exactly what the government parties wanted to regulate, as they themselves say. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19650	Ladies and gentlemen, would you please also read the second point?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19665	To be completed: ‘2. point 6 (paragraph 16(2)) is deleted.’; That is the complete amendment. We have also made this version available to the other political groups, and Mr Hagen of the Stronach team is also a supporter of this request. We brought him in to handle exactly what the government coalition always wanted according to its announcements. In what is happening now, abuse is open to abuse, namely rubber paragraph-like provisions such as foreign policy interests at once. I'm telling you what to do with this: Austrian citizens make an event in Vienna, at – we still call it – Heroesplatz, under the motto Free Tibet. The Dalai Lama is invited by an international organization, but by chance the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Federal President are on a trip to China to conclude contracts there. Then, at one time, the administration authority of the Inner City District in Vienna or the Vienna State Police Directorate says that the foreign policy interests of the Republic of Austria are violated, so we reject this rally. In reality, such a thing cannot be willful and meant. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] That is why we have tabled our well-intentioned amendment in order to implement what is wanted. We don't want to pour the child out with the bath, we don't.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19721	The amendment tabled by Mr Rosenkranz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19787	Next word: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19808	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the revision and adaptation of the law of the assembly, we make this more feasible. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Performable...!]] This will, in particular, increase the security and legal certainty of citizens, and this is an essential objective. It is mainly about the security of the participants in meetings, but also about non-participants, of course. A number of essential points will be implemented, and it is clear – and the ÖVP and also the Federal Minister have always said – that we have further ideas that we want to discuss in future. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The text is from the SPÖ? That's crazy! A whore!]] The survey has already been addressed, and we, Mr Rosenkranz, have the understanding that we are saying we want to solve something. We will get along with these changes improvements. It's just that you can find a consensus at the government level, too. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Jarolim, that's crazy!]] We always prefer to do something – unlike you, who always demand great, announce big things, and at the end agree with nothing, because then you always say it's too little, it's not enough or similar. The most important changes to these novels are: The application period is extended from 24 to 28 hours. I believe that this is a very essential area when it comes to making appropriate arrangements for a safe course of meetings. [[Abg. Lausch: 28 you said! You don't know your own application!]] [[Call the Greens:48!]] - 48, yes. In order to anticipate the same thing that has been said over and over again: Spontaneous meetings continue to be possible with the new regulation – because this was addressed accordingly in the opinions. If, and this is an essential point, the participation of foreign representatives is planned, the time limit for listing is increased to one week due to the special preparatory measures. It is also important to establish an area of protection for designated congregations, which is also intended to ensure that a proper assembly is held unimpeded. It is simply a matter of separating the congregation and the territorial demonstrations accordingly. 150 meters are standardized as the upper limit, you can of course do so even if the measures are sufficient, by 50 meters. A third essential point, which has also been raised by Mr Rosenkranz, is that foreign electoral campaigns or other foreign political conflicts should not be carried out on Austrian soil, and therefore this regulation, which we are meeting, may be prohibited if it serves the political activities of third-country nationals and is contrary to foreign policy interests, recognised international legal principles and practices, international obligations or democratic values of the Republic of Austria. There's all this in there. [[Abg. Scherak: That's why he won't...!]] Mr Rosenkranz, on your amendment: We will not approach the request. You've done it, but he's got a very blatant weakness. They say that if a foreign representative participates, the assembly must be indicated and can then be prohibited. What, though, if it is not wrongly indicated and the congregation cannot be banned? [[Abg. Steinhauser: Then it is dissolved!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It will be dissolved!]] – The proposal therefore contains weaknesses in it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What about your regulation?]] With these measures we guarantee that demonstrations can proceed properly in the future. It cannot be assumed that participants of a de-monstration will go to others or foreign elections will be carried out with us. We as the ÖVP want further regulations, this too has been mentioned. We want an extension of the reporting obligation to 72 hours. We need essential measures to ensure that there is no disproportionate damage to third parties, such as business people or public institutions, and to provide for special protection zones accordingly. The responsibilities and duties of the head of the assembly also belong to more detailed terms, and the EIA will commit itself to them. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That doesn't mean anything!]] The Federal Minister has announced a survey and today's decision is the first time we implement important measures. We want him to follow. Then you can show whether you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19963	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e19984	Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has come up with a law idea that has the content that election campaign events with Erdoğan in Austria should not be possible. A law has come out to prohibit protests against the People's Republic of China or against the policies of the People's Republic of China here in Vienna. That's such a rubber law! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] This is a law that provides a room for such widespread bans on assemblies, that this is unacceptable and represents a serious incision into congregation law in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A dolphin paragraph!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's where the Minister of the Interior laughs!]] But the row after: The Federal Government is talking about election campaign events. The word election event does not appear in the law at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly!]] They are meetings of all kinds. The Federal Government is talking about third-country nationals. The question of citizenship – regardless of how you stand – does not occur at all. It does not matter whether an Austrian or a third-country national logs in to a meeting. That's irrelevant. It is only a matter of assemblies serving the political activities of third-country nationals. What this is is very clear in the explanations, namely all the assemblies that have a third-country background, that is, all the political events that take place somewhere in a third country and can lead to a demonstration here. All of this is recorded. This scope ranges from political freedom in China to the question of Kurdish rights to the question of political activity in Saudi Arabia. All of this could be covered by this law if, and this is the second condition, it is contrary to the foreign policy interests of Austria. So, now is the question: What are the foreign interests of the Republic of Austria? [[Abg. Neubauer: Who sets them up?]] This is not always known by SPÖ and ÖVP themselves, and they often object to this question. However, the following is fixed: Okay, there are foreign policy interests and it is not about these foreign policy interests being threatened, no, the content of the assembly only has to be a different opinion. That is, for the first time, congregations can be forbidden because they do not cover themselves with the opinion of the government. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Metternich law!]] This is an absolute taboo in democracy, as we know it – for there is not a government opinion, but the freedom to articulate its opinion. [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Federal Minister Sobotka) If you were a lawyer, Minister, then you would no longer laugh!]] So – Mr Rosenkranz has already said it –: Who is called to determine whether to ban such a congregation or not? The claim of our federal government, which makes the Federal Government itself, is wrong. This is only the case if a foreign national takes part. If no one participates, this will be done by the Federal Police Department or the District Administration Authority. It sits down and has to consider first of all: Does that serve the political activities of third-country nationals? And second: What are the foreign policy interests now? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is not in the law!]] But then this is also a kann-destination. That means they still have a discretionary room, they can say yes or no. This is actually a political decision to be made. This is an absurd construction that has been presented to Parliament. I say that the applicants and even the Ministers of the Interior have not even understood the dimension of this request. The opposition has criticised this request in the Committee. We have asked questions, but there has been no answer to these questions. For example, there was the question: Turkish events per Erdoğan are registered by a Turk. Are they forbidden under this law: yes or no? Or: Pro-Erdoğan events are registered by an Austrian. Are they forbidden: yes or no? Or: An event against Erdoğan is registered by an Austrian. Is it prohibited under this law: yes or no? Or it's reporting a Turk or a Kurd. Is it to ban: yes or no? But if events for or against Erdoğan – Erdoğan: yes or no? – can be banned, why can a protest against the policies of the People's Republic of China not be banned? So this case is also given. The event reports an Austrian, it reports to a Chinese – we can play through this with all the questions that have a foreign relationship, where it is always about how political activity in a third country looks! In the past, the Social Democracy called “Highly the International Solidarity!” [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] This has long been the end of international solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a prejudice: In 1998, the President of the People's Republic of China was in Vienna. At the time, the foreign policy interest of the Austrian Federal Government was that this state guest, with whom one wanted to complete economic transactions, was not harassed with any protest. In other words, protests against the President of the People's Republic of China have been banned throughout Vienna. This has been tried in accordance with the law of the congregation. The Constitutional Court declared these prohibitions inadmissible. With this new law, these bans would be legally covered. I mean, the staircase of history is the: The Constitutional Court would probably repeal the law today, because of course the law is unconstitutional. But this is a puss of law that seeks the like of it. This also applies to the other points contained therein, such as the extension of the display period of a demonstration from 24 to 48 hours. Yes, the police have to prepare, that's not a question, but there too Mr Rosenkranz said: If a demonstration is notified and because of the size the security cannot be guaranteed if it is too short to be notified in time, then this may result in a ban. This is the reason that every demonstration in Austria, which has a certain size, is usually registered a week or ten days before. All demonstrations discussed here have not been notified 24 hours before, but usually seven to ten days before. The maximum number of small meetings is very close to that, even because of the applicant's interest, because he wants his assembly not to be banned. What will be the result? – The deadline is extended, and, as Mr Hammer rightly says, spontaneous meetings are still permitted. That is, the number of spontaneous meetings will rise. Will it be easier for the police to demonstrate in the right-wing space? - That's absurd! Next point: Minimum distance from 50 to 150 meters. – Already, the police have rightly had a margin for discretion to determine the distance from security considerations. It is also sometimes necessary that demonstrations be conducted separately – rightly! – that is, if the danger situation requires it. But there are also other examples: FPÖ has demonstrated against the asylum quarter in Erdberg. We didn't share that and many others didn't. On the other side of the street was demonstrated against this protest. That wasn't a problem. On the one hand stood the FPÖ, on the other side the local demonstrators stood, there was no incident – and it did not need a distance of 50 meters! The only thing that is now made possible by this law is that there, where demonstrations are actually peacefully co-existing together, one creates a distance. Otherwise, it's useless. It is simply and simply an unforgivable bill that does more harm than it benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I don't know, I'm going to think, maybe even with the NEOS, the Freeman and the Stronach team, if there's any interest in looking for the way to the Constitutional Court, because this incision into the law of the assembly, no matter what the political side one comes from, is not actually acceptable. [[Jawel-Ruf and Bravoruf des Abg. Kogler]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20173	Next speaker: Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20195	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Watchers here and at home on TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen. One thing I would like to say: The right of assembly or the right of demonstration is a very good thing for us Social Democrats. That is why we have been negotiating with our coalition partner for a long time. We have presented these legislative innovations with the necessary adaptations in order to create legal certainty and, at the same time, to introduce helpful changes for the authorities and our police, without restricting the right of assembly. Unfortunately, my predecessors of the opposition, as in the committee, did not speak very positively about these new laws. [[Abg. New builder: How could they?- Oh, my God!]] To one she goes too little, the other she goes too far again, one says there are ambiguities. I have already said in committee that I cannot understand this excitement. Then: This legislative innovation has achieved a good compromise, which on the one hand preserves the right of freedom of assembly and on the other hand addresses certain problems and changes in society. I would like to address once again the key points of these changes in a matter of fact and inconvenient: The extension of the period from 24 to 48 hours has been due to the authorities and the police because it has always been a problem, especially on weekends in Vienna, where most of the meetings take place, because it was difficult to ensure the necessary staff and bring it to the venue. We have also adopted a new regulation in the definition of the area of protection at the meetings. This brings security to a properly notified assembly as well as legal certainty to the competent authorities. There is now the definition that the protection range can be extended up to 150 meters if it is necessary. If the authority does not agree, an automatic protection area of 50 meters shall apply. This area of protection is very important in order to carry out a meeting, especially if there is a meeting to do so, and to ensure security. We have also adopted other new regulations, namely: If representatives of a foreign state or international organisations wish to participate in meetings, they must report one week before that. On the one hand, this has to do with the fact that this meeting can then be handled smoothly, and on the other hand also by allowing for the necessary protection to be given to this foreign representative. New to the Convention Act is the passus that a meeting can be prohibited if it “is used to serve the political activities of third-country nationals and to violate the recognised international legal principles and practices or [...] to the democratic values or foreign policy interests of the Republic of Austria”. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly!]] In this case, I consider it very positive that an event where a foreign high-ranking representative is involved – let me do it! – it is not prohibited by government representatives or by the mayor, but in the special case by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It's not inside!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's not true! It's not inside! Where's that?]] It is important for me to say one thing in this context, and I think I am speaking here on behalf of all the Members... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It's not inside!]] – Mr Rosenkranz, you were already on it! - Yes, let him! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Jarolim is already at the point of argument!]] We do not want foreign policy, especially if it violates international principles, to continue on our roads. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Then you agree to our amendment!]] It is also worth mentioning that spontaneous demonstrations or meetings are still possible and have not been restricted. Now there's another statement: I believe that this change has succeeded in a compromise that could also be accepted by the opposition if it wanted, and I invite you, freely to Bruno Kreisky, to go “a piece of the way together” and to agree to this request. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... only because the SPÖ was pulled over the table!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20340	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20361	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Well, Bruno Kreisky, I think, would rather turn around in the grave whether this political compromise is what you called this initiative proposal. This is not a political compromise, Mr Schabhüttl, but it is an intellectual insult, a legal insult to this Parliament. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] It starts once like this: You have commissioned an initiative application from the Ministry of the Interior, and since it was commissioned, the occasion has arrived. This is an occasion legislation of the new kind: You have had an occasion that has not occurred, however, because no Turkish politician has come to Austria to stop you from doing so, and now you are still making a new law, although you have no more reason to do so. The Minister of the Interior said that he wanted to exchange his views on the law of the assembly and discuss it that he would like to do so in a survey. I am always for surveys and fundamental discussions, even about such delicate materials as fundamental rights, you can discuss everything, there is no one knows why you want to make the law so fast now. This is a Hush-Push action: They have totally insecure terms in the law, the reasoning is flawed, it opens free will door and gate, and it is legistic one of the worst things I have ever read in this House. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] This, of course, has something to do with the short assessment period. The Minister of the Interior has told the press that he sees no problems at all, there was hardly any substantial criticism in the context of the review. It seems that I am always reading opinions other than you, Minister of the Interior, I am reading, for example, the opinion of the judge association in Austria, I am reading the opinion of the Bar Association, which says something quite different. We have already heard that you want to prohibit meetings that serve the political activities of third-country nationals – and in addition, we need a few conditions, for example, that the assembly contradicts the foreign policy interests of Austria. They wanted to prevent Turkish politicians from coming to Austria and making elections here. What you've done is I can't stand anywhere and say, I am demonstrating for Raif Badawi!, if, for whatever reason, it contradicts the foreign policy interests of Austria. We've heard, too. We do not know what these foreign policy interests should be, because you are in principle different. I wonder who I must ask specifically, whose foreign policy interest is in the foreground: Is it that of the Foreign Minister, is it that of the Federal Chancellor, is it that of the Vice chancellor or is it that of the Federal President? You don't know. Throughout history, it is particularly funny that you have stated in the statement of the original proposal that, in accordance with Article 16 of the European Convention on Human Rights, you can limit the political activity of third-country nationals. You then quoted Professor Grabenwarter in this context, but always only up to half. You said you could do that because he says it's in there. If you were to read on, you would see that there is explicit in there that it is extremely restrictive to interpret that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has already proposed that this paragraph should be deleted at all and applied only if it is about directly affecting a third-country national in political activities. In other words, it is about establishing parties, whether third-country nationals are allowed to participate in elections, but it is certainly not about being able to restrict congregation law in any way. You have this cleverly, when you have come to believe that you are contradicting yourself in your own reasoning, at least outstretched, that must be left to you. So you've read it so far that you realized that this obviously doesn't work. In addition, the question arises whether this is at all necessary, whether we would not find out with the current legal possibilities. Even if you think that's not the case, you'll shoot far beyond the finish again. Mr Rosenkranz and Mr Steinhauser have already mentioned the problem of the 48-hour application deadline. So if Rosary, Steinhauser and Scherak are now outraged by what you might say afterwards, and we want to register a demonstration tomorrow, then that will no longer be possible in the future because we can't keep the 48 hours. Now let's assume we're making a little demonstration, just too third, or we're inviting five other people to do it, then we can't show it to the police anymore, because it's not going out in time. The police don't have the opportunity to check it accordingly, but we still have the opportunity to make a spontaneous demonstration. That is, you're talking about exactly what you really wanted: that the police have enough preparation time to secure the demonstration accordingly and, of course, to ensure that nothing happens where they happen. We have discussed in the committee whether it is possible to differentiate between different sizes of meetings, and we have already heard that, of course, anyone who logs in with a huge demonstration will report early enough, because otherwise he is at risk of being unable to do so. If I go to the police 24 hours before or now 48 hours before and say I'm doing a demo with 7 000 people, then they'll tell me just as much that this won't happen in the 48 hours; I don't need to strap the weekend or the Pentecost Monday at all. It's quite logical: If I do something whole Great wants to make a big demonstration, then I will make it as early as possible of my own interest. This has always been done exactly that way, because it is quite logical. You make a Husch-Fuch-Action, you play on the piano of populism in a imaginably bad way, restricting fundamental rights of freedom, and you actually do so with a legal sense that seeks to be equal to it. Because we are already at the Turkish referenda, which was the trigger for this change in the Convention, I have another important concern: The Turkish Prime Minister, Erdoğan, has referred to the fact that, after this referendum has been adopted in his favour, he is also considering holding a referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty. At the moment, even in Austria, live Turks will be able to participate in this referendum, including in Austria, and I think this is extremely dangerous and incompatible with a liberal democracy such as Austria is. It cannot be said that in Austria people vote on it, regardless of whether they are double-citizens or not, whether the death penalty will be reintroduced in Turkey. These are real problems, we should discuss them, because the Federal Government should consider how it can prevent them from doing so! The idea that, in Austria, people in consulates – whether in Turkish consulates, be it in Turkish embassies or wherever – are throwing into this one note, with which they agree that the death penalty will be reintroduced in Turkey, I think more than alien. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you really want to do something that makes sense and where we really have to see that we are bringing something forward, then vote You agree with this motion for a resolution and do not simply limit the right of assembly, of Jux and Tollery, with a legistic smear in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20437	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Scherak is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20507	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20528	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you have certainly also noticed that in the demonstrations – this has come over in the media – violence is increasing more and more. It is therefore becoming increasingly difficult for security officials to protect the workers, the passersby and the public institutions, and therefore, of course, it is necessary to make improvements in the law of the assembly. My colleague has also mentioned this: Several improvements still need to be made, but this is a first step. It has been shown that massive damage occurs in the demos. This has also been strongly criticised by the commercialists in the city centre. Not even the insurance companies have covered the costs caused by the damage. The costs for the police have also increased dramatically. The objective is therefore – and this is also in line with this law – to ensure the safety of the meeting participants, as well as the security of the local demonstrators and those people who are not involved in the demonstration. What you have said is not quite right, because this law improves the protection of freedom of assembly, but also facilitates police work. When we look at the fact that there were about 7 000 demonstrations in 2010 and 14 000 demonstrations in 2016, we know that improvements are absolutely necessary. There are three areas of relevance in this law, which I can only repeat now. For the first, the distance between demonstration and spatial demonstration is determined, which can be up to 150 meters, but can also be smaller. Because it was mentioned earlier that one can also demonstrate together peacefully, I must say: No question, but if there is a distance of 50 meters, you can just as peacefully go side by side, but the police have it easier. Secondly, the application period is extended from 24 hours to 48 hours. This is also an important point, because the police, of course, have timetables to follow at their offices, and for such demonstrations police officers from the federal states often have to be requested, and of course they have to be able to share them accordingly. The third topic concerns foreign election campaigns on Austrian soil – something that is particularly criticised! I think it is very important that the Federal Government has the opportunity not to allow those demonstrations that are politically motivated to violate our foreign policy interests and where recognised legal principles of the European Convention on Human Rights are violated. If persons under special protection are present, the application period will run for up to one week. This is really only necessary for the protection of such persons. As has already been pointed out, there should be an inquiry. It is also to be considered which priorities are set for which freedoms. The protection of life is also an important freedom, and it cannot be followed in the back, but it must be of equal value, because if something happens, if there is a total lock and the rescue car cannot reach, then of course this would be a very difficult situation. I think this law is a first step towards making it a little easier for the security authorities to have an orderly course and that freedom of expression and respect for one another are possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20592	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20613	Mr President. High house! I might like to say at the beginning: This law actually belongs to the category of laws that Austria does not need. Ladies and gentlemen! We stood here a month ago and discussed the deregulation of laws. We have said: one in, one out – like super!, we have said we want to make fewer regulations, make fewer laws, simplify the whole thing. However, with this law, the whole thing is now somewhat complicated. In principle, Mr Minister – I have already told you in committee – it is possible to arrange this with a list of awareness-raising services you, Mr Minister, or the Ministry of Police, to the administrative authorities. All of this would be possible right now. That is, in principle, we do not need the law in this form at all. Let me take a look at that. Mr Scherak mentioned earlier that no Turkish politician was in Austria and we did not need this regulation at all. - That's not quite right. There were already Turkish politicians there. In my home town of Hörbranz am Bodensee in Vorarlberg was a Turkish politician who wanted to lead his election campaign there under the title book presentation. I would like to thank our ÖVP mayor Karl Hehle, who may have already looked through the whole thing in advance and then prohibited it. That was also in the media. Ladies and gentlemen, this very example shows that we do not need the law at all, because it was possible to do so before. That's the point. I wonder what you're making an extra law for if you can handle it anyway. - So a law more that Austria does not need. [[Abg. Plessl: With what reason did he forbid this?]] - You have to ask him that. [[Abg. Plessl: You know it!]] Let's go on! We discussed in committee. My previous speaker, Mrs Diesner-Wais, said that this is a first step and it is still a lot to change in this area. I made a proposal – better to say, Mr Rosenkranz has referred to it and then I have implemented it – and put this request for a postponement. The government parties – just so that the viewers get a little bit of this from the screens – are making a request for a postponement for almost every opposition request they do not want to implement; they say, you have to talk about it, you have to discuss it, and that is why you can't decide. This is so long until it is so chewed that the government parties then make a similar application, and it will be implemented. In the present case, it was so that, on the ÖVP side, from the government side, it was quite clear that it should have been postponed because the law for a decision-making is clearly not mature enough. But what do you do? – One rejects the request for a postponement and pushes the template into the plenary session so that one can have a headline and say: We have now amended the Convention, as we have announced! – In principle, this is, quite honestly, for the fish! If I look at this now, I can say that there are a few points in it, because of which I was a learned police officer – and I was at many demonstrations, you can believe me; I was at the Vorarlberg unit for eight years and I have many Kurd demonstrations and what I know everything – I can say, actually, the authority could already regulate this today. That means that the zones that are set up there – 150 meters, 50 meters – are not necessary, because the authority can prescribe where the area demonstration is to take place, and if it is 500 meters further away, because it fits for security reasons, then it is so! You just have to trust yourself, Minister! I have told you that you may just have to ask your authorities or give them a clear directive as to how to do so, then we do not need the law at all. Why do we – like a month ago – unravel laws and see that we have fewer regulations, and press back into something that we need to reform anyway? Mr Steinhauser has already said that it will be unconstitutional, and, and so. - I think that's crazy. We will not agree to this bill either, because the world does not need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20663	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20684	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I would like to start with another aspect, namely the aspect of why this extension takes place from 24 to 48 hours. First of all, from the point of view of a policeman and on the basis of figures available: There were 10 330 congregations in Austria in the previous year. I can throttle this on all the federal states and I can say that there are in Burgenland 48, in Carinthia 116, in Lower Austria 367, in Upper Austria 516, in Salzburg 200, in Styria 318, in Tirol 475, in Vorarlberg 74 and in Vienna a total of 8 153 congregations. 8 153 congregations, which at the first moment does not sound excessive, but divided by 365 days, these are 22 actions per day in a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] – Yes, Mr Steinhauser, I am right in giving you the small things that do not necessarily require a lot of police, including those listed below. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Eastern eggs, for example!]] But not there are those 30 events a year that are not registered; they are not there. I think the application deadline is good, because I can also remember other discussions here in this House, where it is always said that the public service needs so much money. But whether there are overtimes now or not, is there in principle meat? – If the official has 24 hours of service on Friday, and then has to remain on Saturday for a demonstration, then this is currently happening on an overtime basis, or colleagues from the federal states must be taken to Vienna to ensure safety. As you said, Mr Steinhauser, the number of bans has been exactly 26 in the previous year, only 26! We agreed in the committee that we should make this committee review, and you also felt that it was a good thing to do so. I have, of course, looked at these 40 opinions, as have you and colleague Scherak, and I can say: Of course, there are concerns, but I am convinced that some of these concerns can also be eliminated. On the ad hoc collections in principle: These can also take place in the future, we have been so promised. I would just have a request, Minister of the Interior: Unfortunately, in demonstrations it is always the case that, on the one hand, the one who organises the demonstration and is also responsible for the demonstration, and on the other hand, the police are represented as opponents. This could be countered, and there would be no need to change the law, but perhaps it could be done on the way of passing. Once again, after the demonstration, a discussion could be held with the meeting logger in order to achieve so easily a better cooperation between the police and those who demonstrate. This could be an evaluation at the same time, and improvements could be addressed. Perhaps this would also help to reduce this deep gap that exists between police and demonstrators. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My appeal to you, Minister: Perhaps you should do this not only in individual cases, but perhaps it could be a rule that you do so regularly after demonstrations. The extension of the application period to one week in the case of the participation of representatives of foreign states, international organisations, other international law subjects, whether derivative or original, I think is good because Austria has a very simple obligation to do so and has signed contracts that these persons are particularly protected. As far as the protection area is concerned, Mr Hagen, just as you have now done, it is to be said that there has always been the 50 meters to date. So what's the stretch at 150 meters? – A stone's throw far to protect the opponents so far that no one meets the other with one stone. There are also police officers in between. This is why we have created the possibility of extending the distance to 150 meters. 50 meters were so far Usus and practice, and they can also be subverted if there is a building or a huge wall on site. This too is regulated by this law that this should be quite simply possible. The law itself is also based on the fact that one refers to the EMRK, namely Article 16, which is also clearly recorded in the explanations. There is already the possibility, in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the ECHR, to provide for and ensure additional restrictions and criminal threats for foreign demonstrations. I do not think this contradicts, so we will support this change of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20733	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20754	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. If you – as Mr Otto Pendl makes it more often and as Mr Schabhüttl has done today – invite the opposition to go a bit of the way with the government groups, then you should not put the opposition in the head as it is today. We already understand that we have only a brief committee opinion, but this understanding will end if you simply remove a delay request with your remaining majority, despite the concern expressed by all the opposition forces. I can't say that differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you still claim that you would take the opposition's objections seriously, then this is actually almost white sarcasm. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we want to contribute to a reasonable solution. That is why Mr Rosenkranz has also tabled this amendment today to show you a way out of the dead end, into which you yourself have entered. It is clear that we have just heard from Mrs. Lueger that the times have changed and that the number of meetings and events is constantly increasing – more than 8,000 last year, for example, only in Vienna – and the legislator has to respond to that. For this reason, we also say: Yes, 48 hours time limit for an advertisement we consider to be factually justified. This is also necessary in order for the authority to react accordingly. It is not factually justified, and above all very worrying, but the regulation now provided for, that meetings serving a political activity of third-country nationals may be prohibited by the Federal Government if the foreign policy interests of the Republic of Austria are opposed, ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be that the approval or prohibition of a meeting will be a decision of discretion by political parties and we are at risk of becoming politically extortionable. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Rosenkranz pointed out the example with the Dalai Lama because in such a case we could be put under pressure from the Chinese government if it announced that we wanted to delete billions of heavy business. This is a realistic possibility that would then arise, and therefore, in no case should foreign policy interests alone become a criterion of assessment for the prohibition of a meeting. For this reason, exactly this request that we have tabled is the way out of the dead end, because that, as we think, is actually in line with the intentions of the government parties or the applicant. We then have the opportunity to take action against political events by foreign Heads of Government, Heads of State or other government representatives when security is at risk if they oppose international standards of international law and so on. I hope you will agree to this request. You really have the opportunity today to prove that your offers for cooperation are not just lip recognition, but that you are serious about it. After all, if you don't do it and go over it again, you may have to let yourself fall into the question at which level you eventually go and whether you won't land somewhere in Turkey at Erdoğan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20808	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20830	Mr President. Minister! High house! The right of demonstration is one of the most important pillars of democracy, in which, I believe, we all agree. Similarly, we agree that it must not be abused in any way. I would now like to go a little bit into the basics and briefly highlight the right to demonstrate, because this has come into the discussion. I think it is infantile simply to view the right of demonstration as an unlimited, sacrosanct right. It must be allowed to discuss how we deal with the right of demonstration today, because there is no right that is unlimited. Every right has its limit where other people are affected or are thereby disadvantaged. That's what we call the weighting of goods. For example, there will be no one's idea to register a demonstration for 3 o'clock in the morning or to hold a fun demo at the cemetery. We agree on this too. However, the tendency in the legalisation and the thinking of society is that you always want to have the right to everything. This reminds me a little of a child-like policy of existence, if, every time you scream, you are immediately spoiled by the state. That's what we should question and think about. It is also interesting that those who so very much insist on the unlimited freedom of demonstration – I now deliberately look in the green sector – in another area, namely freedom of expression in the forums on the Internet, are very quick with advertisements according to the hate paragraphs and other ads and want to establish a opinion dictatorship there, as one imagines the good green world. That doesn't really fit in from my point of view. You should think about whether your thinking on this subject field is congruent in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] From my point of view, there is nothing against limiting the right to demonstrate, but to regulate it. I think we should all think about whether there should be demonstration zones in Vienna and the big cities, whether there should be demonstration zones, where we can demonstrate fully at certain times. Is that supposed to happen in the sense of, for example, businessmen in the 1st century? District in Vienna? I've got patients who have their business there, and they're crazy about the demonstrations. The good citizens also suffer when they are in a state of congestion because of the senseless demonstrations of fun on Friday evening, when, with any concern that may be justified from the point of view of the demonstrators, it is possible to deal with it elsewhere for hours. I think we should think about it. [[Abg. Neubauer: Lie down in the green!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – No, I say we have to think about regulation and not about a restriction. It's pointless if we let a right be exploited so far that it's only more misused. It must go into the minds of the worldly left that this right cannot go endlessly far. You don't have to be a lawyer, but it's enough for the bourgeois house mind to understand that this can't be the meaning and purpose of a demonstration right. Your party comrade, the mayor of Vienna, has already spoken similar words. So if you get in touch with him, he might be able to help you, at least in terms of Vienna. There are very massive and sensible, reasonable considerations to regulate the right of demonstration. But that doesn't mean you have to restrict it. That's where you need to differentiate. We are always talking about different approaches to the problems – and suddenly everything breaks down: One points out that freedom of expression is a matter of freedom of expression, and the other calls out loud when it comes to some kind of restriction or a mere apparent restriction in a demonstration. We should think about it. I believe that we also need people who, on their own, think about whether to approve a demonstration or not. There used to be a judge, the U-director who decided whether someone was in custody or not. He's been abolished. We could just as well think about whether there should be judges, trained lawyers who, together with the authority, decide whether a demonstration is useful. Should a bathrobe demonstration block the ring for three hours, so that all the Viennans who want to go home to their families are in traffic jams? Is such a thing right? Has such a thing been thought of in the first ideas of democracy for freedom of demonstration at all? We should talk about this, because that is a very concrete citizen's concern. I know enough people, especially in Vienna, who have the snout full of the excessive and exuberant demonstrations. We should also talk about this, please in a survey. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I think it's a very useful idea that we really talk to Tacheles there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20900	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20921	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Convention Law 1953 is to be amended. The extension of the deadline for the notification of a so-called assembly from 24 to 48 hours is a correct approach. It is essential to strengthen the protection of non-participants, such as businesses, business premises or car owners – we have already heard this today. A so-called protection zone is intended to ensure and ensure the smooth running of demonstrations. The protection zone shall be up to 150 meters, but shall be at least 50 meters. In addition, the government is given the opportunity to prevent foreign politicians from holding elections under certain conditions. A little under this pretext, this change of law is also presented here. However, the right of demonstration must not be restricted under any circumstances. The level shall be determined in advance by the Authority. It may already be – and I believe it is also right – that the 48-hour frist is a relief for the police, but in principle we would not need this law in this form – I think Mr Hagen has mentioned it – because it is simply not mature enough. Why, according to the Minister, should we hold another survey? One could now, if one wanted to, empower the authorities with regard to these restrictions. In any case, the right of demonstration must not be restricted, although we do not need foreign elections in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20951	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e20973	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Assembly Law dates back to 1953, and this alone, I believe, already explains why it is necessary to subject the whole law to a change and a review, namely whether it will withstand today's circumstances. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Constitution is from 1920!]] [[Call the ÖVP: 1929!]] . But you also know, Mr Rosenkranz, because you address the federal constitution that it has been very often innovative, much, much more often, only the administrative jurisdiction we changed only four years ago, and that was the biggest reform of Austrian federal constitutional law. However, I would like to stick to the law of the assembly: Since the foundations of this right of assembly are already very, very old, it is really necessary that we address today's circumstances, especially when I think of the electronic means to which messages are linked today, performances, perhaps also by politicians made by means of a video message. It can easily be considered that this is not covered by the current provisions of the law of the assembly and that this can lead to difficulties in the interpretation. That is why this rework is necessary. I also think it is right that the Federal Minister has already announced that he is generally subject to a review of this right of assembly and that he may be making it completely new. The execution of the right of assembly – despite all the unknowings before everyone here thinks that this could be all you have said –: I also have a great deal of understanding of the opposition's concern that the rules are always constitutional. To this end, I would like to say that the European Convention on Human Rights is always based on every simple law and that it is therefore perfectly clear that any executive authority, including the Federal Government, can always or cannot prohibit a assembly by means of the Convention on Human Rights. If, for example, a meeting is prohibited, then there is an appeal against it, and with this appeal you can go to the Constitutional Court and, if you wish, to the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, every authority is already bound by the Convention on Human Rights, so I cannot imagine, under the present conditions, that there is any authority that would unlawfully prohibit a assembly of human rights. But one thing is also important to me in the whole discussion, especially as Wiener – and Mrs. Lueger has already mentioned it –: Most of the loads caused by demonstrations have to be borne by the Viennans. More than 8,000 demonstrations burden life in Vienna, social life and economic life. This is a point which is equivalent to the law of the assembly, namely the fundamental right to freedom of employment. I think that if we are going to have a full review of the law of the assembly, it is also important that we give the assembly authorities the opportunity to also consider the interests, especially in the sense that the fundamental right to freedom of employment is equivalent to the fundamental right to freedom of assembly and that the fundamental right to property must also be safeguarded accordingly. I believe that these are points that we must take into account when weighing. In the interests of the population, the economy, the workers and the workers, this balance must always be made evenly so that we are not pushed unilaterally into a direction that then no longer corresponds to the other fundamental rights. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21025	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21049	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the galleries and in front of the screens! This is, of course, a very sensitive issue, but, Mr Kumpitsch, we have always discussed matters objectively, we have agreed on many issues. Even with the questions we disagreed with, I had the impression that, since we knew each other, the discussion was factual. One thing I've already made clear: All who sit here are democratically and legally legitimate, and if the majority of this House decides something, then we do not end up with Erdoğan. I am very clear about this, because if you represent it, that is not a living parliamentaryism. That is what I am saying in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] In short, because all the critical points have already been addressed: Now let me tell you one more thing, which is not everything possible in the law in force?- Oh, my God! – There are some reasons why this discussion has existed at all. If there had been no history of the visits of high-ranking Turkish politicians – not only in Austria but in several European states – we would not have taken up the subject at that time. It will not stop at all, and Mr. Scherak has rightly said – I have also listened to you, so you can listen to me: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] If we act responsibly, we cannot really see how a mayor tries to find reasons for not having to allow the events to happen somewhere on the ground in his distress. – This is a question of the general state, and therefore, please, the general state must be decided at the highest level. I'm sorry, but the One more, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: It cannot be repeatedly formulated in advance that the supreme bodies or authorities do not legally decide according to the laws in force. I also keep myself clear about this. That is what I am saying, because the Federal Government is a supreme organ, please beautiful! It is ten times preferable to me that not the bra or a police director is involved, but that responsibility is to be borne at the top level. That was the background, and then we tried to solve this question. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true!]] By the way, all the constitutional lawyers with whom we have spoken have said that this holds constitutional and that is constitutional. [[Abg. Brosz: You have said that often!]] - Yes, I do. You should take this question seriously, however, because the reasons why you are opposed are very different. They have a completely different background. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The question of distances and meters: So please, Mr Rosenkranz, talk to your AUF representatives once, but we can also all talk to our staff representatives or also to the service representatives. This has been a huge problem for years! Most demonstrations – all previous speakers have made it – take place in Vienna. If it is now on Thursday, a demonstration takes place on Friday, then you have to imagine how many hundreds then – in order not to speak of thousands at very large events – are under command. They all have families. The timetables are already one month ahead, and we are involved in these stories. What do you think is the joy of those affected? – 48 hours is not really long anyway, but a discharge for those police officers who have family and children and perhaps still live 300 kilometres away from Vienna, there would be enough 100 kilometres already; of which we have a lot of them, Minister of State. That's the background. Quite openly also on the question of these meter stories: Of course, it can now be decided by the authority, but do you know how often the authorities have been beaten because they have made decisions that others – who always see this from a different perspective – have not liked? Now we've tried not to put that around the poor head of authority, but to regulate it in the law by saying we're staying at 50 meters, but it can be up to a maximum of 150 meters. We have discussions behind us, where it was said: Yes, do they all see demonstrations and territorial demonstrations coming together? – All of this has practical backgrounds, which we have discussed for years. So to say here that you don't know what happened, I can't understand that at all unless you hide the current legal stock. But you can't, because you always have to take into account the current legal situation. What I liked very much, Mr Federal Minister, was – I say quite openly – that you offered at the committee meeting to make a survey on the overall question – not only on the detailed questions, but on the overall question – no matter how. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Within this framework, we can discuss this very widely, with the experts as well as with all those concerned. I believe, however, that it is important that we now show responsibility that we are not watching and that the mayors, a bra or a police director remain, but that this is properly regulated. We show responsibility, so we will decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21132	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude, as I see it. We shall vote on the draft law in 1610. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Walter Rosenkranz, Mr Hagen, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Hagen, colleagues have tabled an amendment which amends paragraph 3 and the deletion of paragraph 6 concerning § 16 para. 2 included. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on No on the Turkish death penalty referendum in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:04:19]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Mr Matthias Köchl, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Commercial Code 1994 (GewO) (2081/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21233	Finally, we reach the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21260	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! I have come across a point in the trade order, which is a bit strange to me, because of this request. Imagine that you would show your neighbors or report a crime somewhere and then would be a bonus from these penalty payments if punishments were imposed! I think that would be strange to you. However, in the Chamber of Commerce it is Usus, in the commercial order it is even anchored with § 372. In concrete terms, that means that every man and woman can, if he or she calls a crime, that is to say, in transit, find somewhere, make an ad, and that is followed by the district administration authority. However, the strange thing about this is that the Chamber of Economics, in Austria, even employs employees, differently structured in the federal states. At present, there are seven employees in the various federal states who are only concerned with this issue. I refer to these employees as chief hunters, because at the end the Chamber of Commerce benefits from this. In the last ten years, the €19 million – that is not little, €19 million – has been received by the Chamber of Commerce from fines. They must be broken on the tongue again: The bra has the work, the state does the work, pursues these ads, penalties are prescribed, the This section will then be transferred to the Chamber of Commerce. Now the counter-arguments will come, I know these: The board uses this money for socially in need of entrepreneurs. – However, this is the task of the Chamber of Commerce, which is also held elsewhere. I believe that the Chamber should question its apparatus a little bit about the tenfold structures. Why do we need all the bodies nine times and at the federal level another tenth time? We could save a few million euros. These €19 million, which the Chamber of Commerce receives from fines, are immediately to be removed from the law. This cross-financing is simply not okay. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Themessl.]] Furthermore, there is still a need for data protection concerns. A procedure has even been initiated in Tyrol because the Chamber of Commerce did not have the legal basis to store the data from this anti-push. I would also like to mention on this occasion that we have the financial police. We are not, of course, opposed to the fight against foot-and-mouth disease per se, but for this there is the financial police and not private or professional detectives as in Upper Austria. There are professional detectives there who pursue this on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce. This is very strange and is urgently deleted from the law so that we have legal certainty here and so that we can abolish these strange head-money premiums. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21312	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21333	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Matthias Köchl! [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, please, say something!]] What fines are these? – In most cases, fines for illicit commercial practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] Who are the victims of this breach of law? – Entrepreneurs who are working properly on a business card pay their taxes, these are the victims. [[Abg. Oillingers: The workers too...!]] – No, wrong, Karl, because they are paid according to the collective contract, regardless of whether the business is bad, and if the company goes into bankruptcy, they get their money paid out of the insolvency fee fund, so this call is not true as an argument! The injured are the others in the industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] What you want with this request is that the money that now flows through the Chamber of Commerce for the socially needy, so for the victims of it, no longer comes there, but into the general budget. So quite honestly, this is not quite the position I am used to by the Green Group. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] In addition, I remember that many here in the House believe that the penalty fees for too fast driving on the road or for driving without a driver's license – that would be even more comparable – should flow into road construction; it's best intended, even there, to the benefit of others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] We also have this system, and, honestly, I do not really see a reason to change it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I believe that the damage caused by behaviour should also be beneficial at the end of the day, through training, consultation and support for the socially needy. Your request, which is now at first reading, is weak. Better, we'll leave it as it is. Mr Oellinger's call for tender was even weaker, because he did not vote at all, because in this case the employees automatically came to their salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21420	Mr Mag. Lettenbichler has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21441	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I too am hard, not with this request, but with the justification. It would have been more honest, Mr Köchl, if you had said, as you had said in various committees, that you had a problem with the Chamber of Commerce, with the compulsory membership, with the structure per se, and did not pick out a paragraph with which you once again expressed your opposition to the Chamber of Commerce and to other chambers. You have said that you know the arguments that we will not approach this request in committee, but we have the right to make these arguments, which are not the same ones you have said, of course here in the plenary room heard and visible to all. In my opinion, the Push control argument is a very weak one, and the colleague has already carried it out, and this cross-financing, that there should be a bonus for the Chamber of Commerce, I am also entitled to apologise. It is taken in the hands of socially in need of money and, of course, for economic promotion, and I see this commitment as a benefit. In other areas away from the Chamber, we may also need to think about a dedication of purpose, but we cannot approach this request and your formulation and your tried-and-tested preparation of arguments. However, this is not the issue today, but of course it is in the next committee. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21475	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21496	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker meant taking a point out of the trade order. [[Abg. Auer: Before speakers, not predecessors!]] - Pre-voicer, excuse me. Mr Köchl, I think that's right. Over the past few years, I have repeatedly removed individual cases from the trade order in order to show some absurd demands that have been delayed for a long time or absurd demands to show how in need of reform would actually be the complete trade order. My question is addressed to Mr Matznetter and Mr Haubner: When can we expect the great announced, almost a year ago announced by the Minister for Economic Affairs, great innovation in the trade order? Until now, it was neither in committee nor in plenary, and Mr Köchl has rightly shown a thing that has been done. I'll tell you why. Mr Matznetter, you are completely wrong if you say that the companies that properly supply their taxes, which deliver social taxes, are the victims. You're only right about that. Who's the main victim? – The main victim is the Minister of Finance because he avoids taxes. The main victims are the social security companies, because the bufferer does not pay anything. The Chamber is only partially damaged, because the Prusher of course does not pay a chamber deposit, that is clear, but punishments that are collected by the Authority then return to the Chamber so that it then so practically distributes it according to its opinion, I think already a strong piece. Now you need to look at the distribution: There is also a charity at the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy – which is very well – but there is a reporting obligation and quite clear, proper award criteria for such grants. There's no such thing in the chamber. No one knows who has received the €19 million distributed by the individual chambers in the countries over the last ten years – this is done behind closed doors. And if you also know that the Chamber of Commerce consists of more than two thirds, I say to you: These funds are nothing but cross-funding for the Economic Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21533	Next, Mr Schellhorn. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21554	Mr President. When it comes to – I am allowed to join my previous speakers – the fact that these penalties, which flow back to the Chamber, should benefit in need of companies, I can also recall the blessed Rudolf Sallinger, who then introduced Chamber 2. He has introduced a chamber envelope 2 temporarily, probably only for one, two months, but it is still the case that this chamber envelope 2 is to the benefit of the needy companies. The Chamber of Commerce is an even greater savings bank than the Chamber of Labour, and both could do something for their forced members because of the two current agenda items. I come back to the Chamber of Workers again, because to this day the Chamber of Labour has not yet declared itself in this Causa when it comes to the fact that, especially in the case of the minimum wage, the employees get more net of gross. They do not yet give up on social taxes, on these € 7.2 million, they do not yet give up on the fact that employees are even more removed from their pockets when they raise a minimum wage. Secondly, it is also true that these chamber contributions and these fines are particularly perfide, because of course the Chamber of Commerce will not complain of an entrepreneur as an organisation, but it is certainly one of the officials who wants to put the installer in the barriers and says: Now we're going to carnize this once so that I'm going to get a little less! – In this respect, I must insist very strongly that these payments, which were also spoken of by Mr Köchl, flow to the Chambers of State. In the Chambers of State, it is intrepid to the no longer going, and there are probably the same sub-units established, where these funds are then hidden, where employees or women are also paid by employees of the Chamber. That's such a micky mouse or minimundus fillon story. In this respect, we will discover a lot of things in the near future. I believe that this is the first step and that sometime you will voluntarily give up the blockade and the ostro-sclerosis, this hardening, will be rinsed so that this forced membership can get away. That's what it's all about. It's about taking the money away from the company by punishment and at the same time... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jank.]] – Probably, yes, Mr Jank, perhaps we'll speculate on it again in any pension fund. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This can happen, but these are the members' forced and fines. I am particularly sorry if you are talking about how to deal with the funds of the forced members.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21605	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21627	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciative by-laws and by-laws of the Court of Justice of the European Watch the gallery and in front of the TV sets! Mr Schellhorn has just pointed out, and I think it is important that § 372 of the Commercial Code, addressed by Mr Köchl in this motion, is missing. We live in an open country, as we have discussed today in many different dimensions, and there are, in addition to the compulsory membership contributions, also such sanctions that are carried out by the County Headship for ads, and the funds are then diverted into funds that are difficult to understand, meaning that the funds are to be allocated to socially active associations and eligible members. But who forgives these money? . I believe that the Chamber of Commerce should be an example if one speaks of economics when one speaks of free competition, when one speaks of international markets – we will discuss CETA and TTIP tomorrow – that such overdue paragraphs are finally suspended. We can only support this, especially in the sense of transparency, especially in the sense of competition, which one should support, but in a fair way, of course with clear legal requirements, clear legal regulations, but not a lazy compromise, where the funds are still being foreign to them. I think we can say that in this form. That is why we support Mr Köchl's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21657	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 2081/A to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:20:41]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-04-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e21692	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2109/A(E) to 2129/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 7.21 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
