ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4104	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'll open the 169. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 165 and 166. Meeting of 1. ==References====External links== Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the ==References====External links==* Official website Deputies of Hakel, Kucharovich, Dr. Nachbaur, Walter Rauch, Mag. Schrangl, singer, Mag. Schwennner and Ing. Schellenbacher. [[09:07:36]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4141	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I honor myself To inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with resolution of 8. March 2017, ZI.S210.010/1-BEV/17, Federal Minister Alois STÖGER deposed from the office of continuation of the administration of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has appointed Mr Pamela RENDI-WAGNER as Federal Minister for Health and Women.” [[09:08:13]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4168	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4312	I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:08:35]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4334	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, Mr Pilz, to take urgent note of the written question put to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning the actions taken by the Republic of Austria against the Airbus Group before the entry into the agenda. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be made after completion of the agenda, but at the earliest three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at about 12 noon. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4360	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the order of business A day block time of 2 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 27, FPÖ 25, Green 21 and NEOS and STRONACH each 11 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time agreement presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:10:08]] Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the accession of the new member of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4408	We now reach the declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the accession of the new member of the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council in accordance with the request given here. I am now the first to give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4439	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The new appointment of a minister – the occasion of these statements – has become necessary, as you know, by the much too early death of our colleague Sabine Oberhauser. We know that we have a place to occupy that is an absolute key area when it comes to questions of a solidarity society. Our task is to ensure equal opportunities and fair access in the area of women's policy, but also health policy in our country. If I say it is our task, then I am convinced that it will be necessary to give full support to the new minister in her field of activity. It will have to work on interfaces of our society. This means that it not only needs the support of the entire Federal Government for its concerns, but ultimately also the support of the High House, the countries and the institutions that play an important role in the areas of health and women. Our health system is one of the demonstration systems around the world. Today, we can still rightly point out that we have standards here in Austria that are looking for the same in the rest of the world. We also know, however, that this health policy faces major new challenges. The most important thing is to ensure that everyone in our country, regardless of their income and social status, will find the best possible conditions in terms of access to the health system. In this context, I would also like to point out – and I am convinced that Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner will address this in detail – that we are also faced with a number of new requirements in this area, which are simply and simply created by the changed situation in life: It is now a development in our society – a very positive and gratifying one – that children born today have a good chance to grow 100 years old, which, of course, sets completely new demands on the system, on its financing and ultimately on its entire orientation. The second major issue that the new Minister takes over is women's policy. We know that 38 years after Johanna Dohnal took over the State Secretary's position in the Federal Government, women's policy is still facing major challenges. The new minister will be able to continue her work with a story and a tradition, in view of which one can rightly claim that she will be on the shoulders of Riessin with her work and activity. Johanna Dohnal, if you want to do so, has not only remained a model for us to this day, but we also know that two major contributions in this field have been made here today: Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, but also Doris Bures, in her capacity as Women's Minister, have acquired great merit in the matter. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] However, we also know that we still have many open fields, especially in women's policy; the problem is known to all of us. We know that while equality between men and women is being postulated on the paper, there are still major deficits in reality. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You can already see that at the government bank!]] This is also one of the reasons why the Austrian Federal Government has decided in its work programme to make policy proposals that can specifically influence women's life realities. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What about the government? One, two, three – three women!]] First of all, I should like to point out the demand to increase the minimum wage to €1500. We know that of the 300 000 people who are not yet at this level of income, 200 000 are women, and it is our goal to change as quickly as possible, so that people who work 40 hours a week in our country can actually live from their incomes. We also know that the question of the elderly is one that concerns women in particular because more than a third of women are retired from unemployment, which naturally has a lasting impact on the income situation of women. We also know that the women's participation in working life is a major issue where we are not yet where we have to go, which naturally also has to do with the issue of childcare facilities. These are an important prerequisite for the whole family; this concerns men as well as women, but we know that the reality of life in our society is once again such that often, when incomes become scarce and it is about how to provide childcare, women have to go back. In this sense, I wish the new Minister much success, I am looking forward to good cooperation and may ask you to support the new colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4508	Thank you many times, Federal Chancellor. I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4532	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government, in particular Ms Rendi-Wagner! Ladies and gentlemen! My thanks go first to Dr. Sabine Oberhauser. I have respect for how she has dealt with her illness, and in particular for how she has encouraged many others who are in a similar situation. I am grateful to her for the fact that in recent years, because of her competence and also her kind, she has not only moved many topics but also brought them to solutions. I can only say a few examples: The topic of ELGA was very contradictory, which affected access, but has now been a success project, and we are also quite recognized in the international field, with a pioneering role. She has also dealt with the Medical Law and the Hospital Working Time Act. This was a really difficult problem, where there were also many interfaces to my department, for example what the medical universities were doing. We have found a regulation with an eye measure, which is also viable and favourable to quality. However, we have also seen what her ability as a representative of interest has reached, that even on highly controversial topics – the prohibition of smoking – a common solution was possible, which, if we look at international development now, is simply contemporary. Even countries such as the Czech Republic, which have always been mentioned as an example of not having to make a regulation, have now also introduced such regulations. With these three examples, I would also like to thank Sabine Oberhauser once again on behalf of my group. [[General condolences.]] My thanks and my respect also apply to the new Minister, Dr Rendi-Wagner. She has already worked in a responsible position in the Federal Minister for Health and Women in an important position. On the one hand, it is anything but easy to get in, if the minister with whom you have worked for a long time is no longer there – that is also difficult personally – but on the other hand, it is an advantage as regards professional competence and the possibility of getting into the topics relatively quickly. This advantage in connection with the values of experience will also be necessary, as the health sector is one of the most important areas in society at all. Everyone knows the saying: “Everyone wants to grow old, but nobody wants to be it!” – The very fact that people are getting old, however, implies increasing costs for the health and care system. In this context, we have problems, starting with training. In my view, it is already a difficult problem that we have not completely solved when many doctors we train in our system go to other countries. So how can we make the doctor's profession so attractive that most doctors who are trained here stay here? I believe that an important step has been taken, especially with the Hospital Employment Act and its wage increases, but other points have also been important. The second point in this context is the question: How can I ensure civil administration in all regions? – And this is at a time when many things are in a process of change from the Internet to the self-medication, as is the case with us, where there is an intensive discussion about the introduction of Primary Health Care Centers. This is not only about money issues, but also about service issues and also about cooperation with physicians and their professional groups. All these are controversial topics, as we were only able to follow on the radio yesterday. In general, however, there are also system questions, interface problems and problems related to the local health telephone. Thus, for example, it has become natural to look for treatment in the hospitals, namely to visit the ambulances immediately instead of first going to the house doctor, which is particularly true in urban regions. There, too, you have to push back and look for other solutions. I do not want to get even more detailed into the field of health, but rather to make you aware that health issues are difficult, challenging and complex issues for the solution, which are also related to health issues. For example, prevention, especially with regard to vaccinations, is an important question of the future. I am now coming to another subject area, which was very important in these days in terms of thematic processing and had a special topicality due to last week's women's day, namely women's. In the Federal Government, for example, it is a particular concern to close the income shears between men and women. This is a difficult task because for decades something has developed that is not easy to counter. However, I believe that the introduction of a minimum wage was an important step towards countering it because it provides an important point of approach in terms of cultural change and system change. Another point in this context is already the exemplary role the State can play. A few years ago, we decided to introduce a corresponding women's quota at the supervisory council level, where the state has a right of enforcement, in public enterprises and in close-to-state establishments. We now have the interim report and can really say: We have gone a path that has led to the fact that we now have about 40 percent – even slightly above – of female supervisory councils in this system. The goal was to have 35 percent by next year. The result thus shows that the state can take on a pioneering role. The crucial question now is: Do we do that for the private sector? We have already had this in the corporate governance rules of the listed companies, but then in the government we have decided to buy a quota of 30 percent for the larger companies for the first time, knowing... [[Abg. Lugar: Put this into the government!]] - Please? – I am now talking about companies and stock companies and the wage shear. [[Abg. Lugar: In the government you can put it into practice once!]] But, of course, you are right – in all areas of society, you have a model effect. [[Complementary of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I don't know if you noticed. With me in the ministry, in my area of responsibility, the women's rate is 50 percent in all management positions – in all! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In the field of universities, we already have the 50 percent quota in all collegiate bodies and partly an overfill. And my hope that we can really close the income shear is that now more women, girls are studying and that they are in leadership positions. It will therefore also be resolved from this page on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Schimanek.]] – What do you have to object to, Mrs Colleague? - Good. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not the puddle core!]] This is not only a matter for which the Minister is responsible, but also a matter on which all of us are concerned. There is, of course, also an interface to the woman's family minister, which is what the compatibility of family and work is about. Even here, as the values show, the objectives we have pursued in certain European processes have already been fulfilled or are on a good path. Ladies and gentlemen! I can conclude by saying: I believe that it has been highlighted that there is a very wide range of topics to be dealt with. I am pleased that we have a new, competent colleague in the government and wish her all the best and much success and I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4632	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Rendi-Wagner is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4653	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! It was exactly a week ago when the Chancellor informed me that he would like to introduce me as a new Minister for Health and Women. Since then, seven days have passed that, as you can imagine, were more than eventful: Exciting, intense, busy, sleepless – that's how the last seven days looked for me. The highlights in these seven days were on the one hand the Angelobung on Wednesday last week by the President of the Federal Republic and on the other – and this is certainly the second highlight of the seven days now – the presentation before you as the elected representatives of the Austrian women here in the Hohen Haus. It was not only really exciting and very special days for me personally, but it was also emotionally overshadowed days – and also the weeks before! – and I do not want to mention this here in Parliament either. It is very important for me to remind you here in Parliament of my predecessor Sabine Oberhauser, because right here in Parliament was a very important place for her work: as a parliamentarian, then as a health and later social spokesperson of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, finally as the Minister for Health and Women in this country. It has significantly shaped and shaped health and women's policy in the years in which it has worked here. As you all know, as section manager, I have been able to work very intensively with Sabine Oberhauser – and I say so deliberately. It was really very fruitful discussions, a very fruitful cooperation that we had, a very close and also very friendly relationship, and it is clear to me that in the field I have worked with her, namely in the field of health policy, I will definitely continue and implement many of the projects jointly designed, discussed and already launched. That's what I'm gonna do. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] But Sabine Oberhauser was not only a profound expert in the health system, but she was – and to say this here – quite, very important to me – above all a passionate women's fighter, a fighter for women's rights in this Land. It has been a special pleasure for me to be praised as a new Minister of Women on the International Women's Day on Wednesday last week. This also gave me the opportunity to meet many representatives of the various women's organizations of our country at a large event in our ministry on the same day, to discuss with them, to hear their concerns and also to discuss what has already been achieved in the last decades of projects in this field – our Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. Without these achievements in women's policy, I would probably not be standing here today, because it opened to me – as a girl, as a youth, as a student, and finally as a career woman – gates, which made it possible for me to penetrate the literally glass ceiling and stand here today. This has made the achievements of the last decades possible, but at the same time we have to say – and we discussed this last Wednesday – that much remains to be achieved. Where do I see the great challenges in the area of women's policy? What's going on? – Let’s look at the facts! The fact is that women in this country still earn more than 20 percent less than their male colleagues for the same or similar work. The fact is that the compatibility of work and children is usually – not in all cases, but mostly – still on the shoulders of women. The fact is that women are very often affected by violence – every fifth woman in this country – mostly in the community of acquaintances or families. This is a very precarious situation. This is exactly what we need to face! These are the challenges that we must face together today and in the future too! Women's policy is equality policy, but it is also social policy. It is because of social policy because, if women in this country are better, society is also better and we all benefit from it. In this sense, it must be our common concern and desire – not just that of the Federal Government, but of all of us – to enforce the concerns of women today and in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Certainly the most pressing concern – and that has already been mentioned; I am pleased that all of this has already been mentioned and important today – is the closing of the wage shears. If we finally end this women's policy chapter, we will close the wage shears between men and women! An important, yes, the most important measure – and there are many that we need, but the primary measure – is the demand for a minimum wage of €1500. And why is this at the beginning the most important demand? – Because 200 000 women in this country still live and work below this wage level, which is an unacceptable situation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In my view, another contribution to the closure of the wage shear is undoubtedly the improvement of the compatibility of work and children. Important measures that we need to take in this area are: a comprehensive, high-quality extension of childcare – this requires cooperation – and a comprehensive expansion of all day schools and, last but not least, the introduction of the second free kindergarten year. These are important measures so that more women can bring professional goals, children and families together. Let us look more closely at the issue of violence against women! Women are affected to a high degree. Let us put all our forces in our power of action. To prevent these situations of violence! Any woman threatened or affected by a violent situation must be able to find contact points, such as in the form of women's homes or violence centres. I will strengthen the financial security of these contact points. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not just about women's policy. As you know, I'm also a Minister of Health. I'd like to tell you very briefly about myself. I originally come from the field of medical research, is a specialist in tropical medicine, has studied and worked a lot in the field of vaccination, infectious diseases, tropical medicine, and abroad, but also at the Medical University of Vienna. And as you know, since 2011, I have been head of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women and I am responsible for the field of public health and medical matters. In this area I – and I have already mentioned it – worked very strongly and intensively with Alois Stöger at the beginning and then with Sabine Oberhauser and was allowed to co-design politics from the perspective of the technical area. It has always been very fruitful implementation steps for me, which we have been able to take, which have not least led me to the knowledge and have moved me to take this step to stand here today. The goal of a modern health policy must be that people in this country not only live longer but that they live longer in health. And why is it so interesting to look at this more closely? – Because we know that there are people and groups of people who find it easier to live healthier than others. When we look at the Austrian map, we note that there are regions and districts where there is actually a lower life expectancy and lower health opportunities for people there than in other districts and regions of that country. We must look at the causes of this imbalance, this health inequality. And the causes are obvious: There are uneven educational opportunities, uneven income relationships and uneven social status. These are the most important so-called health determinants, influences on our health. We must look at these issues carefully, and we must keep on doing so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] How do we do that? – Not with the pointing finger: You need to feed better, you have to move more!, no, we need to create framework conditions that support people, to live healthier, to make it easier for them to live healthier. And we need partners who create these framework conditions for people in this country who allow them to live a healthy, longer, happy life in well-being. But if people get sick at the end of the day, there must be no question of guilt. People in this country must be able to rely, if they get sick, on a high-quality, efficient and solidary health system. And I'll make myself strong for that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] How does an efficient, high-quality health system or health care system look? – The change of time requires modernising and further developing the health system. We need to look at the changed needs of patients, people, the population, and we also need to look at the changed needs of workers in this system, namely the doctors and doctors and all other health professionals. This is the starting point we have to consider: People are getting older, the need for care is increasing, the disease patterns are changing, and different requirements are given by changing lifestyles. We must consider all these factors when it comes to developing a modern, good, efficient and modern health system. There's one thing for me: The focus of a modern health system must always be on humans. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to focus very briefly on two issues in the field of health, which will certainly be on the agenda for the next few days and weeks. On the one hand, this is the theme of waiting times. Each one of you knows someone – either it's someone from the circle of acquaintances, or you know it from your own experience – who reports about long waiting times at CT or MRT. These are things that often cause people to doubt our health system, especially when people who make private funds for it come to meetings faster than those who do not. This is unacceptable, and therefore we will observe very closely the negotiations of the contracting parties in this area in the next few weeks, and if no solution is reached by the negotiation of parties, I will put in place a legislative proposal here in order to eliminate this unacceptable gap. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] This is also a significant contribution to more health justice in this country! It is undisputed that our health system faces challenges, and a possibility of a modern, advanced health system, especially in the field of primary care, is the modern primary supply system, which has already been mentioned. On the one hand, this system is intended to meet the needs of patients on the one hand with local, service-oriented, low-suspension services. On the other hand, it is intended to offer workers, doctors and other health professionals ideal working conditions that are attractive. It is intended to ensure that we do not have rural supply bottlenecks, that people are not forced to flee to the electoral system, but that this system is a solidar and efficient health system. We will secure that for the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! As Minister of Health and Women alone, I cannot bring all these measures on the road. I can think of them, discuss them, but I need you all to implement them. Not only my colleagues on the government bank, but also you here in Parliament are very important allies to implement all of these measures to improve health in this country and to increase gender equality. I hope for a good cooperation, I look forward to it, and I count you among my allies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4827	Thank you many times, Mrs. Federal Minister. Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4851	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Health Minister, we welcome you here today in a different position, because we already know you as a chief official in the Ministry of Health. You have also reported a little about the highlights of the last seven days. However, you forgot a highlight: That's what it was. Their entry into the SPÖ. This was especially a highlight for the SPÖ. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You are probably the only one who has entered the SPÖ since January, so you have increased the entry rate by 100 percent, while hundreds of others leave the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But that actually means, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, that you can only make a career in your team if you are a party member. You obviously do not have competence, because Mrs Rendi-Wagner is not the first person to enter the party shortly before she is fishing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] We have already experienced this elsewhere, for example, with the Minister of Education. So that's SPÖ competence. But now to you, Mrs Rendi-Wagner What you have done was not only to enter the SPÖ, but to sign with this signature at the end of the day an undiscovered check in health policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] You have actually signed all the wrong developments in this health system, that is, you have now become a contributor – through this signature. [[He-Rufe des Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Intrusion calls from MEPs Kirchgatterer, Schopf and Gisela Wurm.]] I don't know why you're so upset, just listen once! You're probably not going to dispute that we're in the wrong direction. Even the members of the government who have spoken have admitted that. Even the new Minister of Health said she needs allies, the health system is changing. I don't know why you're so upset – but it doesn't matter. I'll be right back to the Minister for Health: You yourself have already said that we are in a change – you have correctly analyzed that – and we need new answers and new systems in the health system. I am not entirely of your opinion that there is a need for ideological change, and there is no need for the PHC centres you so praised. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you want, and what you have praised and praised here, is a direction that we cannot support and will never support. What you want is to abolish the professions. You want to abolish the free doctor, you want to abolish the free pharmacist and instead order-bound, willing doctors who have to care for patients somewhere in a GDR system. [[Abg. Kirchgatter: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Kirchgatter: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Kirchgatter: I don't know!]] We reject that, and we do not want to! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want an ideology-free health care, and we want patients to be free to choose which doctor they are going to. And if you look at where the SPÖ ideology or also the greens who like to be there in the health field leads, then there is a practical example, that is the example of Vienna, the Federal Minister. In the next few months, you will still have a lot to do with this SPÖ health policy, because where we came from in Vienna, we see: Gangbeds for everyone, so every patient's gangbed. Let me give you an example, too. In a Vienna hospital, an oncologist said to an oncological patient: I'm sorry, I'd rather you wouldn't do your chemotherapy in the hospital, I can only offer you a gangbed. We're full, but not with oncological patients. As soon as we have a free bed, we get patients from all stations. These are abuses, which cannot simply be accepted in this way, and this should be done, and it is ultimately also the responsibility of the Federal Minister as the Supreme Supervisory Authority to explain to the comrades in Vienna that this health policy is at least a mistake. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Schenk.]] The fact is that at least one quarter of all patients are at home in Vienna. That is, a quarter of all patients have poor health care. As ambulances are blocked, special ambulances are closed on Nmeler's side, there are overcrowded beds, overcrowded corridors, waiting times up to six hours, and finally the carpentry of the cashier also comes. There are, I don't know, you haven't mentioned it either, countless districts in Austria, where, for example, there isn't a pediatrician with a cashier's contract, where there is no ophthalmologist, no ENT doctor with a cashier's contract, where patients are forced to go to an election doctor or not. We are in the middle of this development, because you cannot come here and say: We don't want that, we have to stop it! – Patients are already required to pay. This development is under way. You can only reverse them, but you will not reverse them by putting the screw on even further and even more strongly trying to install PHC centers, but you will only be able to reverse them if you finally come into contact with the main association once there are negotiations taking place so that the cash doctors will be paid accordingly and adequately. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] In the middle of the 10th century, it's terrible to have to look at it. Wiener Gemeindezirk – and this is one of the areas you wrote about, that life expectancy there is not particularly high that there are not the particularly rich people living there – a dentist does not find a successor for his cash contract. There all the alarm bells have to cry, please, if you don't even find a dentist in such an area! This is crazy, and these are the problems we have in the health system – because what will happen there? What is to be done by this social layer, which no electoral doctor can afford? – These people will simply go much less to the doctor, i.e. the follow-up costs will be much higher. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Federal Minister has said, we must finally act there. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] We have at least one three-class medicine: those who can't afford anything, those who sometimes also save the electorate, and those who go to the doctor privately. We need to see that, especially for the middle class and the cashier patients, we bring our health system back a little on the front and take back these misdevelopments. It has already been said – I believe by Mr Vice-Chancellor – today: We have a problem with the emigration of virgins. – Yes, that is true, and that we have too little education, I am not going to blame you now, because there will have to be a dialogue between the health and the science sector, on why the quota of medical students is actually so low; but that is the one question. The next question is, and this again falls within the competence of the health sector: Why do young, trained doctors wander away? – That’s all the same – we’re breaking ourselves – that training in Germany and also in Switzerland is shorter, is better, is more efficient, and they also deserve more there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – Oh, my God, I beg you! The Germans come to study with us, but the training they make at home. You should also consider whether you really know each other, otherwise you can hold back better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – It's all right, yes, it's all right! [[Abg. Arbitrators: We are not in the arena! I may ask you...!]] Dreams Continue in your world, take care of You are concerned about women's policy and let the others discuss health policy here! [[Ongoing calls by MEPs Schieder and Gisela Wurm]] It would have failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a problem. And if we don't manage to train our gymnastics quickly and well and not to degradate them to system holders who don't see any patients for days because they've only been paved with writing, then we won't be able to keep more young physicians in the country either. That is very simple and quite clear. There's really a need for action. The Medical Working Time Act has worked very well in eight federal states. There, too, socialist health policy in Vienna has of course failed again, because in Vienna we have the problems with the Medical Working Time Act, in which there has been a ping pong game between the former Social Minister and the former Health Councillor. We now have the problem that there are too few doctors that they are charged over a fee, so that they have gone to strike. A word also on the CT and MR disaster: Mrs. Minister, that's not something that's completely new. It has already been stated in Plan A that there will be a solution by March. But what happens if this solution doesn't come? There's exactly the problem you should fight at the root. It's the social security bonuses that mean they have to say in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] We just don't pay for any more investigations. - That's the problem. There you have to put on social security, and I already know that you are particularly burdened in the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then your predecessor and your inventor, Minister Stöger, give a free study – by the way, by the way, €630 million, without a call for tender, we will have to discuss this in this house, but elsewhere, still – to the house and court experts of the London School of Economics, so that we can say: [[Abg. Keck:... numbers!]] Yeah, it's all right anyway, the social insurances should stay the way they are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] No, they must not stay as they are! It takes a combination, it needs an efficient management in social security so that we can also afford the health system again, so that really all patients in the cash register can also get access. One final sentence: In your first interviews, Mrs. Federal Minister, you said you wanted to stick to the ban on smoking. This is good and right from the point of view of a Minister of Health. But I'm telling you: With the old hat you will not draw anyone out behind the curtain, because it is not just health policy, it is also economic policy. You should never forget that in all your actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5073	Now Mr. Klubobmann has Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5096	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Especially love new Minister for Health and Women Pamela Rendi-Wagner: Welcome! It is a great pleasure to welcome you to the National Council. It is a good and right decision that has been made, and I can tell you that you have the full support of the Socialist parliamentary group in the work projects you have formulated here today. But I'm also sure: If you argue in this factual way of argumenting, in which your speech of entry was also today, then it will be possible to close here in the House wide-ranging political coalitions within the meaning of the health system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ms Rendi-Wagner is a well-known expert on this subject. This has the great advantage that it can quickly enter the work of the Ministry of Health, not least because it has played a significant role in this work in recent years as a section head. The second, which, I believe, is also important, in addition to the experience and rapid ability to use in the field of health, is of course the personal qualification and suitability – both in the field of health education and in its own biography – as far as a modern, self-confident, but also professional and career-oriented picture is concerned. This is a very important point for women's policy issues in particular. Ms. Dr. Rendi-Wagner has announced that she has already been very close to the work of Sabine Oberhauser and her health policy projects – the cooperation as a section chef with Sabine Oberhauser – and with motivation, force of enforcement and joy in the office this will certainly work well. Today's debate offers itself to recall what Sabine Oberhauser, who has been here in the High House for many years in his group, has implemented in her time as a Minister of Health. The focus has always been on the welfare of Austrian society, a health system that takes with it all those affected, the patients, those people who hopefully do not become patients, i.e. the area of health care, as well as the nursing staff, the doctors and also the social insurance system, which is an essential player. Sabine Oberhauser was the preparer for the ban on smoking in the gastronomy in 2015, and I think it was right that she did not say as a health minister: I see there any economic interests of the foreign tobacco lobby! – which, by the way, fills us with lobbying writings every day – but that it has focused on the interests of the health site and health, especially the non-smokers who are forced to smoke. It was in July 2015, when the free gear for children under 18 years of age came into implementation, as one of the highlights in the work of the Minister of Health Sabine Oberhauser. From her work as Minister of Women, I only call the improvement in the protection of victims and the improvement in the fight against domestic violence, the loophole in maintenance law, which has been successful, the child care money account from 1. March 2017, the increase in women's budget and also the rate of women's participation in collegiate bodies, such as universities, which were increased from 40 to 50 percent. Even more decisive, I believe that Sabine Oberhauser's role in her fight against cancer was also one of the mutators and the potential and the model. That's what it's worth. Rendi-Wagner's health policy means: a solid health system, no different waiting times for private patients – that is, no shorter ones – and that everyone, according to his health condition, will be involved even if he needs the tests for his diagnosis. The best medical care, regardless of income, is not only a keyword, but also means to appreciate that in Austria we have a health system, a publicly funded health care system, with maximum medical benefits that are not available to anyone in many other countries, not even to the millionaires, but to us through legal social security, but to each patient and every patient. That this is not just pure propaganda and, of course, we see when we look at what the political friends of the FPÖ are doing: in America Mr Trump through the abolition of Obamacare – there are the sick at the same time also the homeless and the impoverished, because there is no disease and therefore no one can afford health that does not have the thick wallet – or the Brexit supporters who have promised that the NHS, the National Health System in Great Britain, will not be affected. Now, general health care for all British people is the first one under pressure. Against this background, the development of our health system, the further development of the publicly funded, efficient, fair and fair maximum health system, is the most important prerequisite for health policy, and this includes the prevention of a healthy lifestyle. This is what the Minister for Health has rightly mentioned here. Women's policy is to close the unacceptable wage shear – that's the most important project. About the women's day, Statistics Austria has again presented the figures, these embarrassing figures: 21.7% earn women on average for the same hourly performance less than men. [[Abg. Brosz:... is the share of women in the government!]] This is a huge gap that can be closed in the private sector, but also in the public sector. And because here always the women's representation in the government is addressed: I am proud that three women are part of the Social Democratic government team with eight members. That is our understanding of how we live women's policies: that a sufficient number of women, of course well-qualified women, are a matter of course for us in political functions. In the same way, we want to do so in the Supervisory Boards, and the quota in Supervisory Boards is a legislative project that will come in the near future and implement in this area. In this sense, Pamela Rendi-Wagner, I wish you all the best, and not only you, but also the fair, social and just Austrian health system. That's a very important thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5142	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5163	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As a Green Group, Mrs Federal Minister, we would like to welcome you here in the House, and welcome you with your work and your zeal. They are considered a competent professional expert, and I think we can work very well on matters. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] We too miss Sabine Oberhauser painfully. We are infinity sad that she left us all so early. In fact, it also leaves a human gap in the Federal Government because it has always been very solution-oriented and has always tried to put the common place before the dividing end. However, we have a large structural gap, which is still open, and that is women's policy. They take on a very great responsibility. Tens of years of failure in this area to catch up now will be a very large piece of work. For us green women and men, it is a matter of course to work politically to ensure that women in Austria can lead a self-determined, free life. They do great things in this country. They often work in jobs that are paid far too low. They work very often in social professions, in education, in kindergartens, in care. They also work in the economy, where they do great things and create them at career levels ever higher up. However, they are not equal in economic and social terms after us. They can still not live and work in existence. This is one of the biggest injustices in Austria, whether it is aged, whether it is in retirement, in an emergency situation where they depend on minimum or social assistance, or if they need the state as a single enterprise. It is a general concern to strengthen and support women in all areas. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] It is not only about career women or women who have crossed the glass ceiling, as you have said, but above all about many women in rural areas, who are faced with even more restrictive roles, who may work in the municipal council and are confronted with disrespect, who may work as entrepreneurs in a tourism company and are not recognized as entrepreneurs, where many framework conditions also play a role, not only in childcare, but also in mobility. These are all questions that actually concern the entire Federal Government, and so it is so sad and sad that the representation of women in this body still does not come up with what is necessary. This is a matter of course for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Half-half!]] I think it is not such a problem to be careful that diversity, whether in a party, in a club or in the Federal Government, is simply given. I never argue that women can do anything better or are better politicians, but it is about the essential element of diversity, of different viewpoints. This is how a policy looks when not women are in positions of power, and that is the result of 20, 25 years of structural gap in women's policy. That's a fact – unfortunately. We want to close this gap. Mr Schieder von der SPÖ is proud that three ministers are put by the SPÖ or one State Secretary and two ministers. - Yeah, that's good. I would like to remind you that the SPÖ – that was your predecessor Gusenbauer, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern – has made a bet with Van der Bellen that in 2006, when the National Council meets, the 40 percent quota will be reached at the SPÖ. He used to bet for a box of schnapps back then, I think. The 40 percent quota has not yet been reached, more than ten years later! And the box Schnaps didn't get Van der Bellen, by the way, but only on the edge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I want your concerns – Van der Bellen's schnapps!]] – No, it is about the representation of women in positions of power, Mr. Arbitrator. It is a poverty testif you look at the situation in the economy: Not even 4 percent of the CEOs are women, there are not even 4 percent women in economic leadership positions. It's remarkable: Now, intensive discussions are being held on the minimum wage and on the impact of the minimum wage on women. The fact is, however, that for decades trade union representations have also looked away when it came to these women's industries. This is also a failure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is important!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have, as it were, negotiated a new government agreement. In fact, government reform is also an opportunity to discuss the state of government work. I still start with women's policy: In fact, women's policy does not appear in this Government Convention. The legal minimum wage was pushed aside, it was again delegated to a working group, so to speak, postponed to the summer. You speak of 1,500 €. On the other hand, there is already resistance – parentheses on: I understand that some industries have difficulties in doing so. But then we will also discuss a general relief of the factor work, including for these companies! That's important, let's not forget that! Nevertheless: 1 500 €, and you discuss transitional periods up to 2025. – It is a social-political balding to discuss this! I can't. We need this minimum wage now and immediately. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as the Deputies Schieder and Gisela Wurm.]] This is about over 400 000 people, especially women. The general situation of the Federal Government: On and on, I would have expected – that was always so common in the past – that there would be a certain balance on the occasion of government reform. It's been very short now. A certain disillusionment has already occurred with us, you have to say. This re-start in government has become a cold start, especially as regards the social issue. There are a few topics that cause us great concern. On the one hand, this is your new European orientation. It's remarkable: We are watching a course of de-olidarization. This is not only what we see – this Austria first – is also critically commented on in the public. Of course, we are all interested that the people who live in this country are better. That's not a question at all. I think, however, that we have all recognised that only a common Europe can really solve the big issues. I believe that micro-statery is simply not suitable for solving the major problems. Now, if you want to continue this path and gradually also to shake at the foundations of the European Union, such as freedom of movement for persons, this is really a problem. We de facto disputed the pillars of the European Union at the time of accession, and we have undertaken to solve the major issues in the EU as well. Now, in connection with the labour market and social union, social security, Sebastian Kurz, as Minister of Europe, is being proclaimed that he wants a new European Union, the stop of the social union, then there is a real alert. What do the people of the European Union feel? – They feel above all these personal freedoms that they can study elsewhere, that they can work elsewhere, that they can marry people from other countries and then have no problems in everyday life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - I know what you want to say. It is clear that the Freedom Party has joined forces with those who want to destroy Europe in this form. However, I would like to address those who have recognized the need to solve the major problems in this context. I ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor: What course do you really want to take? What's next? – One can discuss the employment bonus, but there would have been no “discrimination” – under quotations. The reduction in family allowances for people from other European countries is really questionable, even if you look at the impact of this measure. Next come different health insurance, social security? – This is certainly the wrong way. I see your approach, especially in the area of the labour market, and you want to put something into motion. From our point of view, however, this must not lead to us starting a de-olidarisation discussion. If all the states operate national singles, national states, then this European project is really at risk. And this is harmful to Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked to discuss with you something else that would have been possible under black and blue in this agreement of work, which, in terms of content, I say in advance, would have been possible. We are talking about strengthening human rights, human rights and asylum, in foreign law. That's the 34. Intensification, in part there are also taboos that are not comprehensible. The fact that one actually produces programmed homelessness is really questionable from the point of view of society. With all the problems in these areas we want as a society, I think, no stigmatization of people, no matter what happened to them before. These people then have to de facto look for something merciless in the dungy; that is a stigmatization. With your bill you really produce programmed homelessness, and that was always a taboo break. There is, of course, massive resistance against it, and I hope that this draft law will still be outraged. These are ways that are actually amazing. In recent years, the right of foreigners has been strengthened 34 times, and the human rights situation has worsened. By the way, the SPÖ has always voted in favour, also in the opposition. I also wonder in this connection in which direction you want to go further. This government agreement bears the signature of the EIA in the economic and social sphere, and in the field of human rights there are some demands from the FPÖ. In our opinion, this is the wrong path for Austria. I would like to share something with you: The Government Convention should be stepped up and improved in the area of social security. I'll make you an offer, too. We have been trying for weeks to engage in discussions on renting, the social issue of renting, the right to rent – but not just. I think that is one of the most burning social issues, but in the government agreement, there is essentially no single emphasis on this. This social issue in the next one and a half years is simply not possible. Please, let's get better! You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are all right again! Good cooperation! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5282	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5306	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner! High house! At the beginning, let me say one more word to the late Federal Minister Dr. Sabine Oberhauser: Dr. Sabine Oberhauser was an outstanding human personality, which was also expressed by my predecessor Clubobfrau Glawischnig. We'll miss them very much here. Within the Federal Government there are sometimes difficult questions to solve. She was one who always managed to build bridges. That is why I say on our behalf and on behalf of my group: We are very grateful to her for everything she has done that has gone far beyond health and women's policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I should like to welcome you here and stress that our group will support the work of the Federal Government and also your work in terms of women's policy, but also in terms of our health system. If we look at demographic development in Austria, we must say that health policy is really a central issue. We have to look forward to this demographic development in good time, because the most powerful births in Austria come only to the age in which we depend heavily on appropriate health care. Austria has an excellent, excellent health system. But we also need to do everything we can to keep it financially and manageable. You will certainly bring the necessary expertise, which you have shown as Section Chef in the Minister of Health, as Director-General for Public Health. The second important area you will be concerned with is women's policy: Yes, in the case of women's policy in Austria, there have already been other situations – colleague Glavischnig, you have just mentioned this –: When the German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel called, there were 50 percent ministers in the government. You shouldn't forget that. The ÖVP always tries to do something here. In the last year, we have also made massive efforts to ensure that, for the first time in Austria, a woman is at the head of the Court of Auditors. We were able to put it through. In Lower Austria, a woman now assumes first responsibility as head of state. That is not to be underestimated, ladies and gentlemen. - Because a steirer speaks up: [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schieder and Spindelberger.]] The first head of state in Austria, colleague Spindelberger, was Waltraud Klasnic, we must not forget that. The first woman to sit in the National Council Bureau was Dr. Marga Hubinek. I could continue this list for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – Yes, you are right, we are required not only to look back, but to do everything in the future to ensure that women in all areas have the right opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gisela Worm:... statutory quota!]] We've got ourselves in our club on 3rd. In March, as part of the survey “What Women Want” intensively deals with this issue. [[Abg. Schimanek: And what do they want?]] We say: We should do everything we can to ensure that women get all the opportunities, but they should decide for themselves what they think is right. This freedom of choice is very important to us. We do not want to give women a model which is sometimes seen differently in other political groups. There are injustices, and the greatest injustice has been addressed, that is the reward, the income. Yes, the Federal Government has now told the social partners: If you do not succeed, we see ourselves as a federal government demanding to do something. It is also in the health field. They have addressed the long waiting times for CT and MRT investigations. It is also the right way to say first to the social partners: Try to find a solution, the deadline expires at the end of March! – If they do not, then you are required, but also we as legislators, to find appropriate solutions. We agree on this. I would also like to address one point: I am from the countryside, from the East Styria, and I was only at a relatively large congregation meeting last Sunday. I am hearing the mayor's concern about home-care, as far as medical care in rural areas is concerned. It has taken a long time to ensure appropriate medical care, and now the positive development is threatening to go in another direction. We have to think again about the older people of our society! Trust in the family doctor is very important. In rural areas, we do not have such public transport links as are natural in the urban area. Therefore, the medical proximity is very important. It is important not to focus on medical centres in the urban area, even if it is a small-town area. What I want to say with this is: I agree with all our support when it comes to this primary medical care when it comes to coming to bourgeois models through Primary Health Care Center together with the Medical Chamber. That's why I'm trying to get you in this area together with the doctor's chamber. A second area where you can't start early enough: Recently, former university professors such as the Dean of the University of Vienna have also made a statement and are very dramatically forecasting a medical shortage. I hope that this will never happen in Austria and that we will also act together in good time. Vice chancellor and Minister of Science Reinhold Mitterlehner has already mentioned this. In addition to health and women, Mrs Glawischnig, you have also mentioned in general the work of the Federal Government: Yes, we are in many areas in the middle of the road. Of course, we want a strong European Union, but I say to you: The Federal Government is 100 percent right with the points it now wants to take up, namely: The Austrian population should never feel that it is the burden of this European Union that it has to provide services that are not provided in other countries. They have addressed the support for children. You know that in Austria, the money provided for children should be a compensation for the cost of living. The cost of living in Romania, in which Slovakia is much lower than in Austria, is therefore justified not only, but also appropriate, so that acceptance of the population remains. If we have many unemployed people in Austria, it is right to take measures to get our people back into employment. This will also have to be accepted by the European Union. Finally, the Commission was already there when it hoped that Britain would remain in the European Union. It is sad enough – yesterday, the decision was made that Brexit is a fact – that we are losing such an important payer, such an important bridge builder, with Britain, when I think of the transatlantic bridge. The Commission, the European Union, has everything to do to ensure that we do not lose any more Member States and that the pro-European forces remain strong. If we look too long, those who do not want a strong European Union will be strengthened, my colleague, Glavischnig. That is what motivates us and what we see the challenge, I would like to have said quite clearly here. Turkey is also busy with us now: Mr Bundeskanzler, I very much hope that, together with the Minister of the Interior, we will quickly come to those intensifications that we need in order to prevent such conflicts as they unfortunately took place in Holland a few days ago. There is an extensive programme of work that is being done by the Federal Government, which is going to employ us here in the house, on education, security, employment issues. We're in the middle of work. Health and women's policies are not marginal issues, but central challenges. Mrs Bundesminister, I am looking forward to a good cooperation. In our group – you have referred to allies – you have a political group that is allied with you in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5384	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5406	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! After Klubobmann Lopatka's speech on the Brexit issue and on other European topics, I'm trying to get the bow back to the new Federal Minister for Health and Women, because she should actually do it. With Sabine Oberhauser, many here in this house have had a very good relationship. I claim that her greatest quality was that she could always separate an objective discussion from the personal level, and so one could discuss well and hard with her, and it was never intertwined, it was never common or personal. I really appreciated her. I wish we could have this kind of cooperation with you, Mrs Federal Minister. I am pleased that you are again at the forefront of a person who brings a lot of expertise, as much as you still have to wish for other ministries at the moment. On the matter itself: In your first interviews in the “ZIB 2” and on Ö1, you have referred to multi-class medicine. You have also referred to the waiting times for MRT and CT investigations again today and have announced that you will submit a law if the contractual partners do not get it right. There are, however, quite obvious areas where one could approach the question of multiclass medicine with a law. I am thinking of the 15 hospitals in the countries and communities. These could remove you with a dash from the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act and bring the insured under the roof of the main association. Small privileged groups of local and local government officials make up their own special insurance companies. If you are insured with the KFA of the officials of the city of Vienna, then you do not have a waiting time for an MRI appointment, then you will immediately come in. In this area, you can instantly eliminate privileges and combat multi-class medicine. There is no reason to wait, because there will not be a doctor's chamber, there will be no pharmacy chamber on the plan, no pharmaceutical industry will write you a letter. Their partners in the main association will even be happy to get the 160,000 insured from the KFA under the roof of the main association. But with your new party, Mrs. Minister, you will have difficulties, because the mayors of Vienna, Linz, Salzburg, Steyr and Villach, your red mayor, will not be happy if you have the town hall staff Take away the beloved privileges. Do you trust that? – I demand It's on: Trust That's what you're doing! There is also a lot to be done in the realm of the main association to lead to multi-class medicine. The different health insurance companies do different things for the insured, because they have a different insurance structure. The local health telephones must carry out unemployed and minimum insurance workers, and the officials, the self-employed and the railways have a noble effect on this responsibility. However, the compensation fund of the funds covers only the local health telephone. Create You have a structural balance between all the funds by taking in the officials and the railways too! They are also intended to contribute in solidarity to the unemployed and to the minimum pensioners. Do you trust that? – I ask you again: Trust this! A third point you can solve about laws, if you already like to settle things with laws: Through a complicated system of different lifting rates, money from pension insurance is pumped into health insurance companies, €1.6 billion a year. In particular, the old-age farmer's insurance and the old-age railway insurance benefit. These two insurance companies can provide higher benefits for their insured persons and pay more than the local health telephone because of this complicated logic. You could get to that and put off this complicated lifting system so that all can get to the same starting position. This is an abuse that you can face with a very simple law. Here too I ask you: Do you trust yourself? – I ask you to: Please, trust yourself! There is much to do in health policy, and typically each player always refers to the others in which a reform would be carried out in accordance with the Floriani principle. I'll invite you to: Be an example and start where your ministry can do something! Please, trust yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5467	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5488	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Welcome to the High House, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner! Minister for Women and Health for a week – I wish you a lot of success in your project! Her predecessor once said that women's policy is the hardest – but if we do it together, if we do it together, if we work together in Austria to achieve our goals for a fairer world, then we do easier. In this sense: The cooperation is not only offered to you, but it is given from the beginning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You said last week – last Wednesday in Austria and everywhere in the world of the International Women's Day – that one of your biggest and most important projects was the question of gender justice in income. 1 500 € Minimum wage – this has already been addressed here by the Federal Chancellor and in several debates – is a very, very important demand, a question of justice that we in Austria – in addition to many other advantages – should implement in favour of women. A minimum wage of €1500 should come by June, and if the social partners do not make it, we will bring in a law. That's what it said in the new government statement, and that's good. We from the Women's Committee, the Equal Treatment Committee, started by inviting the social partners and asking them: What is going on here that there are so many differences, so many injustices in the various industries? There is now new momentum, and it has also been a very great concern for the women's minister Sabine Oberhauser, who, unfortunately, died much too early, to continue working in this area. It may not be better and more honorable to think of them than to continue their projects to further their projects. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another important point when we demand gender equality is the question of income transparency. It is important to know what the colleague deserves next door, the colleague deserves next door, and it is important to continue to ensure that the salary information in the newspapers is read: How much can woman earn, how much is the job worth? This is also an important measure that should be further pursued, further completed and improved. The next step is an important step, because many women have already taken a foothold if they wanted to push through the glass ceiling. Johanna Dohnal, the great women's politician here in Austria, has once published a brochure, according to the motto: Johanna Bond 007 looking for – where are they, these hidden obstacles, so that women do not get there, despite the good education, despite the catch-up process that has occurred in recent years? It is nevertheless true – and this has already been mentioned – that we need quotas in the Supervisory Boards and in the final effect also in the Boards so that women can finally find the place they belong to at all levels, including in Parliament, as Mr Lopatka has said. I hope that we will come to a solution when we talk about the legal quotas in Parliament too. I am good things, the hope, Mr Klubobmann, dies at the last. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame, but we still need quotas in supervisory councils in Austria. We may then be glad that all this potential of women, which is still being broken, can then be used accordingly in our country. Once again, to pay-righteousness: If there are wages that women can live on, then we can also speak of actual freedom of choice, because freedom of choice is given if one can live a self-determined, independent life. The issue is that there are appropriate childcare facilities, educational facilities for children, from childcare to public school to gymnasium. This is necessary if you are talking about compatibility between family and profession, otherwise, as has been said more often, freedom of choice in the final effect only exists on paper. To change this will be your task, it will be our task to bring you a lot on the way. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, Minister for Women and Health! An action plan for women's health has also been prepared in your ministry. – That’s a good thing, you were safely involved in it as Section Chef. This too can and should be a synergy effect so that women live even longer, and that is also good. In this sense: all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5544	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5565	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In Austria, exactly three times as many people die from so-called hospital germs every year as in road traffic. In Austria, 1,500 people die of hospital germs, which are also caused by the lack of hygiene in the hospital. Only 300 people die – that must be done on the tongue! – because the medical staff doesn't take it so well with the manual hygiene. If you claim here today that we have a perfect health system and that it is even worse in other countries, then it does not help those who are actually affected because someone simply had no desire to wash his hands properly before going to the next patient. These 300 deaths could easily prevent you if you finally did what we have been demanding for years: introduce quality management in the hospital, and not a voluntary one, because it is not about encouraging those responsible to do something voluntarily. It is about the state that, as a minister, you have the obligation not to endanger people who come to the hospital in good faith, trusting in our system. These 300 dead could be saved from us – and of the 1,500 who die of hospital germs, at least half. If you've been to the hospital before and you've looked at house technology carefully, you know what's in there. It always means that this is a cost factor. – But that would be a good investment! Mrs. Minister, you haven't said much concrete today, but I would have expected it because you're an expert, you're exactly from there, and you could be expected to know what it's all about. If you were a cross-country beginner who – no idea – was previously a car mechanic and now comes into the health system, then you might think you need to work in; but you need to know where there are problems. That's why: Tell us exactly what you want to do about hospital germs or hand hygiene! Tell us exactly what you want to do in view of the fact that 40 percent of the diagnostics, on the basis of which treatments then take place, are wrong! We know it is, but nothing is done. You have to imagine this: 40 percent of the diagnostics are wrong, and then expensive treatments are carried out on the basis of false diagnosis – and instead of putting the money into the diagnosis, you put the money in the treatment. If you know that a doctor gets €10 or even less than €10 per patient, then you have to say it's no wonder the diagnosis suffers. What do you want? You find out in two, three minutes with a patient? – Then we have the problem: Doctor Rein-Raus; that is, you go in and three minutes later you stand outside again because it is not different at all. For less than €10, you can't go into the patient for an hour – as is the case in the private sector, in which you pay 100, 150 € for it. That means there would be money to invest so that there is a proper diagnosis. You didn't say anything about prevention. What about prevention? There, the money would be well removed as regards advice, because many things happen because of lack of advice from the doctor – and then, if advice is necessary, the doctor often does not know himself. As far as nutrition is concerned, there is so much ignorance among the doctors; but that is no wonder, because it is taught much too little at the universities as far as the right diet is concerned. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Here too, you can improve a lot. One point to the end – unfortunately I don't have more time to speak –: We know that a quarter of the total cost in the health system will be invested in the last months of life. It would make sense to consider whether one does not prefer that. Why spend so much money for the last months of life and cannot this money be used where it actually makes sense, namely in the prevention, in the diagnosis and in preventing all these sufferings that cost and would be avoidable? I'd like to hear from you about all these things, but I haven't heard anything today. Nevertheless: They stand in front of a big mountain, there are huge challenges. Our health system could be much, much better than it is. There's a lot to do, and we'll be at your side when you're ready to actually move in this country, because the tasks are big. I hope since I myself will need a health system that works that will make you successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5623	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5644	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! First, I would like to welcome you, Mrs Minister, as a health speaker and your counterpart. We have always worked very well with the SPÖ ministers; I like it very much with you, because you are a lecturer, and the circle closes: I also come from the AKH, which is what the least know, but it did not beat me into science, but into domestic medicine. But I took one from the AKH: We've always been very upset. The teachers have always explained everything to me, so they are called teachers and not domestic doctors, and they have always been completely disappointed if I have not expressed any contradiction. A little contradiction is going to befall us in the health care sector; it always bothers me when it says that someone is evil or talk something bad if he has a different opinion. I have an opinion on various topics. What moved me personally was the funeral of Sabine Oberhauser, with whom I also worked very well, which went far too early. Two things went through my head at the funeral. The first was actually a no-na knowledge: Medicine can do a lot, but unfortunately not everything. And the second point is: We must do everything we can to help as many people as possible. I am proud that I was allowed to participate, together with the SPÖ, which has a very great tradition that we carry the Mantra before us: Health for all, regardless of age and income! This is where Minister Stöger, with whom I worked very well, even went home with me and then saw the value of basic medicine, the primary provider. But we are currently experiencing a situation in which a lot of things are spoken badly, but if you look closely, it does not stand. Today in the early days, there was the news that – at best – 14 million Americans lose their health insurance by leaving Obamacare again. We don't talk about 14 million on or off, because even with Obamacare, there were still 30 million uninsured people, and in Florida, despite Medicaids, the elderly have to enter the supermarket shelf so they can afford their medications. That's another world we're talking about. Now it is always said that the centers in England are so great and so on. – I have nothing against centers, my neighbor is the largest center of Vienna, the Ambulatory South, but the “Daily Mail” has already written about the snake that is ashamed of the UK. [[keeping an up-to-date edition of the “Daily Mail”]] It's about not coming to the house doctor in England, you have to wait four weeks. [[Abg. New builder: In Austria too! Six weeks for the ophthalmologist!]] I have to wait exactly half an hour or an hour, but certainly not four weeks. If you don't believe me, The Guardian says that 58 million English patients wait more than a week and it is a national shame. - That's where you have to look. People explain to me that in Holland the centres – 216 centers – are so great. – I have nothing against centers, they are an additional offer. But if Austrian domestic medicine is mistreated by some – I say: by some – and it means that we need centres and these can always belong to the company Porr or anyone else, then I would like to say: So I don't want to belong to anyone, I want to be a member of a free profession, I want to be there for my patients. You also have to say: 216 centres in Austria with 2 300 municipalities, which means that 2 000 communities are taken away by the family doctor. – So I do not want to hold this discussion, but we will be kind and find a good solution, I believe. Now I come to the topic of prevention: Prevention is important. I say to all my patients – and there are also some patients – that 80 percent of heart attacks would be avoidable if you were to smoke less, stop blood pressure, adjust cholesterol precisely, feed healthy – Mediterranean food – and above all move. I've already made my move today, I've been driving the bike here, and I'm always passing the monument that Victor Adler and Ferdinand Hanusch are looking down: This is a high responsibility, and in 40 years there may be a monument for Mr Stöger or Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner. [[Cheerfulness on the government bank and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: A bigger one!]] We are planning for the morning and the day after tomorrow, and we should address the issues properly. For example, it is not about the question, centers yes or no. We have 4,000 domestic doctors, and it's getting less and less. Why? – You get 40 percent less paid, in the hospital you are in the way, the teaching practice is not taking place. – We must not allow ourselves to have a debate on centres that are about as important as the rearview mirror of my car, while the doctors are running away from us abroad. I think we have to look very closely. I come to the conclusion: The waiting times are a topic, but I think MRI waiting times are not so much the problem. My patients wait four months for an appointment for a thyroid examination, an appointment with a psychiatrist is not possible. In other words, we need to see if the care is given at all, and we also need to see if the doctor can do it at all, because in my opinion, the quality is quite crucial, the four-eye principle. It's not about whether you're working in a center or in a hospital, it's always about the four-eye principle. A patient has never told me he wants to go to the hospital or he wants to go to a center, but it's asked: Where's the best, and has time for me? These were always the crucial two questions, and we must ask them as health policyists, because: What is the claim that we have the best heart attack supply if there is no psychiatric supply? - That's where we have to look! And now I'm saying something: Austrian social security service is doing a damn good job, and the doctors are doing a damn good job! I have to say again and again, in international comparison we really have a very, very good system. We are 10th in terms of health costs – 10th place! We spend less than Germany and Switzerland; those countries we like to compare with. We're very good at that. Schopenhauer once said: “Health is certainly not all, but without health everything is nothing.” I am not a philosopher, but I also want to be as healthy as the Nobel Prize winner Candel, who said to me at the age of 86: Erwin, never give up! In this sense: We will never give up in health policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5721	Next speaker: Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5743	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Rendi-Wagner! High house! I too would like to stress the good cooperation with our much too early female minister Sabine Oberhauser. There was always a very good working environment with Sabine Oberhauser. I think it is, of course, a very difficult inheritance for you, Mrs Minister, which you are now taking, since you have also worked very closely in your professional relationship with Mrs Oberhauser, but I am also very pleased that we can continue to discuss this consensus, which we have found with our former Minister of Women, namely, at a very objective level. The time for your appointment was very well chosen. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern says that 95 percent of the new SPÖ policy is staging, so: Introducing the World Women's Day, that was a good staging! I still hope that we have very results-oriented access to women's policy. As you mentioned today, your main focus is on equal pay for equal work. Many women's ministers – there was a man in this function – have already bitten out their teeth on this topic. Mr Gisela Wurm has already mentioned that we have already tried to invite the presidents of the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of the Social Ministry to a large round in the Equal Treatment Committee at the women's level, and at that time I was aware that the presidents did not come themselves but sent their vices. That alone has been a sign to me and, as I believe, to some of my colleagues that the appreciation of women's policy at a certain level is not so much given. Of course, the differentiated wage system with salary classifications, pre-service periods, interruption periods we have in Austria is difficult. It will be exciting: At the beginning of April, the women's speakers went to Iceland with the President, because Iceland decided to introduce a new system to close the payroll. I'm excited what we're gonna hear there about how they want to do this. What I have heard so far was too little for me to be able to judge it, but perhaps it is an approach. If you haven't heard anything about it, Mrs Minister, you could also accompany us, perhaps it would be interesting for you. [[Abg. Gisela Wurm: We will then report, my colleague!]] - We're there, but maybe the woman's minister can ride along. I don't know if it's possible. As Mr Glawischnig mentioned today, of course, the minimum wage is an important contribution, because women in particular work in those areas where low wages are paid. Nor does it help to speak of a quota if the quota concerns only a small proportion of the women concerned. We need a women's policy for all the women in Austria and not just the quota! Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have also addressed violence today – this is very important to me too! Last week, the Minister of the Interior presented the latest crime statistics: The number of cases of sexual violence or sexual assaults against women in the public sector has increased dramatically. Domestic violence – you have addressed it – is also an important issue. In this context, you have also mentioned something that has long been important to me, i.e. women's houses or women who do excellent work for the women concerned in Austria should not constantly come as a biter. This something very strange... – Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, as you know, I have already submitted applications during your term of office, because it is very important to me that the women's houses are financially assured that they do not have to take on such a bit of bitter function every year and that they do not know every year whether they will come out with their financial resources. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is country matter, but you know that!]] That would really be an important approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I beg you, Mrs. Minister, to keep this a little in mind! I think you're not a quota woman, Mrs. Minister! They have managed to bring family and profession into a hat. You said you'd run through the glass ceiling – but not through quota! I think every woman in Austria would be very proud to say: I'm not a quota woman, I've worked it out myself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5804	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5826	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My dear Pamela! I would like to express my personal pleasure that last week you were entrusted with this responsible task of a Federal Minister for Health and Women; this is also because I have personally come to know and appreciate you as a very competent woman in recent years. As health spokesperson of the SPÖ, I am already a little proud to be able to walk with you a few steps of the way. That this path will not be easier, you explained yourself in your opening speech when you spoke about the enormous challenges we face in the health field. I am thinking, for example, of the current negotiations, which are going to be followed by the refund code for drugs, which regulates how much the health insurance companies pay to the pharmaceutical industry. It has been Usus for some time now that some pharmaceuticals, which gain billions of profits annually, in Austria massively oppose that they apply for inclusion in this refund code because they can thus achieve prices for their medicines beyond good and evil. If we now want to achieve a European average price – which is legitimate, we want countries in Europe to pay the same price for the same drugs – then we do not want to negotiate it seriously with us. I personally find the process of the pharmaceutical industry, which I must say, more than unscrupulously, that certain drugs are not delivered in 60 percent of the EU countries at all and that in those countries that are lucky, from Goodwill, I would like to say almost, that these drugs are coming to the market there, horren- de prices are demanded, which makes the health insurance companies quite financially sluggish. However, the Federal Government has made even more progress in its new government programme for the next 18 months. It is about what has already been mentioned today, on the one hand, to reduce these unsavory waiting times for CT and MRT investigations. There must be no such thing in Austria: that the award of treatment dates depends on whether you come to the ordination with an e-card or in the afternoon a private patient pushes over the trusts! Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I think you have a social security phobia. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No!]] You said we had to put all the waiting times at the root. Now I bring you an example from the practice: Some radiologists are now – now, at this time – shortening the opening hours of their ordinations and thus intensifying the pressure enormously and thus of course extending waiting times. [[Abg. New builder: Now! At 10.45!]] It can't be that such efforts are being made to advance the discrimination that is manifestly occurring between cash patients and private patients. [[Abg. New builder: Why do they do that? Why are they doing that? Say it!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You should tell the whole truth!]] As has already been said today, the next major piece of work that needs to be implemented is to strengthen outpatient care by moving as quickly as possible towards expanding primary supply. It should be a concern to all of us here inside the House to be able to guarantee medical care for the people of our country. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes!]] I have talked to many doctors who are not willing to sign a cash agreement on the current conditions, because they too want to agree better on the job and family. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We too!]] The doctors also want to cooperate not only with their colleagues but also with many other health professionals under one roof in order to make an even better care for patients. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which one?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Now who?]] I think this would be a win-win situation for all: for the doctors, for those who work in the health professions, but especially for the patients. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Because social security has the say, yes!]] Before you just pull everything into the negative, look at Mariazell's example, how super that works there! We can't see that only more electorate can settle down. The patients would then be forced to grab deep into the bag to pay for the benefits they now receive via e-card. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You want the patients...!]] I certainly don't want to. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Were you not the one who demanded that people not always...?]] I think we would be well advised to build up a medical care for patients who meet the needs of people in Austria and their needs. But what they don't need – I say quite consciously here today – are a few medical chamber officials who are currently trying to make politics on the back of the patients who would actually be referring to the help of the doctors. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who do you mean in particular?]] I really think it's bad if you try ads and posters to make moods against the health reform, mood against a modern supply structure, which is even desired by doctors, and then threatens to strike unhapped. It would be better for me to use the contributions paid by their members to make a more open medical education – there are still 2,000 open applications, nothing goes on at all – because if they invested there, this would be to the patient again on the detour. [[Abg. Neubauer: You are not responsible for the training of doctors!]] It would also be better if the doctors' chamber officials sat here with us at a table to work on how we put a modern health system on track. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And do everything social insurance wants!]] Everywhere Saying no doesn't bring us any further. Great challenges, Mrs. Federal Minister! I can assure you on behalf of the SPÖ Parliament Club: We'll go with you, we're ready to take this step.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6037	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6058	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Government! Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, also from me warm congratulations and good for the exercise of your new function! I hope that you will have an as good and open cooperation as with Sabine Oberhauser, who, unfortunately, died much too early. Sabine Oberhauser was really a woman of open words, working with her can be called very pleasant and very good. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, as far as cooperation with you is concerned, I am also waiting for another reason: With you, a woman has been appointed to this office, which does not bring the usual links with the social partners and with self-administration. I hope that this will make it possible to give some very, very important topics in health care a new direction in order to actually put the interests of the patients in focus again compared to those of social security. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] Solid and risk-based health system: Yeah, there's a lot to do, but we have huge construction sites. They have addressed topics on which our opinions are quite clear, namely, primary care, on the one hand, waiting time and also psychotherapy on the other. The Federal Government itself has recognized that psychotherapy and the care of mentally ill people are very important issues, and has included them as one of its priorities in the Government Convention. Now for primary supply: When people get sick, you need a quick, easy-to-use and close-to-place access to help. That should be guaranteed. This is partly the case now, but it should become even better due to the interaction of different health professions. We are very much in favour of this. I also support this because it improves the holistic view of people. But what we do not want is for social security to be able to choose between contractual and non-contractual providers in a contract-free area, with whom they conclude the primary supply contract under which conditions. In fact, there is a risk that health professionals are disadvantaged in the award of contracts because they are contractually binding and because they are unable to establish the founding capital and the infrastructure. Instead, corporations and opaque company structures can come to the train, take care of the supply and dominate it in the long term. And if that happens – I am very convinced of that – wage and quality dumping will occur. From my point of view, it is therefore very, very important that social security is bound by a single and clear contract, which applies to all providers. Equal conditions for all – there must be a uniform national primary supply contract, which applies to all providers in the same way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every involved professional group also needs a framework contract, which can then be re-embedded in this primary supply contract, and this framework contract must also describe what people need to supply, what offers are to be offered, what conditions are necessary for good treatment quality and how health professions are rewarded. These are the key elements we are calling for a new primary supply law, and I hope, Mrs Minister, that you will be interested and committed to it. Psychotherapy: Psychotherapy is a compulsory service of the health insurance scheme since 1991, but the social security in Austria has special rights: She doesn't have to comply with laws! I deliberately say that very cynical. Social security has opted for a system break, i.e. the quotaing and rationalization of the offer, and has thus managed to seriously disadvantage 900 000 mentally ill people for 25 years. Half of those who can afford psychotherapy at all and find access to it at all – and that is only 65,000 people – pay their treatment almost for themselves. After 20 hours of psychotherapy – and usually you go to a psychotherapy every week – you have to pay 1 200 € from your own pocket. This is a system that leads to massive inequality. So if you want to talk about a solidaric and just health system, you have to start here and make changes. There are huge problems in this area: Apart from personal sufferings that affect people who are mentally ill, more and more early retirements are taking place due to mental illness. After a mental rehabilitation, there is no further treatment, which is why it cannot lead to the corresponding success. The same applies to fit2work. There are long-term and more and more illnesses due to mental illness and far too many people in Austria taking psychopharmaca. A state-of-the-art treatment, as it is quite natural in Germany and Switzerland, namely that there is always only a combination of psychotherapy and psychopharmacological treatment, is not possible in Austria de facto. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The issue of waiting times is, I think, also a really big and important point. I would like to say that we have been talking about improvements in this area for two to three years now. I hope that solutions will really be found quickly so that the people in Austria will actually come back. trust that they will find an equal and solidary health system. I'm looking forward to good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6168	Next word: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6189	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister for Women and Health! As an ÖVP female speaker, I too can warmly welcome you here in the House and already promise you our support. Good luck! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister for Women, Ms Rendi-Wagner is responsible for more than half of the population. Currently 8.7 million people live in Austria, 4 462 071 of them women, which is 50.9%. 47 percent of the unemployed are women. 41 percent of the self-employed are women. You know that, of course, but why do I tell you that? – Because the facts show that the economy and thus the social fabric in our country are more than 50 percent of women and are being redesigned every day by them, apart from the tireless use of women in families, of unpaid work in families and also in clubs and in other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Minister for Women knows – and I am convinced – that women's policy is generally a policy that is inseparably linked to all policy areas. That is why, as Mrs Ex-Bundesminister Heinisch-Hosek said at the time, we need the National Action Plan so that we can not only combine these areas, but also do the most effective work for women, whether this is in the family, education, health, social, economic or financial fields – women are everywhere, women are needed everywhere. I therefore find it incomprehensible – and this has been mentioned very often today – that there is still a separation of income shears. All reports show, as only two weeks ago, the Court of Auditors report, which recently documented that women receive only around 61.6 percent of men's median income for their work. That is where we have to put, Mrs Federal Minister, something has to happen, because this income – I don't want to go into the depths at all, we all know the figures and data – leads to women getting into poverty. 16 percent of older women are in poverty. This is not portable for a country like Austria! It's got to change! Ladies and gentlemen, women are still less paid in equal employment, with equal length of stay in farms. Then it is often said, well, they do not have the appropriate training. - That's not true either. We have a lot more women with university degree, much more women with high school, much more women who have graduated and are active in all these areas of education. That's not what it's all about! The question is how we can solve this problem. – This is about equal rights, not only because women, as has been said, ensure 50 percent of economic performance in the country, but also because it concerns a corresponding pension in old age. Women simply need financial independence and social security in old age. To ensure that is a moral task that we have. Therefore, our work for women is not based on what we want for women, but we must ask ourselves what women need in the areas in which they work. And therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister, the conversation is not only necessary with us, but also with the women in the communities, in the districts. We ÖVP women do this, we talk to the women outside and then often get quite different ideas to hear quite different opinions, contrary to what we often believe to have to realize it. Another aspect that is very important to me: We must also work very hard to ensure that structural inequalities cease. Physical work is still better assessed than the work in the care sector and in the helping area, but exactly in this area more women are to be found. That means that there is a need for a general re-evaluation of the work. I hope very much Your commitment in this area. I am very grateful, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have also addressed violence today. I am not just talking about violence in public space, about the fears and concerns of young girls and women when they move in public space, precisely because of the critical situation we have in the country. I am equally concerned with domestic violence, because – you have already said it today – every fifth woman is affected by violence, whether in sexual terms or in physical terms, even small girls. We can't watch that anymore! I would therefore ask, Mrs Federal Minister, that, as we did years ago, you, together with the media, start a campaign again – a campaign for greater security for women, a campaign to raise awareness of women's respect for them, and the broad population, which has now been greatly affected by culturally different women and men, should make it aware of what respect women have to offer in Austria. I ask you, Mrs Minister, to take action in this direction. Another point that is very dear to my heart – I go to the health sector very briefly – is gender medicine. You know this, of course, from your work: We now have a rector in this field, which is welcome, but we need rapid development in the field of gender medicine. We need much more efficient research and training. It is not only about different gender-specific effects of medications or different gender-specific symptoms in diseases such as heart attack and diabetes. It is high time that we really do everything we can to move on in this area. It is not only about training doctors, not only about demanding gender medicine for all, but also about installing appropriate gender departments in primary hospitals. We need this, and I am very confident, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you, as a medical doctor, will contribute accordingly in the field of health. I know, of course, that the Minister of Health does not have all her hands free in her decisions, but I think we should finally cut and blow these chains – even though many do not like wherever she may sit. In this sense, Mrs. Federal Minister, good!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6268	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6287	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With the World Women's Day and the soon to come In fact, all the media in Austria once again have an opportunity to write about it or to think once a year about why we are still not in Austria, but I believe that this is exactly the root of the problem: It is not enough to talk about quick solutions once a year, if one is not prepared to look at the structural frameworks that have actually led and led to this situation in Austria. This is now very complex and politically difficult to explain, because there are also a few unpleasant truths that all of us should have to question our own, let us say, own role images that we have already anchored for a long time, and also question whether we are really willing to work in principle to ensure that all women in Austria can live independently, because that requires some changes. Mrs. Minister! You have also said in the interview in the “Standard” that you need all government members to solve the problems. – I agree, I believe that all ministers should be women’s ministers. We will not be able to solve the problems otherwise. There are many problems, particularly in the social field, in the labour market policy field, whose solution we have to address, especially if we want to tackle the topic of pay-earners. They also said in the "standard" that the following measures would be necessary to close the wage shears: Wage transparency and the minimum wage you mentioned today. – My thesis is that neither pay transparency in businesses nor the minimum wage will close today’s pay shears on tomorrow. We are always happy to look at countries such as Sweden, Iceland, Norway, which seem to have made everything better, where women and men are as equal as possible, in which there is almost a fifty-fifty division of care responsibilities where men and women, both sexes in part-time, where women are not forced into retirement, do not end up in poverty. Yes, and then we are looking for a magical solution that should lead us suddenly to the utopian future after decades of inactivity from today to tomorrow. Just as you can't do a study from today to tomorrow or from today to tomorrow you can't do the magic administrative reform, I think it won't work even with the Gender Pay Gap. If it were so easy to solve, you would have to ask yourself why we haven't done this for a long time. You have also said that you want to get in touch with other organisations and listen to what solutions they have on Gender Pay Gap. We would also like to make our proposals. But these are not too simple, and they are not easy to communicate, because they are just a complex problem. On the one hand, this is about the partially subsidized conservative role assignment. There has been a debate on this in Vorarlberg's Landtag, which obviously has also led to tensions in the Black and Green Government, because there are still benefits, such as the Vorarlberg family grant, which is quite explicitly aimed at introducing an old conservative picture of women, with taxpayers' money, and that is something that we can no longer afford as a society today. We therefore need to look urgently at the benefits financed by taxpayers throughout Austria, with which we continue to report on the state of inequality. Col. Schittenhelm, you said there was a difference of 21 percent in the wage for the same job. That's exactly what the Gender Pay Gap doesn't say, Because it's not about the same job. And this is a problem I have to deal with every day, for example, when men come and say: Oh, the Gender Pay Gap, that's all just invented and almost part of the feminist world conspiracy!, and so on. That's not it. It is about 21 percent difference between what all women in Austria deserve and what all men earn. But that doesn't make it any better for you, it's just as a problem as anything else. The problem is that we are talking about a clear difference here. We're always talking about an explainable or unadjusted Gender Pay Gap. What is that supposed to mean? – If he can be explained, that means that a large part of the Gender Pay Gaps has political reasons that could really be eliminated from today to tomorrow, because there are really solutions to how to eliminate the explainable part. Because explainably, we can all explain it to ourselves. But as we can still take political action to do nothing here, that is another question. The To-do list is really long in the area. I would like to thank Mr Schittenhelm for also addressing gender medicine. That's something very important. One area that is also important to me and which I believe is that there are many opportunities that you can do something here as Minister of Health, that is the area of sexual self-determination. The issue of contraception, for example, is still a taboo issue with us, and I think it would be time for us to finally resolve this in 2017. [[In the case of Members of the NEOS and of the Agg. Gisela Worm.]] We wish you all the best and good luck, because it is all about all the women who come after us, and therefore, I believe, it is in all our sense when we work together with you and draw up constructive proposals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6362	Next speaker: Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6383	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Welcome, Federal Minister Rendi-Wagner! It has already been said: There are 4.4 million girls and women living in this country in nine federal states. There are many women who have come here from other countries, have found a new home here and put all hope in our good social system, in our good education system, in our labour market policy care system so that they can take a good foothold here. These 4.4 million women were – we all know – Sabine Oberhauser, with whom I have been very, very happy to cooperate, a real concern. Both in the field of health policy and in the area of women's policy, it is of course inseparable to describe the situation of women without leaving one or the other here. Of course, financial policy, labour market policy, education policy, economic policy are all responsible here and everyone has to try to get on with it. Some have produced themselves today and have almost abolished the federal states. I believe that such a pessimistic, winery basic attitude is not appropriate either, because federalism has something, and I think it has more advantages than disadvantages. That is why we should not want to talk to him in small terms or abolish the federal states, because the responsibility of the federal states, which must be perceived in both the health and women's policies – women's houses – cannot be taken away and attributed to a single person. However, that we find statistics that give us figures, facts and facts – including those of previous speakers from the health field – about the life situation of women who may be different in the West than in the Federal Capital or in the vast Burgenland, is also a fact. And I believe that a lot of people have a common responsibility to deal with these realities of life. This different adjudications of traditional, cultural, but also certain role adjudications such as motherhood, the woman in the mother's role in particular, we certainly would have to overcome this together sometime. To date, for example, in the House of Lords, it has not been possible to move all women's policy-oriented women to work together – Gisela Wurm has made a great effort to do so – to raise women's share here in Parliament too. You could just do that. Now we are making an inquiry, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, we are hopefully bringing a lot further there, so that we can also raise the proportion of women in the House if not already at the level of the population, so at least to 40 percent. [[Complementary of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That won't happen! A person applauds! That doesn't look good!]] Of course, these figures and data, ladies and gentlemen, also provide us with facts on the qualifications of women, on the qualifications of women in general, on the employment of women, on full-time, on part-time, and also on the health skills of people. There is, of course, a lot to be done here in Austria. Pamela Rendi-Wagner was particularly active in the field of health promotion and prevention. And I believe that this is an area that needs to be more focused on and which should not enter the background of standing-political disputes, why perhaps some people in a center are not yet present, as one might have liked. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not build on the green meadow a center and then say you have to go there. It is about the fact that for patients the paths are shorter and no longer that they do not have to drive in hospital hospitals, that people from other health professions can also work and are asked here that the same care is guaranteed on the weekend. On Wednesday afternoon, for example, it is very difficult in Lower Austria to find a practical doctor, a practical doctor, because there are usually no ordination times. I believe these initial services centres can contribute to this and really help ensure that this primary supply is guaranteed. Much has already been said about the women's sector. A person alone cannot vote that. Here, all the parties here in the House are asked to help us quickly achieve a minimum wage, that we quickly reduce the wage shears, that we quickly find a quota scheme, including in the private sector. 40.2 per cent in close-to-state companies, which I believe is quite good, but I think we should all support the new Minister of Women and Health in that she can realise her and our concerns within the meaning of the 4.4 million girls and women in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6430	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, Mrs Minister, I too wish you all the best personally. Many of the concerns that are currently at the forefront of health policy have already been addressed by a number of previous speakers. I don't think it's necessary to go into it again. However, I would like to give you two requests along the way of your certainly not easy function. The one would be to put people at the centre of health policy – everyone who is sick knows how sensitive this topic is – and not to put the patient on the list. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] There are a few things right now in front of a change, for example, of the domestic doctors in the rural area. So here please keep your focus on people. Another important issue in health policy should be prevention. I think the sum of the cocktail that we are delivered to every day is enormously high, starting from the label gap to the chemicals that affect us in daily life. Here, of course, prevention is far cheaper than the repair. So I also ask to keep the focus that we can really stay healthy for a very long time. You have been addressed several times today as a Minister of Health, and you have also been addressed several times as a Minister of Women. I must tell you, however, that I have missed in your speech that you are at least addressing it in a sidenote, because you are also someone who is responsible for a subject that is very, very important to many people – it is, I know, not the main topic, but it is also an important topic –: They are also responsible for animal welfare. And, honestly, I would have expected at least a small sidenote from you, or I would have liked to hear some words from my previous speakers. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Riemer.]] You know, the appreciation of animals is the basis of our social behavior. I'm curious, we'll also be discussing the new Animal Protection Law Novelle tomorrow, and I'm already looking forward to hearing your views. Finally, Mrs Minister, I should like to wish you all the best – you as Minister of Health, as Minister of Women, but also as animal welfare responsible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6504	Next, Mr. Dr. Karlsböck speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6525	Mr President. Dear women ministers! I would like to say in advance: It is symbolic what we are experiencing in the discussion here. First of all: In Sunday's speeches, we conjure up the importance of health and health policy, but in the end it is the classic that two women sit on the government bank here in the health discussion. As has been said, it is left to the women's government members to hold the position here. On the other hand, because we have heard a lot about the quota today, even if this is not necessarily my topic, I would like to hold on to one thing, namely that skilled women do not need quotas in our society. We can see that from the examples of you both, at your Vita – there is still quite certain that the quota was in play. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the real topic: As a doctor, I'm glad that a doctor has become a new Minister of Health. As a scientist and chairman of the Scientific Committee, I am glad that a scientist has taken over this task. And as a father and grandfather, I am concerned about a fact, namely that infectious diseases, which have long since passed away, unfortunately come back again and we are experiencing an uncertainty in the population in terms of prevention and therapy – and I am glad that an expert from this corner has also taken place here on the government bank. But that's what you can be happy about as a politician and a patient, because: Madam Minister, unfortunately, we cannot let you go of the responsibility that you have been not only a leading officer for years, but also as a mastermind behind all the things we are discussing controversially here. It is a fact that today the once so highly praised and indeed best – or one of the best – health system in the world is an blatant rehabilitation case. This has several causes, but for the patients and if you look at it from the patient's perspective, that means – as I have often said today – that I mention it now again – an blatant extension of the waiting time especially in hospital hospitals, it means a long waiting for surgery dates, it means lying in gang beds. And in the established The area of the patients is becoming increasingly rare doctors, the health insurance offices are becoming increasingly rare, the patients also need to be here – you have addressed it: MR/CT – very long waiting for appointments, and much more. We have de facto today a so-called multi-class system. We all know: If it is necessary, then you have to pay for it to get faster and thereby get a timely – and of course by doing so, because it is done in a timely manner, better – treatment. Unfortunately, that's reality. We have a political debate with the standings before us, but not only there. This is the trade union of doctors if you want to do so. And there is a real conflict situation here at the moment, in view of which we have to fear in the long term an unconstitutional state. And why has this situation occurred in this form? I would also like to address you, Mr Spindelberger. First of all, completely stoned and clear: Especially in the social field, as with the hospital doctors at the time, it was simple and simple ignorance and political inability. All right, that's what we can do. But, of course, it is also the refusal of reform in relation to social security, which the social partners really owe to. And the third is really home-made, namely a senseless ideologisation of health policy in recent years. I could now talk about what can be done for abuses and how to do it better, but actually and de facto it is true today that in the so-called PHCs or those centres in which a summary is to be done, nothing else can be seen as a breakdown of the free profession or a change in the cash register system that is still working well today. Mr Spindelberger, if it is in the room that the overall contract is replaced by individual contracts, then the doctors will eventually be extortionable, and nobody will be helped. And when we talk about how we can immediately improve things in the early days, in the evening – Mrs. Colleague said, there is no one in her area on Wednesday – this is quite easy to do. and can be implemented tomorrow by the fact that doctors are finally allowed to hire doctors. I do not understand the policy of brakes in this area at all. We liberals expect you, Mrs. Minister, to meet the high expectations of those who see in you a young, dynamic health manager capable of making the right decisions according to professional criteria, still largely unladen by party political constraints and circumstances. We liberals expect you to bring fresh wind into the rigid system and represent a dynamic view. And we expect support for the structural reform that we are calling for, especially in the inflated administration. Nine local healthcare phones, which currently exist in parallel and serve their respective clients, are a bureaucratic clot on the leg of the increasingly scarce health budget. The health insurance system needs to be narrowed. After all, self-management does not mean self-interest, but service for doctors and patients. Now I would like to say something about the quota, because you have also mentioned today that Parliament must also make an effort: Look, we liberals reject the quota. And I have now made the effort to remove only two committees we are talking about today, these are the Health Committee and the Committee, and it is noted that the SPÖ in the Committee on Social Affairs sends seven men and one woman, and the SPÖ is currently sending six men and two women to the Health Committee. We liberals, who reject the quota, send three men and three women in the Committee, namely parity, and four men and two women in the Committee on Health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, as I said, we don't need to have legal regulations here in this way. – You need an internal discussion on these issues. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! As I said, you are at the beginning of your political career. You're in politics now, but you're far from a politician. You have the chance to go new ways. They're not a union, not a workers' chamber, not an economic union. As I said, you could theoretically, as the colleague said, if you trust to bring about real changes here, far removed party political paths. Benefits You're this time window! The previously liberal restraint – and unfortunately I have to say this again here again – in the health shot and in relation to health issues was exclusively due to Pietät towards your seriously ill predecessor. With their tragic death, our consideration in this area also ends, and the time-limit is over. We expect you to take immediate action on hot health-related iron. We've heard a lot about what's going on wrong today. Unfortunately, we have seen far too few practical proposals. You will see in us, if you follow this path, a benevolent partner, otherwise there will be bitter political resistance, and that would be a pity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6612	Next, Mrs Mag. Aslan to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6634	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck, I am afraid you did not fully understand the quota system. In principle, the question of the quota is that well-qualified women – unlike average qualified men who have ropes – also receive the position to be occupied. But I think that is not only a problem for the FPÖ, but also a problem of some other political groups. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Women's Day: Women's Day is not a holiday for us, but the Women's Day is a fight day for women's rights – which, of course, shows that this is not only necessary worldwide, but that many things do not work well in Austria too. Thanks to the achievements of the women's movement, I am here today as a member of the National Council or I have had the opportunity to study. No one tells me who I'm allowed to marry or how many kids I'm allowed to have. If these achievements were not achieved by the women's movement, then very many women today would probably not even be in the National Council. These achievements of the women's movement are now threatening to fail, because not only in Austria but also in the world, women's policy continues to move at a snail's pace. We've heard before that we've got a massive income scarf. According to the Eurostat study, Austria is in the leading position as regards income shears. It is simply embarrassing to have to watch every year that we land in the last place regarding income shears. On the other hand, the management sets in the large companies are still male dominated. There are still women who are massively exposed to violence. There is still the problem that women's and girls' advisory services are not even sufficiently existentally secured. And it still remains the truth in space – whether you accept it or not – that more than half of the Austrian population is not represented in politics, neither in the economy nor in the media. And if we look at the Pingpong game concerning the Ministry of Women, I would like to point out that it is not only sad, but also tragic: Under the black and blue government, the women's resort was short in the Social Ministry, under the ÖVP it was then again in the Ministry of Health, after which it migrated to the SPÖ and was then somehow anchored in the Ministry of Health, then again in the Ministry of Education. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There's something going on!]] Yes, many of you do not know, but there has already been an independent and independent women's ministry. I find it sad that the SPÖ has just failed in its own achievements, because, colleague Heinisch-Hosek, it was you who dreamed in 2014 that we absolutely need an independent and independent women's ministry. In the 2013 National Council election campaign, you said – I can even quote you – that: “It also shows the importance of women’s policy to political actors.” – Quotes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But with financial equipment and a legislative competence!]] Now let me ask you the question: What importance does Austrian women's policy have for you at all? – We no longer need to talk about it: Look, the Ministry of Women is still being cared for by the Ministry of Health. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true!]] Now, would you please explain to me or to the Austrian women how you – in view of the fact that the Ministry of Women is still being cared for in the Ministry of Health and that we have a budget for the Ministry of Women, which accounts for only 0.01 percent of the total budget – a competent politician who is sitting here, wants to create the framework conditions so that she can make progress in women's policy at all? I do not just want to see as a politician, but also as a woman, that Austrian women's policy continues to move at a snail's pace, because only a progressive women's policy can do much at different levels. If you are really concerned about women's policy, then you simply have to implement it, then you have to go away from this announcement policy and Really implement your own demands so that your Minister of Women will not be presented or presented again after five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6705	It is now Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6726	Mr President. Dear ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely at this item on the agenda that we see how broad the subject of women's policy is and how broad your department, Mrs Bundesminister, is. Health policy, women's policy – there are also many overlaps; Gender policy has been discussed. So there are big issues, big chunks on you and on us all. I would like to draw up three points which you have outlined in your speech as key points, namely the pay-as-you-go, the compatibility of family and work and, thirdly, violence against women. Every fifth woman is affected by violence, rather in the circle of acquaintances and families, as you have done. The points that have been raised, the objectives, the cornerstones are not new. Many ministers before you, from Doris Buresover Gabi Heinisch-Hosek to Sabine Oberhauser, have addressed these points. We discussed these points, these points were on the agenda – but today we are still there. 20 years after the women's people's desire, we still have to clarify these points which you have described here as key points, as key points. I would like to take a brief look at the issue of violence against women because you have not considered or talked about what it looks like to the violence that has been imported into Europe and Austria by the wave of refugees, by the refugee avalanches, by which refugee flows are imported into Europe and Austria. Mrs Minister, this is a big problem! And if you have perhaps looked at the criminal statistics or the reports on them in the wake of your fishing observation last week, you know that this is a sign that there is a great need for action. The crime rate is rising, the sexual assaults, the violent crimes are going up quickly, the women no longer dare to leave the house in the evening to be on their own. We don't need that in 2017, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They have addressed – and I hope this also refers to women’s policy and not just to health policy – that people should be at the heart of the issue. I hope that you will also see this for your entire political activity and push back ideology, so that it really is the focus of what women want, what Austrians want, because we are here to work for the citizens and do the best for them – and not to represent any ideology or party policy. You have become a member of the SPÖ, and you have celebrated it very much, and that is what you do not mind, but of course I hope that you will do your best for the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6772	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6796	Mr President. The women's ministers! High house! Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner, first of all congratulations and good for your choice! I am pleased that a colleague again occupies these important posts. Although the Ministry of Health has few competences, it has many tasks, and we have already heard a lot about what there is to be done. I see less fulfilled the hopes I have placed in you, because some of the comments to which I have spoken raise my objection. First of all, the Gender Pay Gap: I think that with hardly a political keyword, as much abuse is being done as with the Gender Pay Gap, with the wage shear between man and woman. This wage-earner of 21 percent, who is always baffled by the media and politics, is so not true. There the average between man and woman is taken. One must, please, break down to the individual sectors, to the working age, to the trainings, to the wishes of women and so on. There are many, many individual factors out of which this Gender Pay Gap, these wage shears are composed. And if I really want to achieve something for women – and I want this, I'm a confessing woman politician – then I have to refer to the unexplained gender pay Gap, and that, please, is 3.5 percent in most sectors up to 11 percent in a few sectors. So we're talking about 3.5 percent, and that's what women's policy should focus on – not on the keyword: 21 percent difference. This is unfair discussion and unfair argumentation technology. It actually harms women, because it comes with a non-fact-based policy You're not going on, but you're just going to make one: They use the resentment. That is the effect of this policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm looking for you: Use Please have the exact numbers! A minister is always an example – every politician must also be an example – and we will only move on if we stick to the truth and to the true concepts. Otherwise, every policy will ultimately fail. As for the women's quota, I always immediately think of the quota woman. The women's quota does nothing but exasperate the woman. A women's quota creates quota women and creates depraved women. – You are all sitting here not as women of the quota, but because you have done something because you represent something because you have been appointed to your offices. On this one has to rely, not on a senseless gender-based equality ratio, that you say fifty-fifty or even 51 to 49 percent. Please let us go here and create a gender-based quota everywhere, in all professions! Then the women should become canal rooms, then the men should become midwives, and then we need not only a male midwives, but then we need 1,000 male midwives in Austria – there are more than 2,000 midwives in Austria. Then do it like that! Then you make a socially violent policy that creates such equality between the sexes! - That ends in nonsense. Please consider this by: It all ends in nonsense. Leave this chatter out of the quotas! It does nothing and always hurts women when you think it through to the end and you're honest. Now on health policy: Madam Minister, I wish you all the best! Unfortunately, a disappointment has already been preprogrammed here. In your first comments on the first centres of supply, you have expressed unabatedly positive views. I can't take that. The current plans of the Ministry of Health are clearly directed against the freedom of doctors, they are directed against the freedom of the profession and they destroy something that the people urgently need, namely the freedom of doctors. That is not the way to make a health policy! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] As doctors, we are willing to enter into every discussion, to hold every debate when we have the space to do so. We are not prepared to purchase politically ordered, octroyed primary supply centers – which remind me of the GDR. In the GDR, there has been something like that, in the form of the Polyclinic. Only the older among us will know this: The GDR was covered by more than 500 polyclinics. These were small units in which doctors and sisters had to work together and ensure the health care of the population – more bad than right. We reject that. It is essential for the population and for health care to have the doctor as an independent profession, and this is primarily the basic care by the domestic doctors and individual care through the individual coordination in the specialist practice. [[It was in favour of representatives of the FPÖ and of Deputies Doppler and Schmid.]] This is essential, and I insist that every doctor who is to be taken seriously in politics will insist on it. But that does not mean that we generally reject medical centers. On the contrary: We need the freedom of doctors. The doctors should be able to join in centres to decide how they can offer the best health care to the population. This must be done by the doctors, not by politics, which at the green table decides when who is best sick and when who is to come to which hospital. This is nonsense, this is centralist planning, and where centralist planning has failed, we know that: 1989 in the entire eastern block. You left all of this and you gave up. Look Today it goes to Hungary, where relics of the centralist health policy are still present. There the doctors earn little, are in the state service, and each patient has to go with an envelope and buy the additional service from the doctor. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Is that what you want? Do you want to support such a thing in Austria? - I don't think so. Mrs Minister, I should like to invite you to take a different approach. In me, you'll find an ally. I've been in the profession for 25 years – I'm an established doctor, I was a hospital director, I was a primary doctor – I know all of this. If you want my expertise, please. [[Abg. Heinzl: No one needs it!]] I'm ready for a conversation at any time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6886	Mr Dr Franz, I would ask you not to qualify as a chatter after all. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Yes, that's true!]] Her choice of words was at the border with the order call. Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6917	Mr President. Remaining members of the government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to begin by thanking the Minister Oberhauser, who died much too early, especially for her humanity and for her commitment. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the new Minister for Health and Women has already achieved one – one of my previous speakers has mentioned it –: When I look at the government bank, I see that 100 percent of the remaining government members are women. Madam Minister, congratulations on this! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mrs. Minister, there are big chunks waiting for you, big challenges. One thing the new Minister of Health must be of great concern: a complete health care for people throughout our country, in our beautiful Austria. I think it has also been mentioned by one of my previous speakers that it is important to maintain supply facilities, especially in rural regions. These centres also addressed by Dr. Franz are not the right way. The practical doctors must be strengthened in every respect, for one is important: A relationship of trust between the doctor and the patient must be established! It cannot be that the supply in the rural area is completely diluted and eroded. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new Minister – Mrs. Weigerstorfer has also mentioned this – is also responsible for animal welfare. I believe that animal welfare is a very important aspect of health. Sabine Oberhauser has been very committed to shorter waiting times in MRI investigations and the like. Mrs Minister, I think you have to do everything you can to eliminate these misdemeanors. It may not be that a patient has to wait three months for an MRI investigation. This is a big problem, especially with us in the country. I ask you to take measures to ensure that the supply is ensured and, if this is not possible with the contracting parties, to create a legal basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6972	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6993	Mr President. Ladies of the Federal Government! Mrs Federal Minister for Health and Women! New members of the government are usually granted a time-limit and a time-limit. Our health policy is currently subject – as before – to national defence and security policy. It is considered to be evidence that such massive savings on the part of the Federal Government represent the wrong path and require even greater financial effort for the necessary reorganisations. In the case of health, the taxpayer is also asked about the health insurance contributions. Mrs. Minister, you, as a former section chief in the Ministry of Health, are not a political cross-country beginner. The expectations of your office are very high. Changes in health policy should not in any way lead to a multi-class medicine. The family doctor has great confidence in his patients, can be reached in the short term and must not be replaced by so-called primary care centres. The topography of Austria must not be ignored in case of system changes. Savings lead to reductions in performance at the expense of patients. Of particular importance is the emergency care, which is particularly at risk in rural areas due to long distances. The necessary savings are in the case of: It is also necessary to implement bureaucracy and a reduction in health insurance funds. An equivalent system of benefits is urgently needed in relation to the health insurance schemes still in place at that time. Summary: There are a large number of construction sites to be solved in favour of the population or patients. I wish you every success for your new field of activity, Mrs. Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7026	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The agenda is exhausted. As the urgent debate on written question 12374/J cannot take place before 12 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall interrupt the sitting until 12 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7065	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:03:36]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Peter Pilz, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport on the action taken by the Republic of Austria against the Airbus Group (12374/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7101	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 12374/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7243	Before we come to the grounds for the request, I declare that the request supported by at least 46 Members. 3/US according to § 33 para. 1 GOG on the establishment of an investigation committee on the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system. This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. The assignment of the request to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure shall take place at the end of this meeting. The desire is as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7442	I now give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz as the first questioner to justify the question. This statement shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7463	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you can still remember Parliament meetings quite exactly ten years ago in this House. At the time, we did not know that there had already been a written agreement between the Minister of Defence and Eurofighter in parallel with the meetings of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, in which an additional point was made as one of the last points: “It is assumed that the EF Investigation Committee will end its work at the end of June 2007.” – That’s exactly what happened. We'll take a closer look at that. At the time, however, the rulers were accountable. They turned the committee off, but they turned it off too late. We have already found the most important traces in the first Eurofighter investigation committee. The most important was the trace to Vector Aerospace, to a mailbox network in which 183.4 million € of Austrian taxpayers disappeared and returned to Austria on narrow paths over at least a hundred letterbox companies. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] You turned off too late, ladies and gentlemen of the time. Without the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, there would have been no court proceedings, the perpetrators would be safe and the billions would be foot. But since the prosecutors in Vienna, Rome and Munich have then clarified and secured tens of thousands of pages of new documents, because we too have been researching, we can and must examine for a second time. The times have changed. Now, ten years later, it is no longer said to be Greens against government parties, against Federal Chancellors and Ministers, against Eurofighters and against EADS, but today it is, and this is very important: Republic of Austria at government level and in parliament jointly against Airbus Defence and against Eurofighter GmbH. For the first time, we all represent the interests of the Republic together. I can't imagine that today some Member or in the case also a member of the ÖVP or SPÖ stands up and says that was a good business, these are the best planes, that was 100 percent clean and we get 200 percent counter-businesses. – We know that the business was dirty, that it was a huge damage to the Republic of Austria, and that we have to do everything we can to change it in order to take responsibility for those responsible and to recover the money from our taxpayers and taxpayers. [[Congratulation with greens and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] We have been cheated and lied by Eurofighter and Airbus. It has been lubricated, countermeasures have been falsified, and the Republic has been damaged to billions. But there is something to be done, and that is the development of criminal proceedings. In the beginning it was called unfaithfulness, an internal-business offence with Eurofighter and Airbus as a victim. It has already been said by fraud, by the announcement of the first Minister of Defence for a very, very long time, which effectively and clearly represents the interests of the Republic of Austria on this issue. Fraud means the Republic is being damaged and Airbus and Eurofighters are the suspects. But now we will have to go one step further, and I will read to you § 278a of the Criminal Code in the essential provisions: ‘Whoever establishes a long-term business-like link between a larger number of persons or participates in such a connection as a member (...), 1. who, although not exclusively, seeks, on a recurring and planned basis, to commit serious criminal acts that threaten life, physical integrity, freedom or wealth (...) 2. which thereby strives to enrich to a large extent (...) and 3. to corrupt or intimidate the others or to protect themselves in a special way against prosecution measures shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years.’ In addition, § 64 para. 1 Z 4 Criminal Code states that ‘independent of the criminal laws of the crime scene’, ‘acts committed abroad’ are to be pursued in this way. – That is, we have to assume that Eurofighter and Airbus Defence are not a company, but perhaps a criminal organisation. For the first time, we understand why we need these provisions in the Criminal Code, which have been misused in the past against animal protectionists and comparable groups. Now it is up to those who have really been able to form a criminal organization to a great extent and in a large way, and who have obviously formed a criminal organization – this will clarify the criminal justice. We are today asking the Minister of Defence whether his task force is also making considerations in this direction and what could be the next steps of the Ministry in this context. However, we must also ask ourselves what further to examine, and there is a big question that is going through: If fraud consists of deception and injury, then the damage of the Republic is probably undisputed. Is it really imaginable, however, that from German Chancellor Schüssel to German chancellor Gusenbauer have all been deceived? Do we really have completely incompetent, incompetent and so easy to deceive governments and trade ministers behind us, or were some involved in the deception? Are some of the mentioned and some other people not on the side of the Republic, but on the other side, that is, on the side of Eurofighter? . That is exactly what a committee of inquiry has to clarify, which is what we have done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What was wrong with Wolfgang Schüssel? What was wrong with Karl-Heinz? Grasser? What about Martin Bartenstein? What happened to Herbert Scheibner? What was wrong with Jörg Haider and what was wrong with many others? What about Norbert Darabos, what about Alfred Gusenbauer? – We will clarify this, because unlike in 2007, we have a large number of documents and witness statements and will therefore be able to answer these questions in the Committee of Inquiry. We will clarify who was with the party, which officials and which members of the government; and when we have explained who was with the party, we will be able to talk about political responsibility one last and final time. Now, of course, many of us are asking: Does it not harm the Republic if it turns out that the Republic’s decision-makers may have been on the other side and could not be deceived at all? – Let me compare this with a full-length bank robbery: If the bank robber has a compliment in the bank, no one in criminal proceedings will come up with the idea to say: He had a compliment in the bank, so the bank was not harmed by the robbery. – That is obviously nonsense. Instead, it is about pursuing not only the bank robber but also his compliments in the bank. The same was true with Eurofighter and the Republic of Austria: This was a combat plane raid on the Republic, and we ask not only who was involved from outside, but also who was involved in it, so that the Republic of Austria can determine not only against Eurofighter and Airbus, that is, against the possible criminal organization, but also against possible internal complications – whether in the Federal Government or in the administration, in particular the Ministry of Defense. This is the next very crucial point we have to clarify. What are we gonna do? – We will first examine what happened with the Darabos comparison – not because this is the most important thing, but because it is about possible limitation periods there and only then. We do not want the Republic's claims to be delayed in June and July of this year, especially in criminal justice. We will ask exactly: What happened back then? How was it possible for a republic to decide to buy brand new Mercedes, and then a defense minister appears and says: I did a great business, I put 3 million € on it per piece and we get instead of brand new Mercedes used Ladas – great! That was in the material core of the Darabos comparison, and we will clarify that. One thing I don't think personally – but I don't want to prejudge the investigation – that Norbert Darabos was doing this for personal reasons. Whoever knows him knows Norbert Darabos was and is not personally corrupt. There must be other reasons why this decision has been taken against the Republic of Austria and for Eurofighter; and this is not about the Minister of Defence, but also about his then head, the Social Fighter Alfred Gusenbauer. We want to know why and how the Social Fighter has become a Eurofighter, and we will experience this under the obligation of truth in this Investigation Committee. But then we'll make it clear: That won't be a Darabos committee – certainly not! During the time when the type decision fell and the purchase contract was signed a year later, the SPÖ was together with us opposition party in this House. It's about other parties. This is about the ÖVP and the Freedom Party. It is very important that we, as Members of Parliament, say: No single compartment in the Eurofighter body cellar remains unopened. We look at everything together! It is important to me personally that the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ have also signalled: You can't stay in the basement! So let's look at this together, even if it's not just about Riess-Passer, about Grasser, about Scheibner and many others, but perhaps about an Even-Bundesrat named Dörfler! That too we will have to look at everything in peace. That's what we're looking for. Then we want to know: What really happened to this chancellor breakfast? What happened the night before? Who's met with who? And how did a decision for flu become a decision for Eurofighter in one night? Has this decision really been made by the Federal Chancellor, or has it been made in a small settlement south of Vienna, which is owned by a large international company? What really happened? What's the name of the key persons? Are they really called Wolfgang Schüssel and Jörg Haider, or are they called Karl-Heinz Grasser and Siegi Wolf? – We will have to ask these questions in the Committee of Inquiry, and we will take a very close look at the role of Magna and its management. Before, however, it is about the dubious payment flows. I'll tell you one thing: It is one of our greatest commitments to find out how Eurofighter has made lubrications with the help of Austrian politicians from € 183.4 million taxpayers € 183.4 million. It is inconceivable and really unique in the history of corruption in Austria that taxpayers in this Republic still have to co-finance the lubricating money! Even that has been demanded of them! Therefore, there is a crucial point in finding out where this has gone. There are traces of Klagenfurt, there are traces of Linz, there are particularly important traces of Vienna, and we have these traces in the investigation committee. That's what we're gonna do! Ladies and gentlemen, it will start the final round. With this Committee of Inquiry, on which the desire has now been brought together by the FPÖ and us, we are launching the final round for Eurofighter and for Airbus Defence. We want clarity now and we want to conclude this case. We want those responsible to be brought before criminal courts, namely for infidelity, for fraud, for bribery and for the formation of a criminal organisation. We want to know who helped them politically and in administration. Who were the Austrian compliments? We also want to clarify: Who was politically responsible? I still have a little bit in my ears, the jubilation that was given by the government parties at that time, how great it is, how great it is, and I tell you one thing personally: I remember very well how we conducted government negotiations with Federal Chancellor Schüssel and were sitting with him in the office far after midnight – Eva Glawischnig, Alexander Van der Bellen and Eva Lichtenbergerer were there from our side – and then the Federal Chancellor says: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We can agree on everything, but the Eurofighters must sign their Greens. Without Eurofighter, there is no black-green. We asked: Is that really your serious? Is it really serious for you to let a possible reform government with green participation just because of the Eurofighters? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Cushion has told us that without Eurofighter there is nothing, black-green there is only with Eurofighter. [[Abg. Fekter:... Wolfgang Schüssel wanted with green...!]] I thought at some point we could ask why the Eurofighters were so important to Wolfgang Schüssel, why Wolfgang Schüssel decided to continue ruling with the liberals and not to rule with us, and why the Eurofighters were more important than a reform government. That is a political question to be clarified. We will ask this question in the Committee of Inquiry, and I am sure that Dr. Schüssel will answer it, and perhaps we too – because there are documents there – the address of “Dr. Lüssel, who is mentioned several times, so that we also “Dr. Lüssel can be loaded. That's the last round, and the third point is: Money back. We will not accept that billions of Austrian taxpayers have disappeared in dark channels. I don't care if Italians, Britishs, Germans or Austrians, Eurofighter managers, lubrication specialists or Austrian politicians and officials have enriched themselves. We want to know who got what, and we want the money back, all the money. My goal is not only to get back the damage of €1.1 billion, but all the money, everything except the last euro, except the last cent. We want to keep Austrian taxpayers harmless. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think that's important. We will support the Minister of Defence in his efforts to sue the damage with all parliamentary means, but we want more. We just want everything. Then there's one last point, and that's Eurofighter back. I don't know how much of this flying lubricating money is still flightable. Are there five Eurofighters, seven Eurofighters? There can certainly no longer be any more flying – two are already cannibalized, as the Republic of Austria no longer gets any spare parts. Those who can fly should fly back, and with regard to the rest, we will confidently turn to the Austrian Federal Railways and ask them to account for the rest of this Glumpert to Bavaria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Then we made a clean table, and that's what it's all about. We can do a pure table, because, I say it again, the Republic is behind us and the Minister of Defence has promised us that, of course, we will get all the files unblackened as soon as possible. We also have this commitment from the Minister of Justice – all the files quickly, unblackenedly. We will clarify with the public prosecutor that we are not hindering sensitive investigations of the prosecutor's office, and we will take into account our file requirements and our surveys, but one thing that will be important: that, unlike the Hypo-Research Committee, experience with the new Rules of Procedure had to be gained there, we have shown that a committee, specifically focused on the most important points, is compactly perceiving decisions and thus clarifying political responsibility and perhaps also providing evidence of criminal responsibility. We will do this in the shortest possible time, and we will show the Republic of Austria that the Austrian National Council, the Parliament, is still the most reliable instrument for the investigation and fight against corruption. I am looking forward to starting the project together with you, and I am sure that we will succeed in the interests of the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7556	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Doskozil. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7577	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I mean, this procurement process and all the accompanying documents relating to the procurement process of Eurofighters have been very intensive for us – the media, politics, as well as justice – in recent years. We now have the opportunity, on the one hand, to put an end to this issue in the course of this Committee of Inquiry and, on the other hand, to clarify the subject in the course of criminal proceedings involving private parties. I personally am firmly convinced that this issue needs to be clarified. It is of course for me – and this has already been said here – that we will cooperate within the Committee of Inquiry that we will make all the documents available. The Minister of Justice has also announced that all documents will be made available without delay. I think it's very important that this cooperation works. I see you all as a partner on this subject. Only if we in this causa and in this criminal proceedings, which are about to act against Airbus and to ensure that Austrian tax money returns, abandon political hack and take off party-political glasses, will we be fully informed. The decision of the National Security Council has also shown that this is possible in a wide-ranging and comprehensive manner. Both this decision by the National Security Council, in which support for the follow-up, for the pre-running of this criminal offence, and also the fact that the investigation procedure against Airbus has already been initiated by the judiciary, confirm me in this procedure. ==References== On 1 February 2017, a criminal complaint was filed with private parties. We did this after months of testing for two reasons. The first consideration: For me, it is quite clear that such behavior, such a corrupt, deceptive, fraudulent behaviour of a group towards the Republic, on the one hand, and on the other, must be clarified. The second aspect, which is, of course, also essential, is that the damage must be remedied. According to our calculations, there is a damage that can amount to up to €1.1 billion by 2016. The damage is becoming more and more, and I believe that everyone here must contribute to the recovery of this damage and to the recovery of this money, which the Republic, the taxpayer, has also been taken back to the Ministry of Defence in the final effect. We also see ourselves in the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office has started this procedure and has subsequently also initiated the investigation procedure against this group. For me, however, two aspects are very important. On the one hand, we also have to ask ourselves in the department how we will deal with procurement procedures in the future, how we behave when it comes to making arms procurement, because this question is also about the trust of the population. The department of defence enjoys the trust of the population. The department of defence has received additional budgets, and we must make every effort to ensure that, if we initiate procurement, we can implement them in such a way that they meet public confidence. That is why we have also asked the President of the Financial Procuratorate to work out rules of conduct for our venue by the end of May of this year – rules of conduct that allow clean arms operations, which in any case also highlight the counter-business problems, but also the role of the arms lobbyists. [[Abg. Lugar: There are rules!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I say it from my point of view here and today: I am convinced that in the future – if results are put on the table – arms operations can take place without counter-businesses excluding armament lobbyists, and I am glad about that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] A second aspect, which is, of course, essential for the defence sector, but also for the Republic, is the question: How does active airspace surveillance continue? We have the constitutional task of actively monitoring the airspace with combat jets, with military means, but we also have to ask ourselves, regardless of the outcome of this criminal procedure, the question as to how, in this situation – with a plane that is on and on itself expensive in operation, which causes enormous costs when it comes to upgrades, and which also needs a second pilot as a training pilot, which would now and for itself be needed, to proceed with active airspace surveillance. Here too, we have made a clear statement: By the end of June of this year, the commander of the air forces must assess from an economic point of view how future militaryly effective – that is the prerequisite – but cost-effective, economically acceptable, also to the taxpayer, active airspace surveillance should take place. [[Abg. Lugar: Hot Air Balloon!]] However, this also means quite frankly that there can be a decision which, from economic considerations, could mean the end of the Eurofighter from a certain point of view. This result will be available at the end of June. But now to answer the individual questions in detail. Questions 1 and 2: I've been on the 21st. Feber 2017 wrote a letter to the Executive Board of the Airbus Group Dr. Thomas Enders and invited him to participate in the further investigation work. ==References====External links== February 2017 with a letter to Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern; I received this letter shortly. In this letter, the Chairman of the Executive Board repeated the inconspicuous accusations of his Group speaker and again named Dipl.-Kfm. Thinker as a contact person. ==References== In February 2017, a representative of Eurofighter informed Air Force Commanders about the interest of Eurofighter in the continuous continuation of operational and technical-logistic cooperation. ==References== ==References====External links== Thinkers directly via e-mail to the head of the Task Force Eurofighter and to the President of the Financial Procuratorship and merely repeated that he is the contact of Airbus. Question 3: Dem The Department of Defense is known as the result of the investigations of the firm Clifford Chance commissioned by Airbus through file inspection at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. It is also known to the defence department that Airbus was granted the status as a victim in the Austrian criminal proceedings. Such active support from the investigative authorities is unknown to the department of defence. According to the Department of Defence, no former civil and/or criminal employees have been held responsible until today by Airbus and Eurofighter. This approach appears inconsistent. ==References== On 1 February 2017, the Airbus Department of Defense filed a criminal complaint against Airbus. Question 4: In 2013, Dipl.-Kfm. Wolf-Peter Denker of Airbus appointed as the so-called Executive Board Officer to the Austrian authorities. In a subsequent discussion, it was explained to the Department of Defence that it acts as a contact person at the expert level in relation to the clarification of open questions relating to procurement. In addition, concrete requests from the Task Force were made by Dipl.-Kfm. The thinker didn't answer it. Airbus has not handed over any documents to the defence department and therefore does not support the task force's investigation work. As mentioned above, Dipl.-Kfm. Yesterday, thinkers by e-mail to the head of the Task Force Eurofighter and the President of the Financial Procuratorship and simply repeated that he was available for inquiries. Question 5: A communication on this subject from Airbus or Eurofighter is not available to the defence body until now. Questions 6 and 7: In March 2017, the Bulgarian Ministry of Defence approached the Defence Division by a lawyer assigned there and asked for an exchange of experience. As far as the Task Force is aware, Bulgaria has imposed an arbitration procedure against Airbus in connection with alleged accusations of corruption, which is now under way. This is related to the acquisition by the Bulgarian Ministry of Defence of Cougar and Panther helicopters in the years 2006 to 2009 and 2011 respectively. The Ministry of Defence will now instruct a lawyer to enter into an exchange of experience within the framework of legal possibilities with his counterpart in Bulgaria. This information will also be provided to other interested colleagues. Question 8: The chosen procedure and the investigations of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office made it possible to ensure that the suspicions of fraud raised in the advertisement can no longer be delayed by criminal law. In addition, the concrete private participation declaration of the Financial Procuratorship ensures that the civil rights of the Republic of Austria against Eurofighter and Airbus are not limited. Such a concreteised private party connection breaks down the limitation after constant judicatur. The defence department has therefore done everything to prevent the limitation of the Republic of Austria's civil rights against Airbus and Eurofighter. On the question 9: In the framework of the Task Force Eurofighter, the US law firm Skadden also examines any infringements of US compliance regulations. Question 10: There are currently two procurement projects with two companies belonging to the Airbus Group. These procurement operations are necessary to maintain air operations and thus airspace monitoring. This concerns, on the one hand, spare parts and on the other, engine update. On the question 11: Depending on the results of the criminal proceedings and the assessment of the commander of the air forces on options for future orientation of airspace surveillance, two contracts concluded temporarily in the event of the continuation of the Eurofighter, namely on the maintenance of the Eurofighters and on the training simulator, would be to be extended for maintenance in December 2018 and May 2019. Question 12: Under the direction of the President of the Financial Procuratorate Dr. Wolfgang Peschorn, a working group set up in the defence department on compliance – clean procurement will present by the end of May the comprehensive catalogue of measures drawn up on the basis of the available findings. On the question 13: The defence department currently has no information that such lobbyists operate in ongoing procurement operations, but I cannot rule out the fact that armor lobbyists are hidden from suppliers. As mentioned above, the compliance project aims to develop appropriate measures for the sustainable retention of such operations that are on the part of the provider. Questions 15 and 16: In the last ten years, counter-actions have been requested in connection with several arms procurements. This is an update of the AB-212 transport helicopter and the extension of the life of the BILL tank defense weapon, procurement of Iveco multi-purpose vehicles, procurement in the field of military radio, upgrade of the Mistral aircraft aircraft and procurement of the Conrad military radio system. Currently running a tender S-70 Black Hawk, Avionic replacement. A provider has submitted a counter-business offer and it is currently being examined whether this counter-business offer is to be taken into account in the bidder process. ==References== On 3 March 2017, the Commission decided to suspend the obligation to carry out counter-actions relating to arms procurement by the defence body. Until the results of the working group on compliance – clean procurement, as explained in question 7, are a provisional measure. On the question 17: There are indications that have been taken into account in the preparation of the case-law, in particular from the well-known vector network and the associated broker and subbroker structures. It is suspected that this network was controlled by Eurofighter and Airbus. In concrete terms, the relevant statements are found in the facts in recitals 200 to 205. That's Randnumber 203 literally: This is based on the suspicion that Eurofighter and Airbus’s decision-makers and leading employees at that time established a business-like link that should serve to establish recurring criminal acts in order to enrich themselves and provide other people with an advisory and interest network with asset benefits that did not face adequate counter-performance. - Quote. The suspicion of the crime of the criminal organisation is thus expressed according to § 278a StGB. In addition, these notes have long since been examined by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, which is based on the suspicion that the funds paid by EADS Germany have been carried out to Vector from the company and should serve corruption purposes. Of course, all information received from the Task Force in this context has been and will be forwarded to the competent public prosecutor's office in Vienna. The Task Force will continue to follow these instructions in the future, thereby supporting the investigative authorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7691	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7718	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that this minority demand has come about, and therefore first of all: Respect for the Minister of Defence, that he really activated the task force already set up before his term of office here in a courageous way! The question that arises is: What did the Task Force do until you took office as Minister of Defense? From the time you have become Minister of Defense, sleep mode may have changed – I put it in space once – and one may have become active in this way, which has finally led to this criminal offence. Among other things – respect, to whom respect is due! – Peter Pilz, with his information, obviously contributed to this criminal offence. That was the background, too, why, when that was done, I publicly demanded that I pass this fine and the more detailed information; unfortunately, it took God a little while for it to be fulfilled. Fortunately, however, you have taken care to convene the National Security Council on the gangs, namely, through the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to present the criminal charges there and to give the opportunity to finally meet my request. I also say that we should go for a coffee more often, Mr Peter Pilz, because then we come together and we can talk once. With all the differences that exist between us politically – that was not a marriage of love, on the contrary – it is important to exchange information. That was good and right, because that is what I asked for, and then there was a basis for decision. It was clear to me, of course, to do everything possible to ensure an investigation into this minority demand by FPÖ and Greens. I remember: The National Security Council has unanimously supported the prosecution, and this is good because we all have the possible damage – and that can do how They have said that more than €1.1 billion is needed – in the common interest, in the interests of the Republic and the Austrian citizen. That is, I think, put out of dispute. At the second point, it looks different. I remember the year 2006. When I managed to get the Freedom Party back to Parliament and to secure a club again in the National Council election, it was one of our first decisive decisions among me as the clubman of the Freedom Party to secure an investigation committee. I can also remind you of this, and I would like to mention it in praise: It was Klubobmann Cap and then Peter Pilz, who, together with me, carried out this Eurofighter investigation committee. In some sectors of Parliament it was not a great pleasure to do so. It was also important to also use the Banking Investigation Committee at the time. It is, of course, a matter of ensuring a complete clarification now, because there is also a pre-history on it. The first investigative committee has been turned off. be. That was scandalous! It was scandalous because it is known today that the then Minister of Defense in the negotiations with EADS probably took such a position also because of a requirement by the then Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer. I believe that the former Minister of Defense Darabos has not simply handled this alone and will not have made the decision on his own, but that in the background of his former party friend and Chancellor Gusenbauer, he will very likely have already informed him of what he has to do. That is the case, for this is not the way to act; that is to the detriment of the Republic. However, this committee of inquiry has been scandalously turned off. It is good that we continue there now, even in view of the fact that there will be no more blacks in the materials from the ministries – at least from the Ministry of Defence – and that there are new references and documents transmitted to us. So there will certainly be some more. It is important to note that, of course, we are not tribunal and not court. We are an investigative committee, a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which ultimately has to clarify the political responsibility. Of course, we do not have to carry out investigations ourselves – that is the duty of the prosecutor. However, we can make our contribution to the fact that something or other might still come to light. We have political responsibility in all areas, no matter who has or has any rank, no matter who is affected, no matter which party someone has been active in. Anyone who has been blamed for something, anyone who has damaged the Republic, anyone who has acted corruptly, anyone who has accepted lubricating payments, anyone who has been active in the damage of Austrian taxpayers, has to be held accountable. That is the crucial point, and this also belongs to the quality of cleanliness, if you seriously mean it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as representatives of the Greens.]] So it is important that there is this minority demand, because the Committee cannot simply be turned off that way. If one or the other side of the government parties perhaps suggests some escape mode in the back of the head: At the next election they will certainly be held accountable. If one believes there is a need to flee in new elections, under whatever conditions, because the government is unable or no longer willing, then new elections will probably not be preventable, but you will also bear the responsibility for preventing further investigations in the investigation committee. I can say right now from this point of view: If you turn this off, I'll be sure he'll continue after the next National Council election. We're not going to watch out for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context perhaps a small historical review, because it is simply necessary, because it is always presented something different – just a small one, you allow: 2002, the procurement. We know that at that time, by Mr. Bartenstein and others from the ÖVP, from the FPÖ, from the government partner FPÖ, from Grasser and Scheibner, the decision was suddenly changed overnight. Of course, this has already been very upset by the liberal officials, and this has also led to the situation that the so-called rebels, as they were then mentioned in all the newspapers, have rebelled against the constructive forces of this government. There the rebels – even I was under it at the time – were called destructive by the media landscape. I just want to remember that. This has led to this harsh criticism to Knittelfeld, where a special party meeting has been convened because the entire freedom base has said: That's not our party anymore! This is no longer our party leader, who is no longer acting in the interests of Austrian citizens and their own party decisions! This led to a split in 2005. Today, all the personalities who took and were responsible for these decisions with the ÖVP, with bowl and co, are closed at the BZÖ, and that is good. That is good, because it shows that we had already had the cleaning power in our own party at that time, processes that are rightly criticised and enlightened, have not tolerated and have not watched. – This is a very important point, just to do the truth enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the announcement of the Minister of Defense, Airbus – rightly or unjustly – will have to clarify this to the court, but it is already very plausible – is accused of deliberately deceiving the Austrian buyer, yes, cheating and causing him this damage. Of course, it is right to note how it could be that the entire government team and so many officials, so many professionals, can be deceived and cheated. There is, of course, the suspicion that one or another has played in a network to make such fraud and such deception possible at all. Of course it's obvious, and that's exactly what you have to do. It is to be illuminated the entire networks that stand in the room – of course criminal networks – and, of course, the first point is the comparative negotiations, otherwise this will be delayed after ten years. The role of former German Chancellor Gusenbauer will also be appropriate, for it is not in the interest of the Republic to ensure that a German chancellor, who has still had “social fighter instead of Eurofighter” put in the 2006 election campaign, could not have been in the interest of the Republic. He would have had the opportunity to do so because the contract of EADS was not respected, yes was broken and not the ordered Mercedes, but a VW-kafer was delivered. This would have caused the entire damage to the Republic and to taxpayers. But there were obviously other interests there, and there may even have been an instruction from Mr Gusenbauer, the then chancellor, to the Minister for Defence. Again: I don't think he made the decision alone. In this way it is clear, and that is, as has been said, to clarify quickly, because otherwise the limitation will take place after ten years in July, so you have to light it in good time and in good time. Of course, it is also necessary to highlight developments in counter-businesses, which we have also formulated, because many of them are acceptable there or there, but some are not at all. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Of course, this is correctly formulated and correctly evaluated in an overall view by us in the four points. Final sentence: Yes, Enlightenment on all levels – no one will be able to refuse it! In this case, the minority has been concerned about this, and that is a good thing. Sometimes you have to get up and get something good coming out.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7838	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7859	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's issue, which is ultimately the establishment of a committee of inquiry on Eurofighter, is a very serious issue in this Republic, and I am, first of all, grateful to Mr Doskozil for allowing and driving forward these new investigations. It was the results of the Task Force, which brought to light that there is condensing evidence that the Republic of Austria has been deceived by the Eurofighter Group and that this deception is also reflected in the numbering work of the Eurofighter Group, namely, with these suspected 184 million euros of lubrication money. This clearly gives rise to the task not only of providing ad but also of enabling political information. That is precisely why we decided some time ago on the new Rules of Procedure, after which a committee of inquiry with the support of only one quarter of the Members should be considered to be used, and that is the right thing, because the political Enlightenment, the political search for responsibility and the opportunity for the Republic to recover money is very important. The Task Force has produced that the Republic was deceived and led behind the light that it was deceived by the Eurofighter Group, and therefore the question arises: What happened back then? But it also raises the question: Why did this type decision take place in 2002? Who benefited from it then? Why was the Eurofighter decided at the last moment, although all the documents pointed to other types? Much of this has already been studied, some of which are still in the dark. What has been investigated was, as we know, many scandals. I only remember the €6 million lubrication money and advertising money received by the former FPÖ advertiser Rumpold. These things have already come to light, but clearly you still don't know what happened. Many people believe and believe that when buying a catch hunter, not everything went clean. Only the fact that prior to the type decision, decisive individuals have changed their opinion, which they have defended with hardness for months before, within a week, leads everyone to conclude that there can't be anything wrong, and that's why it's right if this is re-examined and re-rolled. The political responsibility for the purchase is not difficult to investigate, it is quite easy to see. To do this, you only need to look at the history books. Who was in the government in July 2002? – It was black and blue, and they have of course also to answer this basic decision. They have to answer that we still have this cremation, as we must honestly say, because it is expensive and not functional, today; and this cremation also smells like lubrication money – from then to today, for 15 years! The comprehensive information is clearly in front of us. It was not only clear to me and to the Socialist Group that we are in favour of this new regime for investigation committees, but that we will also do everything we can to make a significant contribution to the investigation. In other words, we have fixed our team, we have made sure that there is a minority right, and we will now be working on it, of course, because our Minister for Defence and Defence is in favour of this. In the end, stone of the Enlightenment has set in motion. What's this about? – It is about political responsibility, it is about clarifying the question of how Austria has been led behind the light by the Eurofighter Group, what has happened there. Was one not capable? Were you blind? Or was one made unable and blind because lubrications have flown? And if so, who took it, then who used it for what, or even as recorded or not booked? What is even more important, however, is that we now create the basis for the possibility of reparation, i.e. that the action against the Eurofighter Group will also be remedied, if necessary, by the economic, financial damage suffered by the Republic through this malicious deception over the past 15 years, saying that there is a reparation of assets against the Republic. The even more important goal is that it is quite clear that we do not want this lobbyist structure in our country at all – and not even in procurement processes. It was clear from the first day the lobbyists started to run in this aircraft take-off that at the end of the day some terrible corruptions came out. That is why we need to make sure, with this investigation committee, that all lobbyists in the country know: If the Republic of Austria orders anything, they don't have to believe that they can fill their bags or other bags in the back, because in the future we only want more, very clean procurement processes!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7898	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7919	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is good, control is better! – This is certainly a good and proper access when it comes to political work here in Parliament. This access is all the more credible when you choose it everywhere, not only here at the federal level. I'll come to talk later. We are, in fact, debating the establishment of the second Eurofighter investigation committee within the framework of this urgent question. There is a consensus in the House when it comes to putting full information and transparency at the forefront. But there are already differences. Mr Federal Minister, I was always of the opinion that criminal cases are responsible for justice and that we have political responsibility here in Parliament. That is why I did not fully understand this mixture now and also in the “Kronen Zeitung” when you say: “I support Parliament in clarifying the case of crime.” – I say: They have to support Parliament when it comes to political responsibility, so why, for example, this Treaty in 2007 has been so modified as a disfavor of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz has already made his comparison with Mercedes and Lada. I mean, we stayed here with a type, but it's enough if you have the right to a new vehicle and then we're satisfied with a used car. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Second: Yes, I want money back when it comes to us, but this is a civil dispute that has to be brought to justice. If one does not make it in court, then it is about achieving something by comparison. The Committee of Inquiry, as we must be honest, will have little to do with this. The Examining Committee can make major contributions when it comes to developing clear political responsibility. I also believe that no one can be saved. This is the way in which the request has been made quite clearly from the sequence. We have already worked actively with the Hypo-Research Committee on this new set of rules and have also deliberately nominated the leader of the political groups Gabriele Tamandl, because she has already been a guarantee from our side to the last investigation committee that everything is done to make it clear. The second thing that was so important to us when we made this reform was – and Mr Pilz, you will remember that I was very much in favour of preventing a political tribunal; when politicians are at work, there is always the risk of being stuck in the political hack – that there is a trial judge and that the information is also protected by a procedural lawyer. [[Abg. Arbitrators: How do you know that?]] Overland President Dr. Walter Pilgermair took care of this in the last investigation committee. I have recently been informed by the President of the European Parliament that all the political groups have agreed that we have here again, with the former Vice-President of the Supreme Court, Dr. Ronald Rohrer, a recognized top judge who will stand by us as a procedural judge. He will, together with the procurator, ensure that this right, which the minority has, to set up a committee of inquiry, is also guided by the matter in daily work with appropriate legal supervision and not by political considerations. That's where I've got to say: When it comes to information, of course, it looks completely different in other parts of the Republic. In the Federal Capital of Vienna – the colleague Pilz is right to worry about tax money – there is also much that you need to investigate. The “Salzburger Nachrichten” write a few days ago: „Scandalstadt Wien“, “Million fraud in municipal buildings, promotion abuse in kindergartens: The city of Vienna fights on many fronts with corruption.” [[Abg. Kogler: He always thinks of it!]] Where are the Greens here, do I ask myself to take action to ensure that the minority rights we have at the federal level are finally implemented in Vienna? – No, there is no minority right in Vienna to load an information person. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: They've been there for a long time!]] There is no minority right in Vienna! – No loading information is not a minority right in Vienna. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oja! What you're saying is wrong!]] [[Abg. Brosz: What's in Lower Austria? It's not possible there!]] I already know that as far as the scandals are concerned, you are making nervous now when the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of “Scandalstadt” write. [[Abg. Kogler: Lower Austria!]] I am telling you what I am worried about: the financial situation in our federal capital! [[The speaker holds a graphic – initially with the wrong side up – to the height on which a rising and descending line is displayed.]] . I have to keep this right so that Mr Schieder can see it exactly. Munich is SPD-regulated. In 2005 Vienna had a debt of €1.5 billion, now it is € 5.97 billion; Munich had €3.41 billion in debt, now € 0.7 billion, so € 700 million. [[Abg. Skedders: Wrong again!]] There you can see that this is going in the wrong direction, here in the right direction. [[pointing to the rising line]] [[pointing to the falling line]] Since you're making this nervous, I'm already at the end of Vienna. [[Abg. You're nervous! They're distracting from the subject!]] - No, I'm not distracting from the subject. It is about tax money in both cases, it is a criminal case in both cases. And because that's what you're talking about: 93 The accused are living alone in Vienna – 93 accused! [[Abg. Brosz: Then we talk about Lower Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen, both have to do with tax money, and we are responsible for the tax money, whether it is federal tax money or whether it concerns federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you don't want to understand, I can't help you. I also tell you – and I remain with the tax money – that this comparison, which the Minister of Defence has made, was a bad comparison for the Republic. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Now you're getting nervous! What's that got to do with it?]] That is what the Court of Auditors has found. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] This is where I agree to 100 percent with Parliamentary Pilz: If you are satisfied with used aircraft instead of unused, factory-new aircraft, if you do not use new materials and then make this exchange go there, then if you have a used vehicle, you still have problems, get spare parts that make the whole thing worse, then it's like this Of course, comparison was not one that saved us money. [[Abg. Brace: Buy a Klumpert right now!]] The Court of Auditors has worked out very carefully what has been lost. The abandonment of three Eurofighters: a total of € 222 million; a six-piece drop away with regard to the self-protection system, the infrared search system: €69 million. And that's how I could keep up the list. The Court of Auditors says that only two of the 15 devices are actually to be referred to as unused or factory-new, the others not. On page 52, the Court of Auditors says: ‘For the change of tranche 2 to tranche 1 configuration and for the prevention of retrofitting, there was no reasonable reduction in the price.’ This change alone has caused more than €32 million of damage – I say. This has been done by the Minister of Defence alone. He falsely claimed in the ORF that the financial procuratorship had been there. – That’s not true! It was also not the Ministry of Finance involved, and that we are going to examine this alone approach of the Minister of Defence here, I think it is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I also consider the other subject complexes to be correct, but to these there have already been 50 meetings, more than 100 people have been invited. We'll see what we're gonna find this time. [[Abg. Kogler: 100 kilos of black files!]] – This too is to be examined. Mr Kogler, I am not against it. We are in favour of information and transparency, but in particular we are in favour of looking at the tax money in all areas of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8203	Mrs Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8224	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only the small footnote: In Lower Austria, there has never been an investigation committee, there is not even a minority right to apply for it, but I do not want to discuss it today. [[Call at the SPÖ: There is nothing to investigate!]] Back to the thing: The thing is that we can work together today in the sense of taxpayers, in the sense of the Republic of Austria, and finally clarify, expose and demand back. Mr Doskozil, thank you for your support – not only in advance, but also now, here and today. The answer – and this is what it is about in the Sa-che – was really very comprehensive. I have rarely heard such a correct answer, and I have been sitting in these rows for a long time. This also means that we are at the heart of the fact that we still have aircraft to defend our flight, which actually hit us with the operating costs – because the performance in the National Security Council was really very impressive – in the military budget, in the security budget. I do not mention any details, there is confidentiality, but we know – and it is also known in the public – that the Eurofighter was not only a business when it was purchased, but a purely counter-business matter in favour of those who collected the lubricating money. This was a big business for lobbyists, for those who filled the bags. This was a business at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of the Republic. However, this business was not only miserable and almost criminal – thanks also for the clear presentation of the criminal aspects of the last two requests – but also this business is constantly being charged each year to the budget of the Ministry of State Defense, because the operating costs, the costs of retrofitting, the necessary hardware and software stories explode. We've been negotiating an aircraft type that's really a total mortgage to the future. That's what we want to do. That is why it is also so important for this Committee of Inquiry to meet again that this committee continues where it has been turned off in accordance with a letter or aspect of the Treaty with the Republic of 2007 and that at last these files, which we had black at the time, are black on white, so that they can be read, persecuted so that they can finally be dealt with back in favour of taxpayers. We would then be very, very much spared ourselves, and, Minister, your statements encourage me in this direction. – Thank you also for the willingness to cooperate – as has been said, it is also about cooperation with the judiciary. We have already been able to handle them properly in the last committee and this time we have the opportunity to give up on certain file deliveries, but then to go into the depths later, and with this - and this is important - we have the opportunity to advance the investigation at the level of political responsibility. This can be done without compromising, paralysing or somehow blocking the investigation at the civil or criminal level. We need this parallel action! Mr Minister, you are also a guarantee for this parallel action, so that we can get to work properly here in Parliament, get to work quickly, determined and structured, also thanks to the new Rules of Procedure. Mrs Tamandl, I hope that I will have a good partner in you, with regard to the structured handling of the individual chapters and the targeted information work. I hope that within a year we will have a result that can not only be seen, but that can be felt in the pockets of taxpayers above all, not least at the budget of the defence resort. Thanks also to the staff in the department who have done a great deal for this, which are also present in part here, and especially the Task Force, which, thanks to your support, is now really in cooperation with the Financial Procuratorate to ensure that the Republic has a benefit of ten or more years of green education work. Let me conclude by saying: Thank you, Peter Pilz! 13.1 1 [[Congratulation with the greens.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8258	Mr Bernhard. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8279	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! For a few days now, it has actually been fixed that this investigation committee is coming. That means that for those Members who get into the matter, there is the opportunity to look at the subject in depth for just a few days. There is a relatively clear picture, both as regards history, what my previous speakers have already mentioned, as well as what the interconnectedness – which has already been the subject of media reports – has reached: between federal politics, partly also national politics, the administration, which very often, simply listen to politics, does not make independent decisions, the economy, which is not only benefiting from counter-businesses, but in some cases far too close to political decisions; even sports clubs seem to be involved. [[Abg. Fekter: Not “seemingly”! 3 million has gotten Rapid!]] Thank you, Mrs Fekter, you will certainly still speak. [[Abg. Kogler: These are even greens! Storm didn't get anything! These are blacks!]] It is also true that we have a picture here that individual entrepreneurs have a million-height advisory agreement, and we have to ask ourselves what these advisory contracts were for, where the money was transferred, what was done and where it was distributed. These questions are completely open. I think that a side-by-side exhibition must also be the competence of the then government. I would like to draw out here two small examples that we have already received, which simply show, with what lack of competence also the order process and the contractual negotiations have taken place. For example, in the delivered vehicles there is the topic of painting: The information from high-level EADS employees was that Austria has rejected the proposed standard painting of the aircraft – which is of course also easily recognizable in the sky – and has proposed its own colour. What happened? – The first delivered aircraft had to be hand-painted and recolored because the color was not present. It was then decided that the University of Innsbruck would have to develop its own method of painting and repainting the aircraft in order not to have to be hand-painted and repainted. By the way, the colour difference is hardly recognizable with a free eye. This development process of the University of Innsbruck was of course paid by the Republic. Now you can say that this is a kind of research premium, but it's basically pretty low money. Another example: We ordered the aircraft with the NATO equipment and then had to pay a very expensive downgrading because as non-NATO country we should not have this equipment. The purchase price and downgrading was higher than the cost of new aircraft without the equipment. – These are questions you have to ask yourself, and you have to look at where the competence remains. We will, of course, make a contribution without party glasses, we will name the people we want to have as witnesses here and ask the right questions. We will not point to ÖVP, FPÖ or SPÖ, but we will not take a leaf before the mouth either. I would like to point out another point that is very important from our point of view, namely the question of learning once Parliament has been successful. If the committee of inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria was successful if Parliamentary surveys were successful – there were some from climate change to numerous other topics up to CETA – then there is a common knowledge among parliamentarians that something has to be done. However, there is no legislative matter that is decided; there are working groups that are used in ministries or elsewhere, which then negotiate for years and days without anything happening. In addition to clarifying the political responsibility, the objective must be that we give ourselves stricter guidelines in politics and administration and wherever it is necessary, also in the corporate economy, so that the suspicion of corruption can no longer arise, so that rules of play are clearer. That's what we need! To conclude: We need clear laws and a transparency package here, which has not yet been sufficient. In line with all previous speakers, we also want to return the tax money if possible. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8329	Mr Klubobmann Lugar came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8350	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since the beginning of this affair, we have known that it has been lied that it has been cheated and that every reason has been acted upon. That's not a new thing, we already know that since then. The question is: What's changed? Why is there now an effort to make it clear? The answer is simple: Because the government, especially the SPÖ, is suddenly ready to allow information. This is the situation we find. That is, we knew that a lot was in annoyance, but the Enlightenment was prevented by those who were also involved. In the meantime, there is a political group that is now operating offensively. The only question is why we are now making an investigation committee, if at last the government has gone to lead a criminal apprehension. The prosecutor is assigned to find out who actually took the money. That's exactly what it's all about: It is primarily about who got the money and how the link between the one who got the money and the politicians who made the decision is. That's what we're talking about. If a bowl or even a finance minister suddenly revises the decision one had made in advance and suddenly decides on another model, although that is against every reason, then the question is: Does this have to do with payments to certain persons? – That’s the question to ask. Before we do not know who got the money, and before we can make those things that got the money, we are also very hard to establish this relationship between the politicians who decide, and those who take the money. That is why, from my point of view, it is completely absurd to use this Committee of Inquiry much too early, because first of all we have to look at what the prosecutor finds out in order to make sure that those who have received the money to establish the link to political responsibility. That is why it is a bit strange that Mr Pilz is so presumptuous and all the other political groups according to the motto: If you do not agree, then you are involved in this scandal!, practically blackmailed that they agree instead of letting the prosecutor work once. If you have the results, you can go into political responsibility. We would now also have to explain some other things. I know why Mr Pilz does this: This is a kind of survival struggle within its own group, to which it is due, for which it abuses us, the whole Parliament, as statistics. [[Abg. Kogler: Hey, hey!]] We could have clarified something more important, but there was no discussion of Mr Pilz. Mr Pilz said: No, the Eurofighter must be it at that time, because I need the internal party so! instead of clarifying the things that we should actually clarify. [[Call at the SPÖ:Stronach's crafts?]] The biggest scandal we are experiencing – on the other hand, the Eurofighter has been a special offer for these 2 billion euros, which cost it in total – is this refugee avalanche, which was brought in by the government over us and for which we pay 2 billion euros every year! We can buy Eurofighter every year for the money we spend, because the government is conscious and against every law, against every rule. We still remember that it was as if it had been yesterday when we discussed for months whether a fence should be made or a door with side parts, when a few thousand could not be controlled at the border, because it was not possible. That's what they told us back then. I would like to have a committee of inquiry so that we can ask the then Minister of the Interior, explain to us why we cannot control 5,000 people at the border! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Why can't you do that? Why did one have to leave the people in the country for months, causing problems for which we now pay €2 billion every year or probably more? - That's the question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] There is a political responsibility here! And there is also no prosecutor to investigate this, and also Mr. Kern, who has organized himself here as a tractor. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There's no charge yet, and nothing else. It would have been possible to clarify the political responsibility. – But no, you do the chances of survival in your own party to the Lord Pilz...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8439	Excuse me, Mr Deputies. You will leave me to hold the meeting, and I will say something if necessary. [[towards SPÖ]] That is, I think, my job and not yours! Please, Mr Lugar, continue! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8467	That means we have a lot of information in this country. There is now this committee of inquiry – unfortunately, it has not been discussed beforehand, because Mr Pilz simply passed over everyone. It's supposed to be that way, and we'll be working together, of course. We will, of course, make our contribution to informing, and, of course, I am convinced that because of the means of decommissioning you have created by making the investigation committee at the same time as the prosecutor's investigations, there will not be much out of the way. But be it. We will do our best to provide information on this matter. After that, however, we should finally look after the refugee disaster, for it has been deliberately brought about politically. In any case, we should clarify the political responsibility here! That would be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8499	Mr Lugar, towing is a criminal act. That's why I give you a call for order for the accusation of the tow. I call Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8530	As a result of the contributions made by my previous speaker and the ÖVP Klubobmann, it is certain that it is actually – in the sequence – a star hour or at least an intermediate hour of parliamentarism, and I will explain to you on the basis of some points why this is so. Now, after years of work by individual Members – why the holding is often found in the Green Group – another question is a model: At the BUWOG we see this pattern as well as in the hypo and other banks as well as in the procurement of the Eurofighters – with all the side noises that still follow us in the afterlife. It is a pattern that they are always individual Members, at best some together, but never the whole house. But now we have the first chance – and I believe the founder, applicant and mentor of this whole matter, Mr Pilz, has explained – that we can take a long course as a whole Parliament, in the interests of the Republic. This also allows us to examine the other side more closely and not to stand in the way of each other. I just want to remind you of other committee of inquiry. Now it's a completely new situation. Every investigation is different, but not so much because the scandal patterns are others, but because it is a question of how parliamentarians stand up and whether they work against each other – and not there or there. This chance exists. That's what I wanted to hold on to, because that's really new. But we will also be able to filter out some star-hour elements. I am now concerned with making a contribution to find out – you can then read it again in the Minutes, it is partly a memorial work – which helps us to recover money – and it is not to be forgotten – and what helps us to reveal any compliments in the Austrian administration, but perhaps up to members of the government, which is primarily the task – because the company alone could not anyway investigate it – and so it will be imposed, I am very confident. Without wishing to make pre-condemnifications: The situation of the facts is and has always been distressing – I am going to explain it to you. That's the dramatic, and that's why it's – let me express it – a certain satisfaction, a personal little star hour, that it's here again. I'll tell you what traces have always been there. The complicity will certainly become a relevant topic. The allegations of influence up to lubricating payments were already there before the procurement work had properly begun – all this has to be remembered, which will also be useful for the setting up of committee work –: Lubricating in procurement and also in the so-called counter-businesses. These had to stand for everything possible, and as was shown in the post-mortem, they are the best way for the lubricating canals. This was already included in the forecast. We will also briefly sharpen our memory. Very important and at the end – in 10 minutes no longer going on – a few more words on the role of justice. We have so far treated them with a bit of grace, we want to work with them as well. However, it is already striking – and I come back to the point of departure and now I want to roll everything together – that in all these cases – BUWOG, Hypo, Eurofighter – justice is for the longest time inactive, not active and, at least, not an ally the reconnaissance was and that always the work of individuals from outside, whether it be Members – I have already mentioned it – also the colleague Gabriela Moser and her work on the subject of BUWOG – or others, that only their years of work against major resistance to different parts of the Republic has led to something being done. And if not some in this House had enforced the establishment of the corruption prosecutor's office, as we now call it shortened, many things might not have been clarified in the same form until today, for there has finally been something going on. Overall – and I switch now, so to speak, between happy messages and resumés and further accusations – it is indeed a good thing. When you look at the instruments of the investigation we were still under way in the 1990s and how it happened, you have to say that there has been a lot of success. This is certainly also due to the tenacity of the National Council in general or to the individual people here – only the establishment of the corruption prosecutor's office. Something's gone on. It is certainly also a success that the committees can no longer be turned off. This has already been discussed here and now also applies to this one. On this occasion I start with the flashback: The turning off of the Eurofighter Committee at that time is more than a scandal for itself. – By the way, this is being examined with what I find very pious. This has been denied to us at the Hypo Committee. – We remember: In a parallel command action, the ÖVP, which did not want both committees, Eurofighters and banks, was successful in 2006/2007 – the latter developed in May/June, when the turnoff was prepared, to the hypo or the Raiffeisen Committee – this was more or less uno actu under a Klubobmann bowl, which then drew the strings on the parliamentary side. I hope – and this is the advantage that this has been done with a subject of investigation – that we will be able to clarify these questions more precisely, because in the Hypo Committee the then Klubobmann and still ex-Kanzler Schüssel have fled, so to speak, under the guidance of many Members. They will not succeed this time, for now it is in the investigation order. It no longer allows time to recapitulate everything, because it leads to quite other questions besides that we want to reorganize our money. After all – a small deposit – it is an amount of 1 billion € upwards, open up, depending on how you put on the damage amount and what can really be recovered. I would remind you that the investigations in other committees of inquiry have also contributed to the recovery of money. We should all report this – as it is so beautiful – because the establishment of the committee of inquiry is not always understood by everyone and everyone. It is not even the main purpose of research committees, but when it comes to billions, it is a very, very useful side effect, as I mean, which is also being sought. I am confident that there will be quite much success, also thanks to the cooperation of the Federal Government or a substantial part of the Federal Government, which is also new and enjoyable. – Respect, Minister of State! I'll join my colleague Pilz. Now the feed-ins from the past: What can we say about this alleged complicity? It starts in 2001 – you have to imagine that! – then July 2002: Type decision, July 2003: Contract signing. Already before the Type decision has compacted the signs that the beams are pushed. Yes, we were quite alone with these findings. But you will have to look at this when it comes to who acted like it. It was not even that the flu decision that was imposed would have been so clean. Even there we had the evidence that flus had ensnared into the system and had agreed to the call for tender. The call for tender had been made for grips. That was the funny one. They would also have won it – even not clean – but then it became Eurofighter overnight. I recall a 33-member evaluation committee that did not make it difficult to identify the flu as the first-ever woman. But that was then thrown over. What do we need 33 federal army members if everything is anyway thrown around because it was politically different? – Just as it was, it has already been mentioned! These procedures are, in fact, a prerequisite and accompaniment in this committee of inquiry, because, once again, certain people with the interests to be explored have turned the decision around. If one remembers that Eurofighter could be better per forma only because of a laterally enchanted financing variant in order to cover the whole thing somehow: At the time, one has seen – I am now in 2002 – that was tricked here, as much as possible. You didn't care about that at the time, even though it was already recognizable and obvious, because not only me and Peter Pilz have these files been played, but also others. Nevertheless, you have passed it against the appropriate warnings. Of course, the biggest reproach was this counter-business. We remember: Scheibner was always opposed to counter-businesses – right, just like you now, because such a thing is only looting. If something really happens, it's taken into account before. Generally, counter-actions that are claimed to be useful never take place. You can't prove that. What they are always good for, however, is to solve what was the good old black suitcase forty years ago, because the counter-businesses are of course a wonderful mechanism to better set up lubricating money networks. When someone comes to it, they say, Well, there was something established to lead counter-businesses. It is also in this case, but only a few counter-businesses have been taught, because I do not see them to this day. This would be a point of our own, but we can save it, because in reality the Vector-Aerospace thing was over. That's where the committee was turned off. That's why we're continuing. That's where we've seen how it goes. This is the big box of the dizziness that can be found here. In this way, it is added that several political groups recognize where to proceed. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] I would just not forget what was then, because this would make the question clear very quickly and make it clear that it was certainly lubricated, because things are otherwise unexplainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8651	Mr Pendl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8672	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Today, a very positive approach is inflamed several times in the various groups. Let me make a few remarks on this: It was already this house, and it's already a paradigm change if you want to. Mr Lugar is not here now; I can recall his remarks in the negotiations on this new Rules of Procedure. [[Call to the Greens: He was against it!]] - That's right! All negotiators still remember. At the time, we, the negotiators, have known what this is for a changeover. There's nothing to do with that. I already know why a minority committee is now being set up with a must – because it could have been different. We could have saved all of this, also for reasons of time, but at the time we wanted to do so, so set up and finally decided so – therefore, no discussion on it. There is also a new quality, however, as a minister deals with the test result of a task force. I only say it for those who were not there – for I am not sitting there alone –: The first thing before he informed the public was that he invited the local speakers and said – in the presence of the tops of the task force – that: Gentlemen, that was presented to me – the Lords should tell you this themselves – and there is only one way to do this, namely the advertisement. - That's it. Everyone who thinks into the situation knows: If something like this is presented to you as a responsible official, you have nothing else left, in the interests of Austrians, in the interest of taxpayers and taxpayers. I'm sorry, but the This is a completely new quality: Even before the public knew it, we were invited, went – we didn't know what was going on – and got the information. The whole process is actually a whole new one in the meantime. Of course: If the aircraft had not been purchased at the time, there would not have been the whole situation in 2007; that is all going on. But now we have the opportunity to do so with these contents and questions – I do not want to put the word in the mouth at all right now, I say it this way: the Austrian Parliament can set another milestone in the interests of Austrian taxpayers. One thing we all know: The prosecutors will carry out all the surveys with the criminal police. – After all, that is not our task. But we must distinguish: What are the criminal and civil points, and what are ours? We are called on and used to clarify the political processes as far as possible and as best as possible in the interests of this House. I think the more open, the better. – I am now quoting Minister Doskozil, who said from the outset that he is trying to hide the party perspective. – This may be feasible for one person or another because he has learned it, but if we now think in the cross-section, it will be very difficult. As a SPÖ group leader, I still invite that we really try. This new procedure has never existed, not just because we have a new law. I think we should strengthen this path and simply end it positively. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pillow.]] It was also very happy to see Klubobmann Strache as the first one today, I think, mentioned – I don't know anymore, because several have said that – that in the National Security Council all the political groups – we have taken our own decision on it and have also been excluded from secrecy and so on – have put behind the ministers and say: We're trying to figure this out. In this discussion, I only ask for one thing – today it is only briefly flickered, but I hope that we will continue to do so in the Committee's work –: Let us try not to harm the Austrian federal army, which we have breathed in the last few months and took courage not to do any harm through misdirected discussions. I believe that the soldiers in general do excellent work; we should always thank them and strengthen their backs. It is also in the interest of the Ministry of Defence's budget, because it is also to be assessed – and it has also been reported openly, fairly and transparently that this is still to be decided by the relevant experts in the first half of the year – as we are dealing with the issue of airspace surveillance in the future. What can you afford? What can it cost? What makes technical sense? What makes sense to the military, to the soldiers? I believe that when we deal with this matter, we have not only helped the matter to make a real big breakthrough, but also this House on its way to a self-confident Parliament and finally also to the Austrian federal army and justice. I would like to invite you to this work!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8714	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8735	Mr President. High house! Oscar Wilde once said: “The result of some in-depth investigation is established – before it is hired.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what must not happen to us in this committee of inquiry in the information work that we as parliamentarians have to do in the exercise of our political responsibility. We have today brought in the desire to set up a committee of inquiry – one of the sharpest control mechanisms at all in Austria, and we in the House will do everything we can to help to clarify the relevant issues relating to Eurofighter. Ladies and gentlemen, our task is political responsibility. The criminal prosecution, the criminal investigation, the criminal conduct – all these things will be judged by the prosecutors and criminal courts. In three European Member States, namely Italy, Germany and especially Austria, criminal proceedings against Airbus, Eurofighter and the network run all around, companies and offshore accounts. The prosecutors and prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office in Vienna and the investigating officials in the Federal Criminal Office are in the middle of these investigations. Especially thanks to them is the fact that we have additional basic material for our investigation work. Some people here in the high house can't go fast enough. I think we also need to keep getting these results involved in our work and to think carefully about when we request relevant files in which areas. Not to be forgotten: As a lawyer and as a member of the Committee on Justice, it is important to me to: that, in the sense of the Austrian taxpayers, cooperation with the investigative authorities and, in particular, with the public prosecutors is excellent, also in the sense of those responsible, whether political or criminal, of courts. It is about a lot of tax money, a high sum that we can't estimate at all, and that's why complete information is announced. In the last investigative committee – the first after the new Rules of Procedure – we have gained the experience that cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the relevant prosecutors has worked very well. Our good basis for talking was the basis for the fact that there was hardly any leaks of files in this delicate investigation work. I assume that all colleagues in this new committee of inquiry will comply with the confidentiality obligations and that there will be no misunderstandings. Anyone who knows me knows that I give high priority to political work. I do not believe that there is a political change of currency or a substantial accusation; I believe that this is of great relevance not only to me but to all of us who work in this committee of inquiry. Nurture and material information work, meticulous work and the perception of our political responsibility are announced. I think we can work on a new political culture, on a new one in the best sense of the Enlightenment for our country. As a neutral state, we are committed to comprehensive national defence and, of course, also to the protection of the Austrian airspace. For me and all of us in the ÖVP, the high importance of the Austrian federal army is out of question. A functioning federal army is not to be imagined in times of increasing crisis, only 1,500 kilometres away a war is being waged. It must be operational, and this clearly includes the functioning surveillance of the airspace. We continue to make a clear commitment to this. Everything else is not targeting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me conclude by stressing the following: I and the ÖVP will work for the best information work in the Committee of Inquiry, but clearly at the objective level, without polemics and without dirt-bubble campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8802	Next, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8824	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A clear commitment to the Austrian Federal Army and to efficient airspace surveillance is also received; this is probably beyond doubt. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Previously, Mr Lugar meant to clarify many other things in a committee of inquiry, such as what he called a refugee crisis. Actually, I want to call it what it is: It is an uncontrolled, illegal mass immigration that has taken place, and there is no need for a parliamentary investigation committee to do so. The Austrians have already taken a very clear view of their political responsibility; in fact, it only needs new elections and no investigation committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nor do I feel as a political abuse victim of Peter Pilz, because the facts for an investigation committee, for a second Eurofighter committee, almost in the second passage, are clearly on the table. There are news: There is the criminal apologies, the contents of which we were allowed to know in confidence. There are other subjects which Mr Pilz has made available to us on demand. It's like skiing: There are also disciplines in which the Austrians are very good, and a Marcel Hirscher does not complain that there is a first and a second passage. Now, with this Eurofighter committee, we also have the chance to make a second way through so that we can win a parliamentary gold medal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why? – In 2002, in August, an event occurred in Austria, which has actually made all of us, and especially us, the Freeman in Lower Austria, very affected: Only one month after this type decision and the related costs, this century flood disaster occurred in much of Austria, especially in Lower Austria, when many parts of FPÖ said: Well, especially respect for the purchase of expensive aircraft, but wouldn't the money be better in the reconstruction and support of families that have lost the basement or the whole house and in the construction of flood protection buildings? From this content there was also a discussion which – as HC Strache has already mentioned – drew until Knittelfeld was drawn, because one thought, perhaps the priorities are set differently. All of this will be possible to investigate, and it will be dealt with mercilessly. As a liberal, I'm not afraid of any bodies in any basement. Anyone who has been corrupt must be disturbed in front of the curtain and subject to his righteous punishment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, what is particularly new to me in this committee – and we had no information on it yet; now there are concrete things to do – is this comparative conclusion of 2007. The Court of Auditors - it has already been quoted - has not issued a particularly good judgment, and it is already strange that the Federal Minister has said: After months of testing through the task force, this display is now made. – That was not a month-long test, but it was a year-long test. The first Task Force was founded in January 2007 and before this Task Force came to a conclusion, the Minister of Defence has already begun comparative negotiations. [[Abg. Strache: You had the command to sleep!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] The aim was to get out of the Treaty completely. And then there were profound legal opinions in 2007: Hold, now we have it, we can get out of the contract! But what's the Minister of Defence doing? – A bad comparison to which he says that certain withdrawal clauses from the old Treaty are actually not needed at all. And we do not believe that this was just a lonely decision of Mr. Darabos without any deception or anything else. Coming to the end: I am particularly proud as a parliamentarian – and I would like to know this completely from the former SPÖ and ÖVP Members: If an institution of the Republic of Austria, namely an institution of administration – and this is a Federal Minister, in short; In a point 8 of an incidental agreement – with a private company – Eurofighter Jachtflugzeug GmbH – says that it is assumed that the Eurofighter Investigation Committee will end its work at the end of June 2007 when an administrative body and a private company can make up what is happening here in Parliament and not happen, then I am a Parliamentary fire on the roof. I'd like to have solved this perfectly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who brought the message to the individual political groups: Dear friends, it's over now!Unknown term type: "%s".? The fact is that: ==References== ==References====External links== July is the History Investigation Committee – that is exactly what a high administrative body of the Republic has done with a private company. I am interested in the fact that those who delivered the messages in the individual clubs went to the individual members of the political groups in the committee of inquiry. Who said: Guys, it's summer, we're gonna stop now!?, or what was the message behind that? And who put this silky cord on the table? This is something I would like to deeply reject and to see through when such an approach is taken to parliamentarianism and parliamentary practices. We call for complete information, and I am pleased that everyone now agrees to something where there is no agreement because a minority request has been made. This is the case with SPÖ and ÖVP today: “Happy is the one who forgets, which cannot be changed.” Well, since it's on the table, all of them are for it all at once. It just doesn't use anything, because we've pulled it through without you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8909	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8931	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, there has already been a lot of talk about this necessary second passage, as Mr Rosenkranz has just referred to him, about the history of how the whole has developed, and I think it is extremely necessary that it be clarified, especially since the first Eurofighter investigation committee has been turned off. What caused the operation of the Eurofighters at costs was still far too little lighting. The “Kronen Zeitung”, which was always very well informed by informants on the part of the army, always spoke of a gold island in connection with the Eurofighter operation and its operation, because it was constantly collected. This started with an anonymous warehouse in Bavaria – a ghost warehouse – for which €2.5 million of rent was paid for four years – €10 million of rent for a warehouse that you no longer need. Because it's noticed, you don't need it anymore, but as I said, There's been huge payments. We have already heard of the 14 recipients on an Internet list, starting from the sports club to companies in Hong Kong from very famous people where they have already been identified. You can see that the money wasn't saved. And the terrible thing about it is: That's tax money! I think that in the case of taxpayers' money, it is a matter of particular care. Of course, the damage must be repaid in full. I do not think there should be any political tribunal, as Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has already said. However, as he came to the apartments in Vienna via the Eurofighter Committee, he was already a colorful arch. Actually, I need to talk about palm oil now, but I'm staying at the Eurofighter committee. Why palm oil? - Because it apparently runs like lubrication. That's all as smooth as it went. When I look at myself: Political advice has also cost a lot of money. The policy advice was obviously also important. The heads of state were visited: the head of the state of Upper Austria, Mr. Pühringer, Salzburg's head of state, Schausberger, the head of the state of Vorarlberg, Sausgruber. This seems to have had something to do with the flight routes so that you could land there. In any case, they were advised, and such a national conference cost €75 000. In total, it was €225 000, and the permanent political advice cost €355,000 – that is, it was already properly accessed and paid accordingly. But I would like to come to these parts. [[The speaker places a table entitled “Replacement Parts” on the speaker’s desk, on which five rings are depicted.]] I wrote on it: Spare parts. You have to explain that a little. It's not a wedding ring. This is a very valuable ring. [[Abg. Strache: “A ring to slave for it! ”]] [[Abg. Rosary: Is a wedding ring worth nothing?- Oh, my God!]] You can see this ring in the middle that I bought yesterday without lobbyists and without a consultant at the company Ökoprofi in Wels – that is sensational! [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's a wave seal ring. Its color goes a little bit into gold, which should express a little its value. It has cost €82 000 for the Eurofighters – €82 000! It was intervened, and see: only more than 800 €. Do you know what this original costs? I can prove it with the invoice: 10,80 €. So you should have intervened again. And now we're coming to these side panes. I got 100 pieces of that. 100 pieces of such side panes – sensational, they were bought without advice and without lobbyist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – I have her in five patterns, Mrs Colleague! I'll need you in the bill. I put on five patterns. That was sensational, too. The 110 pieces have cost 123 000 € for the Eurofighters. My 100 pieces have cost 5.80 €. But after an intervention you have reduced the bill to 49,28 € – also a little expensive, but still considerably cheaper again. So it's obvious how you've needed it. You just wrote in what the calculator has done to get as much room as possible. The biggest piggy is that this was then included in the purchase price – before at the lobbyist money and later in the running operation. It's over 500 million €. More than €500 million in taxpayers have been used, Minister, to buy these scrap flyers that have been speculated. [[Abg. Strache: That's why they were scrap because they were speckled!]] If we participate in a flight competition, we need to borrow the Eurofighters, because we can't join our own, they don't even have night vision devices. They are only intended for the day and primarily for watching and not for flying. So such a milking machine could not be sold to the dumbest farmer in the back mountain valley, because he says it must at least milk cows. [[Abg. Strache: Maybe they are equipped with a camera!]] And if I look at what happened then this committee is urgently needed. It is, of course, totally non-political and objective, but these processes must be clarified without delay. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and Greens.]] The damage must be paid. Every euro of tax money that has been paid for this must return to the taxpayers in our state. And then – I am convinced – the citizens also have more confidence in this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9031	The next item is Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9053	Mr President. High house! In this debate, which in itself is a urgent question to the Minister of Defence, we are experiencing the way in which committees of inquiry are taking place. I believe, however, that we as Parla-mentarier must be able to take this very seriously. [[Abg. Lugar: What has been wrong so far?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So far no one has laughed!]] It is the task of all of us, in the upcoming Eurofighter Investigation Committee, to unravel an affair that has occupied this Republic for more than 15 years. Mr Kogler referred to the motion for a resolution, Mr Strache suggested: The Austrians have the right and the claim that political decisions, which are still associated with considerable financial effort, cannot even give the impression of a discussion that there could have been political influence or even lubrication money in play. That is why I would like to remind you again: The trigger for us to enter this new phase of the investigation was the disclosure of the results of the task force of the Minister of Defence, who examined the acribically, which started the advertisement and which now also gives us the opportunity to examine consistently on the basis of the new findings in this Committee of Inquiry. It is clear that there will always be political discussions. It goes from the reference discs, which are also a serious issue, to the deviations of Mr Lopatka on municipal policy in Vienna. [[Abg. Lopatka: No zigzag!]] But we Social Democrats will try to get everyone into the boat, Mr Lopatka! [[Abg. Kogler: (in the direction of Abg. Lopatka) Then we'll talk about local politics in Hartberg.]] You can go back to your party president Mitterlehner, who said in full conviction in the 2012 “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” that the purchase of a interception hunter was not all clean, and because of the fact of the type decision and the fact that decisive persons changed their opinion overnight, he assumes that it has not been done with right things. This means that the discussion has gone wrong from the beginning. [[Abg. Lugar: Explain this with the side panes!]] However, I do not need any files because I can still remember very well, as Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said: [[Abg. Lugar: That was your minister! Explain this with the side panes!]] This will be the best aircraft ever, and they will not cost taxpayers because they are financed by an economic platform. I thought of myself at the time: That's a great political decision! We know from the first committee of inquiry and we will have to examine further because of the new findings and the possibilities now available to us through the results of the Task Force and the advertisement. But it is important for us – in addition to the clarification and the possible recovery that the entire financial damage will be remedied as far as possible – that: How's it going? Since I would like to return to Mr Minister's question, which has clearly and clearly announced that there will probably be a clear decision by the Ministry before the beginning of the investigation committee, that future arms acquisitions must be transparent, without political influence, without the participation of lobbyists, that contracts will fall if only the slightest suspicion arises of corruption, and that we can tell the Austrians: We have drawn from the political dilemma of the Eurofighter our lessons for the future! That is what we stand for, and for that we will also work intensively in the Committee on Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9165	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9186	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard a lot of criminal machinations, of deception. [[Abg. Kogler:... History!]] We have heard of the reconnaissance, the reconnaissance of the procurement process. We have heard what would have been possible in 2007, but the comparison had not actually brought any improvement, but rather a deterioration. [[Abg. Fekter: Not more! Sure!]] If we had waited for the delays in delivery, which have definitely occurred, we could probably even have resigned from the contract. That is to say, we have new aspects, and we also have a new Rules of Procedure. This investigation committee will, of course, have a different quality and dimension from its current investigation committees, including the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, and we know this from the Hypo-Research Committee. I can only say to my group: We are fully aware that information must be very objective and transparent. I hope that the opposition is aware that, due to the new Rules of Procedure and the possibility of using a minority to set up an investigation committee, it also bears a responsibility – and I am surprised, Mr Lugar, that you have not said so today – that there is no exaggeration of people who are likely to say the same or to a high degree of probability. What do I mean by that? – We must not resist in this committee of inquiry. I've already heard today, you can handle this briefly and tightly – well, of course! My group is in favour of this, and my group has also agreed to it in the last committee of inquiry. We will clarify the facts, we will demand transparency, we will clarify everything. We will also clarify the comparison, not a question, because here there is the Court of Auditors' report and also the follow-up review, which one can see very well, what possibilities there would have been, but which in fact have not been used. What is certainly not going to happen in this committee of inquiry – many have said it, but that is, of course, such a wishful thinking, where one can say, of course, we want to do so – is that the taxpayer and the taxpayer will return the money. Only the committee of inquiry will fail to do so. [[Abg. Kogler: No, but the Committee can support it!]] This will bring justice to justice. I personally believe that the work of justice is not that bad in parallel with the Committee of Inquiry, especially now with the new Rules of Procedure, because we have different mechanisms. The last investigation committee on the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank, for example, had the consultation mechanism, and the Minister of Justice has asked us to make a different kind of consultation, or to commit itself as a more gentle or appropriate consultative committee, in the case of various persons involved in the proceedings, or because it may hinder justice. [[Abg. Lugar: What's good about that now?]] That was a very good solution, Mr Lugar, in the last committees of inquiry! Let's remember: It was probably not only in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee 1, in which I was not sitting, because I was already sitting in many other investigation committees under the previous Rules of Procedure, and what was there? – There someone sat grinning and said: I quit. What was in the Hypo-Research Committee? – We wanted to know exactly the reason of each person’s information, and there were no more package cancellations. In other words, I believe that there will be many other possibilities with the new Rules of Procedure. Or: The question of blackout has already fallen. The blacks are, please, since the Hypo-Alpe-Adria investigation committee has been clarified! The Constitutional Court has been called upon, a decision has been taken, and there will be no more blacks. No minister needs to say today: I'm going to transmit everything unblackened. – That’s nice, that’s good, and that’s important, but there are no blacks of things that have to do with the subject matter of investigation. That's what we know, that means, we've got some experience here. In this sense, I believe that we are doing it – as we did in the last committee of inquiry – that on the one hand, we are well prepared that we can make a good timetable, a good deal of the committee of inquiry, that we are not resisting – for we have now also experienced – and that we can clarify everything transparently. Finally, I would like to say: I think it is good, Minister of Defence, to consider the future of airspace surveillance and to have rules or rules for procurement, because it is all about what comes after a committee of inquiry. We have always said that a committee of inquiry also serves to prevent certain operations from happening. If new rules are introduced for how procurement operations will be carried out in the future, this will protect political decision-makers in the future, but it will of course also protect the senior officials of the Federal Army and the soldiers responsible for them. In this sense: good cooperation, full clarification and transparency from our group!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9265	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9287	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The display of the Federal Ministry against Eurofighter/Airbus with the new aspects that had already come to a deception of the Republic, has put on the table entirely new facts, new facts that have moved us liberals to initiate this investigation committee, together with the Greens. These new inconsistencies, which have appeared, not only interest the FPÖ in its entirety, but also interest me as then members of the government party. These decisions, which were taken at the time, appear in a completely new light. However, ladies and gentlemen, with this committee of inquiry, which we are setting up, we must not make a mistake: We have to be careful – and I am not saying this in detail now, but the term has been mentioned in the press – that we are not initiating a political theatre. We will stick to continuing where the Committee of Inquiry had to stop in 2007, and we will not repeat things that are clear and which have already been questioned, but we will bring in new aspects to lead to the clarification of all matters. We will also clearly distinguish between our political task to clarify political responsibility here and the criminalist task. That is why I do not have this fear, which you, Mr Lugar, have, that the statements give rise to a massive suffrage, because the paths are completely different. We are studying political responsibility, and the public prosecutors in Vienna and Munich – we know that from statements by relevant officials – are already very far in terms of the investigation of money flows, which are now known and are being persecuted within the framework of this system vector. I believe that in the Committee of Inquiry we will clearly distinguish between the criminalist possibilities that are applied there and which are already far-reaching, and our task here to clarify the political responsibilities. Mr Weninger suggested: We all remember the chain of arguments of the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who could indeed represent the purchase of these Eurofighters as a private business, which also made clear to the public at that time that, in the context of these counter-businesses and of all that is related to them, the Republic will not grow up in procurement or in the exercise of this aircraft. I also remember painfully that the ÖVP with this political line actually won the National Council elections in 2002! That surprised me at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! We are grateful for the fact that Mr Doskozil has also indicated or stated that he will endeavour to ensure the airspace surveillance of the Republic of Austria – despite all the discussions we are in today – and that he has also made it clear that he will now introduce a transparent awarding system in the Austrian federal army. I think this is particularly important, because in the last few years, I would say that 30, 40 years did not succeed in bringing even some procurement within the framework of the Austrian federal army without a scandal over the stage. I would therefore also like to encourage you to continue your work in this context and then also to present the findings of these working groups which you have used to the public, including within the framework of the National Defence Committee, and then to discuss them there. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have agreed to the establishment of this committee of inquiry, because we are in favour of fully informing all these processes. Our cooperation will be there.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9335	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9356	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Now I have to contradict my colleague Bösch, because somewhere the cat bites in the tail, because: Your clubman Heinz-Christian Strache explained earlier that this investigation committee must come out of the reason that criminal matters affecting the former Minister of Defense Darabos are otherwise delayed, and that would be a criminal history, but you tell me now, we have to examine the political responsibility, and with the criminal law has nothing to do with it. So it's a bit contrary to that. However, I would like to focus on why the Committee of Inquiry should come. I think he's right, but I don't think it's the perfect time. I will now briefly explain why, but perhaps also why, from the point of view of the FPÖ, or from the point of view of the Green Pilz, it must be right now; for the other greens as a whole, I think, would not be so for the present time, but fungus is for that. I'm going to roll that up a little, 'cause I've been thinking about it. As far as the investigation of crimes is concerned, as a learned police officer, I know that this is the police's job, that the prosecutor's office is involved and that in the final effect the courts judge debt or innocence. I think that's the right way. I believe that this way has been initiated by the Federal Minister of Justice with the criminal charges, which we have supported and have also informed the Security Council of an all-party request that we are very much in agreement with this procedure. What this Committee of Inquiry should not bring is a sharper fungus, which acts as a political sharpener and here judges for itself, as we have seen with Mr Pilz in other areas. That's exactly why – and I don't understand that from the liberals – they are now offering this stage to Mr Pilz. I'm going to come back to what might be the thought of the liberals. What is this really about? – Nearly €184 million in damage to the Eurofighters, then a 2-billion-€ business, created by lubricating money, bribery and various other things that have been listed here. I don't want to repeat that in detail now. Then it's about... – Yes, I was just about to go in on it, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Fekter: Yes, and it's about Rapid, for example!]] You just have to let me talk to you, then we'll come to it. It is further about dubious contract amendments by the former Minister of Defence Darabos, who would have taken out clauses from which the Republic could have benefited, and the company Eurofighter or EADS might not have been so good at this. Then it is also about the fact that a certain former defense minister Darabos was in the time of the Eurofighter purchase and then on the board of the Rapid football club and that this football club Rapid was sponsored by EADS. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] It is only to be forgotten that we are approaching the advertising measures so that they don't look that way. We have to ask ourselves what the then Defence Minister Darabos, who, in my opinion, has played a very dubious role here – I can only say that politically now, because that will be found out by the courts – and not for the benefit of the Republic of Austria and thus the taxpayer, but for the benefit of EADS and whoever was involved in these transactions. That'll be safe to investigate. This is then the political decision or first the criminal decision. But there are, as has been said, the courts responsible. So who really benefits from this committee of inquiry? – The taxpayer certainly does not, because it now has to cover some €5 million of tax money for the costs of the committee of inquiry so that this committee of inquiry can function accordingly. These are the experience of previous committees of inquiry. For me, therefore, the first thing I want to do is to benefit the Green-Member Pilz, who wants to choose the internal power struggle for himself. [[Abg. Auer: Mandate Enforcement Investigation Committee!]] - Well, it's fact: Pilz benefits here, and it strengthens its position with the Greens or with certain Greens, and there it has the opportunity to secure a safe place again on the next National Council list, which may already come through this Committee of Inquiry. That is the idea of Mr Pilz at the expense of taxpayers: 5 million! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Second: The FPÖ also benefits somewhere, or perhaps not – this is the big question – because, of course, the FPÖ has an unimportant interest in new elections due to the good results of the survey. That means, of course, that it could become the first, according to current survey results. I just hope that you didn't make the bill without the host, because the shot can also go back, because the citizen doesn't want to pay any preferred new elections, which he then has to pay again. The third profiter of this Committee of Inquiry – which is why one has been presented here – is the Federal Government. Mr Lugar has already said this correctly: It has very big problems at the moment and naturally wants to distract from these problems – and how can I do this better than by mediating anything! We've had that many times, you only have to look into history. There is always that the government is trying to cast glare grenades – and this is a glare, I tell you quite openly! We have asked about it and have learned that out of ten Austrians, seven are not interested in the fact that there is a lot of Eurofighters' tax money here again. - That's the one point. Then I would like to say why the government is doing this. We only have to track this in the media: internal failure, disputes, and then we have the problem with the refugee crisis – that Mr Lugar has rightly mentioned – which is at least €2 billion in the year. Then who are the profiters of this refugee crisis? – You should really examine that. That would be a topic for a good investigation, Mr. Federal Minister! This is about the fact that NGOs naturally depend on it, and here there are dubious flows of money and nods that are difficult to investigate and difficult to understand. I think we should put it here once, because for the taxpayer we would not put light on the light for 184 million whom he has been deceived, but here we are talking about billions, ladies and gentlemen. You should see that here before. I would also like to address the following – if I can still read my paper now –: the high damage to taxpayers in this area. [[Abg. Brosz: Is not a mistake, if not!]] I think it's necessary for this to be handled once. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Brosz, I know that the Greens do not like to hear this because they are precisely leading the NGOs or sitting in these NGOs, which are filled with bags by the so-called asylum crisis at the expense of taxpayers who are then allowed to pay. This Committee of Inquiry should also throw glare grenades again, because the greens in the surveys are not good either. This is a matter of your policy. [[Abg. Brosz: But we're still in the plus field!]] After all, what is it really about? – It’s about having new elections in the worst case. And the token for that is then allowed to pay the taxpayer again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] – I’m going to be You remind me that if we stand here again in a few months, because there is a request for new elections due to the Committee of Inquiry. Then I will draw your attention to where the government parties, the Greens and the FPÖ have made mistakes. And afterwards we will talk about it again, and the taxpayer or voters will then decide. I think he'll make the right decision and vote accordingly for the Stronach team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9482	Mr Hagen, I know that the term ‘shrink judge’ is very much used and often in the language of dealing, but it was not only responsible for the death penalty, but also for forcing confessions by torture. I would ask you to distance yourself from its use here in the House in the future. [[Abg. Hagen: Okay!]] Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9514	Mr President. Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear Colleagues! Since the investigation of the Eurofighter purchase is again at the centre of the media coverage, I have often been confronted with the question of whether a new investigation committee on this causa would be needed at all. There was a clear answer from me to this question – and will always be – that is, a clear yes, because I am firmly convinced that it is urgently necessary to draw a conclusion among the discussions that have been taking place for more than 15 years on possible corruption in connection with the post-capitulation of the catch-up hunters. To this end, it is necessary to examine every detail of the procurement process, from the type decision under black-blue at the time, to the settlement of counter-actions, to the comparative negotiation, to investigate without any difficulty and to show any possible abuses in a carefree way. In particular, in the light of the criminal charges now imposed by the Republic for fraud against the Eurofighter Airbus, one thing is clear to me: that political responsibility in this context also needs comprehensive clarification. In this context, I would also like to thank you, Mr Minister of Defence, for the assured undivided support of the Committee of Inquiry, because only if we take a joint lead here will it be possible to make a common leap forward. As the Task Force's report published a few weeks ago in the Ministry of Defence shows, with a previous damage sum of €1.1 billion, it is quite clear that we still have huge room for improvements here to express it cautiously. In the Task Force paper, for example, the speech of “argic and fraudulent fraud” on the part of Eurofighter and Airbus has been “damaged the Republic of Austria” since 2002. In the case of “right-wing behavior” Austria would not have bought Eurofighters but the cheaper grips of Saab, the Taskforce claims. The investigation would also have given clear evidence that a ‘source of unreasonable behaviour to the Republic’ was to be found in the counter-measures. And there we are not only talking about the scraped milling machine that was left to the German army and which finds its precipitation in the arrangement of counter-businesses with €810 000. I would like to compare these findings of the Task Force with the statement made by Wolfgang Schüssel in May 2007 – it was an interview with the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – which said that in this purchase “the best aircraft were selected at a reasonable price and with the best counter-businesses”. – And that’s what he meant in connection with the scraped milling machine, which finds its precipitation in the arrangement of counter-businesses with €810 000! In summary, the desire to set up a committee of inquiry, which has now been put in place at this meeting, is more than justifiable and full-fledged. This is why it will be up to us Members here in the Council of Ministers. their home is to carry out the Parliament's most immediate task of controlling government and administrative action, revealing abuses and opening the way for reforms that will have to prevent such serious misdemeanors from taking place in the future. It could be so easy to make reasonable decisions. Let us take an example of a new car purchase, how it is done a thousand times a month and again! All possible examples, from Lada to VW beetles, have already been tried. But what is it all about? – First, as a buyer/as a buyer, I need to understand what requirements I place on a vehicle or on an aircraft: Should it be a sports car or a family van or anything in between? Then I look at the budget I have available. And in the end, I'll get comparisons and buy where I get most of my money under the line. As a rule, this is a process in which the providers are overrun with offers and discounts and exceed each other in order to get the supplement. None of us need lobbyists to do this. None of us need their own lubricating account. And a bird will most likely be shown to the seller when he tells something about counter-businesses. Yes, of course, this example is overstated and the acquisition of interception hunters is a much more complex process than buying a car, but in the core it is precisely about bringing requirements, budget and offers into line, and the simpler and, above all, more transparent the whole is designed, the better it is for the population, the better the result is under the line, because there is no room for random painting of different kinds. Especially in view of the forthcoming re-purchasing of the jet trainers as a replacement for the already very weak Saab 105, the committee of inquiry in this House is again given a very concrete dimension. So I can only say: Work can begin. I'm already looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9575	I call Mr Brückl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9596	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, you said here earlier, who you think benefits from this committee of inquiry. It is not always about profit in life, but it will, I hope, benefit the population and this government and the Republic. This investigative committee must make it clear – an information without regard to persons, without regard to their political position and their social status and without regard to their political belongings. This is what we stand for as a liberal, and that is why we have now, together with the Greens, strengthened ourselves for this committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Examining Committee will have to deal with this, probably already starting with the decision-making process or before, because when you think back, you know that Eurofighter, that EADS was originally not intended to make offers, because you already assumed that you cannot deliver. It will be necessary to look closely at the flows of payments and also the counter-businesses. Mr Scheibner said yes at the time: According to the motto: From a schilling – which we still had as a currency at the time – make two schilling!, an investment in the Eurofighter will return twice. One will have to look at Gianfranco Lande's 2011 statement, which in reality has also contributed to the fact that large stones have come into play here, and which has contributed to the fact that Vector Aerospace's network has been brought to flight in contrast to the Eurofighter. One will have to look at the comparison, the so-called Darabos comparison. One will have to link the time sequence of things that happened at the time: When did the comparative negotiations begin? When was the task force used? When did the Investigation Committee I end? When were the detailed agreements signed? The funding contracts, which have already been mentioned today, will have to be considered, for example, in connection with the SK Rapid Vienna. You'll have to look at yourself: Did there appear to have been operations that were then rated as counter-businesses? All of this has to be questioned – without regard to the person, without regard to their political belonging, their social status or their professional status! We stand for this, and if at the end of the day it comes out that the Republic and the taxpayers are getting back money, it was also right to use this investigation committee, and then this commitment was quite simply necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9648	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9669	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The German army is out of question, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a great concern to me. The Causa Eurofighter will be rolled up again. The years will be examined and clarified from the beginning of 2000 to the end of 2016. The investigation will begin with the comparison of 2007 with the then Minister of Defense Norbert Darabos. This Committee of Inquiry on the Causa Eurofighter is the second, since from autumn 2006 to summer 2007, a committee of inquiry examined this matter. Now, political education is expected to focus on the comparison concluded in 2007 by Darabos, then Minister of Defense, with the jet manufacturer. It is perfectly right to clarify the whole facts: With whom did the business become – fake business! – completed? Which mailbox companies were there in the game? According to the current Minister of Defense, a €1.1 billion damage has been incurred. The comparison with the jet manufacturer, completed in 2007, saved the Republic of Austria a lot of money, said Darabos, then Minister of Defense. The Minister of Defense now said that there would be a damage of 1.1 billion in the room. Here it is important, necessary and correct that there is a complete reconnaissance in this causa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9695	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9717	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My sympathy also applies to the Austrian federal army, specifically under the leadership of Minister Doskozil. The Eurofighters were already a political problem when they were acquired, but now this Causa is obviously becoming another financial and probably political disaster. Under Federal Minister Darabos, in whose office a renegotiation of the Eurofighter agreements fell, the contract was shortened by three interceptors and it was agreed that three aircraft would be taken over in a used condition. The exclusion clause from the original contract was no longer incorporated into the new Treaty. That's where the question arises: Why and what was the improvement of the contract? ==References====External links== In February 2017, examples of high spare part procurement costs as well as their real values are presented. That's what I'm asking myself: Where did the control stay, and why did they not notice far overcrowded payments? If the information provided by the Member of the Green Dr. Peter Pilzden corresponds to the facts, the first question is: How does the Pilz Member come to this information? and, on the other hand, also: What consequences does this committee have for those concerned and for the further safeguarding of our airspace, which is essential? Corruption always requires at least two partners. Now it is important to explain whether and who has benefited. Finally, I would like to recall the sales of various barracks and military properties among Minister Darabos and also under Minister Klug and encourage them not to forget. An examination of these would certainly be superior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9757	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9778	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, home, on the go, at the workplace! Today we are negotiating the new Eurofighter investigative committee for the first time in the National Council plenary session. Our citizen movement, the NEOS, was founded to reduce corruption in all interests in this country, and therefore we will invest our energy, just as we did with high quality in the committee of inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria. We were founded as a citizen movement, a citizen movement to push back the felt and the friendly economy, and another task is to dive deeply into the investigation work within the framework of this Eurofighter investigation committee. At the same time, I would like to add one aspect to the debate which has not yet been discussed, and which I believe is a first collated use of this Committee of Inquiry, a benefit that can be taken with it, namely that Austria does not have a defence policy approach. We are completely on the blind when it comes to how we want to organize our defense. The bowl had no stupid idea at the time, because the bowl has said the following: We are buying a European product because we will also organise defence in a European context in the future! Originally, Minister Doskozil – and I believe that these were approaches to courage and sincerity – were planned for 30 aircraft, of which six were double seats intended for international operations. At that time Wolfgang Schüssel said: Of course, the neutrality that we are living today is not the same as that of 20 years ago! We have to say goodbye to old stencils! – That was still courage! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] It was still courage to say: We have to say goodbye to old stencils! And today we have a young Minister of Europe who makes a very old policy. There was much further bowl 20 years ago. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kogler and Mr Fekter.]] Today, a Sebastian Kurz stands out and says: “...the neutrality is part of the Austrian soul.” – That is enough for a headline in the Boulevard, but of courage, honesty and sincerity there is nothing to see, and you know it. You have a bad conscience because you know it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The first collated use of this investigation committee is that the blind populism of the ÖVP is revealed. As a European Party, you have completely lost the thread, you have lost the courage to really name and drive forward honest solutions. [[Abg. Kogler: There is also a Karl-Heinz Grasser of foreign policy!]] – There is a Karl-Heinz Grasser of foreign policy, so it is! [[Calls to the Greens.]] – But you all knew right away who I mean, gal? That's amazing. I think we will have to discuss this because: What are the views of the Minister of Defence about how we will monitor the airspace in the future? I would like to discuss this, Minister of Defence. I don't want another cow being chased through the village every week to have a headline, but the solutions for the country and for the people remain completely on the track. The policy of announcement, in which both of them overlap, does not hold anyone out any more: Mr Kurz makes a proposal and a separate preparation of the EU Presidency, and Mr. Kern also makes its own preparation and plan E. That is totally unresponsible! We have the EU Presidency twice in one generation, and these are great opportunities to influence the future of this continent if we come to bold proposals. But you do not even try, but you sacrifice the proposals for the future of this continent of party policy tactics: Small instead of honest solutions, national populism instead of European integration! – We have come far with the majority parties here in this Parliament! Once again, Minister Doskozil: We know that the future of the European sky is, of course, common, is the Single European Sky. If it goes well, we will not have a spotter in the sky, if it goes badly, we will have to strain the barbed wire that you now want to stretch around 28 EU Member States. This is particularly difficult because jet planes are already struggling to turn a curve over Vorarlberg, when 28 countries in the air still have a barbed wire fence, this will not go out completely with the surveillance. It is not responsible to young people in this country because in 2045 we will live in a context in which no longer European countries will sit at the table at the G-8 meeting. According to today's knowledge – and you all know these projections – Germany will have delivered the spoon to Mexico, France to Indonesia and Great Britain to Brazil; it will sit Russia at the table, it will sit India at the table, it will sit China at the table, but there will be no European country sitting at the table. We will have the situation that we are faced with a dynamic growth area of Asia: 1.7 billion Indians and Indians, 1.5 billion Chinese, and you are making skewer species policy here for 8 million people and you believe that you can spread sand into your eyes and say: Security is guaranteed. [[Call the ÖVP:Recept!]] Security was not guaranteed even during the Cold War. We know today that for the first battles we would have been the first runaway and that the atomic bomb would also have fallen down on us if it had gone hard, and that's why we shouldn't be talking about people. We should not let them go – either Europe is organizing together on the security issue or we will have no security. We'll be playing ball big powers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] If we do not define ourselves, then we will be defined, and of course other people and other nations will notice something and come to mind. A woman can board a plane today, fly for five hours, but after leaving, she can't even drive another car, because it's not wanted there and because it's part of the values there. That is not what we want, but if we become ball of foreign powers, then others will overcome their issues of values, and that is why we need a defensive democracy at European level and we need to organize together – even in the airspace! Now, for the first time, we can see that we meet with the Swiss in 2017 with a contract under international law. But again: In the EIA, for example, no one is seriously interested in this question – not a single person! You have completely signed out in Europe's political and security policy, you're just shivering on the headline of the next day. Chancellor's core also makes the flip-flopper, zigzag, where it goes. This started with CETA: On the other hand, he was, on the other hand, his members, then he was for it, and his MEPs were against it again. The same thing we have seen on the question of Turkey this week and last week, only then will it be maneuvered, which somehow infect consultants – the same consultants who also advise legal conservative and legal national regimes, in Poland, in Hungary or elsewhere. You only turn to populism: Neonationalism as a vote maximisation program. That won't be well, and you know it. This, of course, has to do with the question: How do we organise security policy? The Eurofighter will activate your bad conscience over months. Whenever we discuss the Eurofighter, we will also have to discuss the question: What is your concept, Mr Lopatka, for the security of this country? – And it will be obvious: You don't have one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And dear SPÖ: What is your concept for the subject of security in Austria? – They make symbolic policy. We need national measures in the short term, I see, but we will need European solutions in the medium and long term. But nothing comes from this European meeting of all the Heads of Government, and nothing comes from the Austrian Federal Government. If we wanted to, Mr Minister of Defence – and that would be a proposal you could make – we could have 30 000 men and women at the European external border within a month. The Heads of Government only had to do it on 25 May. At their meeting in Rome, they say good-bye. We have millions of people under arms, the police, the military, we can set up our own Border Guard instead of having 2 500 – such a starved number – standing at 10,000 kilometers. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] We could also plan and implement honest, genuine measures here. They don't want to, and that's too little in the long run!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9881	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[14:45:10]] Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-03-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9903	According to § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the request made by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure by 3/US concerning the setting up of an investigation committee on the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system. I announce that the self-employed have received applications 2051/A(E) to 2062/A(E) at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 2.46 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
