ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10489	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Members of the Austrian Federal Government! I'll open the 194. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:07:16]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2017/2018
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10514	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 23. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 13th. September 2017 at its ordinary 2017/2018 meeting of XXV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 192. Meeting and the 193 official protocol. Meeting of 13. In July 2017, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. As an obstacle, MEPs are reported MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, Zanger, Dr. Lichtenecker, Dr. Moser, Windbüchler-Sushill, Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer, Doppler, Dr. Winter. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10543	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Interior Power. Wolfgang Sobotka. [[09:08:24]] Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10585	Ladies and gentlemen! Today's meeting of the National Council is something like a bulwark in the history of our Republic. For the first time since the founding of the Republic in 1918, the National Council meets outside the Parliament building at the Ring. In order to enable the necessary renovation of the 130-year-old historic Parliament building and to preserve it for next generations, we will meet here in Hofburg today and hold our meetings in the Great Redouten Hall. On the occasion of this premiere, I would like to do something that is not so common in national Council meetings, because, unlike usual, when we discuss current issues and decide on laws that change the immediate reality of life or the future of people to a greater and sometimes smaller extent, I would like to look back a little on the beginnings of Austrian parliamentarianism today. In the course of the Revolution in 1848, the first parliament on Austrian soil had only a few meters from here, namely in the winter riding school of the Hofburg. Archduke Johann opened the first meeting of the so-called Reichstag with the following words: “In the vocation of the representatives of the populace to their own birth [...] rests the most secure guarantee of the spiritual and material development of Austria.” Parliament did not last long in 1848, but we are happy to agree to this sentence today. Many of the men and women who fought for democracy in 1848 lost their lives in the weeks following this first meeting in combat. Democracy could not be stopped permanently by the rifle balls: An idea whose time has come cannot be stopped. Democracy had to be fought hard and the democratic achievements, such as freedom of expression and the right to vote, were associated with enormous commitment. This is what we should consider today – just a few days before the National Council election on 15 May. October – remember when it comes to exercising the right to vote, one of the most important elements of our democracy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, from today we will meet here in the Great Redout Hall for at least three years. The National Council thus draws to a historic place. In 1631 this hall was built, he was designed as a dance hall. In 1699 he went into flames. After his reconstruction, large operas were performed here, but for example the premiere of Beethoven's Achter Symphony took place here. In the Second Republic, the hall was transformed into a convention center that offered the world's policy stage. Jimmy Carter and Leonid Breschnew signed the historic Salt II disarmament agreement here in 1979. As likely as many of you are still well remembered, the redout hall was almost completely destroyed in November 1992 in a second big fire. At that time, the reconstruction of this hall lasted for five years; it was accompanied by many discussions, including the use of this hall. In the course of the reconstruction, the painter Josef Mikl was finally commissioned to design for the ceiling and the walls these paintings you see here. His design was then made by the jury as a clear and impressive testimony of the late 20th century. ==References== My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have a beginning today and we are also approaching an end at the same time. ==References== It is almost unanimously decided on the early termination of this legislative period, and this means that this first plenary session here in the Court of Justice will be at the same time one of the last meetings during this legislative period. We also know that the discussions before a National Council election often become hotter and that the different positions sometimes conflict even more strongly. It is, however, the essence of democracy that sometimes the best solutions have to be taken hard. In the next 25 days – right up to the National Council election – we should not lose sight of the fact that it is also the essence of democracy and that it belongs to democracy to respect the opinions of others. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking all those who have contributed to the success of this transfer project: With all of you, I thank you, however, especially for the around 120 people who were involved in the reconstruction of this large redout hall – whether they have worked in electrical or domestic technology, in the restoration or in the installation of the seat benches on which you took place today. Without the use of these Professionals, we can't hold our meeting here today. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] [[9:15]] I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration and from 19.40 a.m. [[09:15:25]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10664	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Direct democracy and self-determination instead of CETA and TTIP dictatorships, Federal Chancellor!” Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. I give the floor to you and draw attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10691	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I see that the Social Democratic Ministers are the hard-working people today, but on the ÖVP side there is no one present, which is also interesting. [[Abg. Wenninger: How should it be different?- Oh, my God!]] When it comes to direct democracy and self-determination, there is apparently shared interest on the part of the government. At the beginning of the year, the popular desire for “Gegen TTIP / CETA” received more than 562,000 signatures, which was a great success. There has already been a member survey with the Social Democratic Party of Austria, which has been very clear on this issue: 88 percent of SPÖ members who participated clearly opposed CETA. That would actually be very, very clear figures, but it is quite remarkable if you experience that this apparently doesn't really interest the SPÖ Party Head and Federal Chancellor Core. In fact, when it comes to the opinion of the members of the party or the opinion of the Austrian population, which, in popular desire, has made very, very keen attention to the fact that there are massive criticisms and that one should actually hold a referendum in this respect, which is however rejected, one may have less interest in keeping up with such results. Unfortunately, the way in which the Greens have recently shown themselves in Vienna as regards the hay market project, which is also concerned with the preservation of the world's cultural heritage. In this respect, a vote was held among the members of the Vienna Greens, with a majority voting against this project, but then the politicians of the Greens in the Vienna Landtag did not follow the vote result, but decided on this project anyway and thus finally threatened the status as a World Heritage Site. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] I say: We are not in principle opposed to free trade agreements, if we are talking today about CETA and TTIP – there are developments that one must already have in mind – but it is about which legal systems, which contracts stand behind them. It cannot be said that so-called independent arbitration courts will remove our national jurisdiction in the future and then sue corporations with global corporate interests and could remove such private arbitral national law. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I say: It can and must not be that the Austrian rule of law is undermined. It is completely unclear who should take these judgments in the future and whom these judges are obliged, but we already want to protect and preserve our Austrian rule of law, which is a pillar of democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] CETA and TTIP are a huge danger. Why? – It is a huge danger when it comes to the possibility that our European food standards, our animal welfare standards, and also our environmental protection and worker protection directives might in future be removed precisely by such decisions by private arbitration courts. That can't be! I say: A democratically unauthorized Commission can continue to develop the TTIP Treaty, which is planned! – to change and thus to decide again on Austrian law. These trade agreements simply mean very wide-ranging changes, and therefore we all have the responsibility to ensure and to state very clearly and clearly how we stand before the National Council election. – We have a clear position! Madam President, in her speech today, Madam President Bures rightly highlighted the predecessors of democracy, the year 1848. Yes, that is beautiful, and if we also remember how many victims there have been until we were fortunately able to fight for democracy, then it is particularly important that we continue to develop this democracy and hopefully ensure direct democracy and binding referendums in the future. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But this does not seem to interest everyone. From the SPÖ there is apparently little interest in letting the population decide, but also from the EIAs, unfortunately, God is taken such a position. Keep your mouth shut, we already know what is good for you citizens!, is the motto. Letting the population decide is obviously seen as something bad, one is also afraid of the decision of the population. I'm saying we're not afraid. Our constitution clearly states that “right goes from the people”, which is not entirely guaranteed to this day. We want to ensure exactly that in future also with binding referendums and direct democracy for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, of course, there are concrete interests behind the free trade agreements, of course – if there are in principle good contracts in the area of free trade agreements – our Austrian businesses, the small and medium-sized enterprises that produce and export, also advantages, no question. That is why it is so important that such contracts, which do not undermine our national jurisdiction and our important standards, are enforced. Of course, we are talking about global corporate interests again and again, social democracy always takes the concept of so-called predatory capitalism into its mouth. Therefore, I do not understand why it is precisely from the Social Democracy that one will insist, after the election, on the 15th. October in the question of CETA – and this opens the doors for TTIP – to let the Austrian population decide. It seems that there is no interest in limiting predatory capitalism and the interests of global corporations. – Of course, you can understand this with regard to infiltrators such as Alfred Gusenbauer and others, who have stood in the back with great business interests as consultants. Our access is another! Direct democracy means an intensive discussion of issues within the framework of political debate culture. The parties and their representatives are encouraged to convince the citizens of their positions in terms of content. We also have to stick to such a popular decision, and of course some in the Republic are hurting. Of course, one has more interest in the fact that the Party Secretariats make the last decision, but it should not be that way in the long run, that is exactly what has led many Austrians – I say – to be politically drowned. They are not politicists, but they are politicists. They rightly criticise these systems, which are in their form, and want to recognise changes through democratic renewals and improvements. A very important point when it comes to ensuring direct democracy: The Austrian population has a huge potential for talent, skills, talents and is characterized by a commitment to performance, diligence and great commitment. There is also a great confidence in the Austrian population, a fine sense of justice and respect and a strong sense of what is right and what is wrong for our country. Direct democracy as a complement to parliamentary democracy is exactly the perfect, good and right way; analogous to the Swiss model, evaluated for more than 100 years. It is therefore important to strengthen people's confidence in politics and to regain them; one must not continue to play it grossly and negligently, as God's unfortunately happens in some areas and is the case. That is why we believe that measures must be taken to ensure direct democracy. The first step should therefore be to create the constitutional foundations of a national legislation, to further adjust the national Council's rules of procedure by means of an own-initiative proposal, and to introduce a veto-referendum and a national survey as a minority right, of course, and to be necessary – also analogous to Switzerland – the easier, the better. With more than 100 000 signatures, there will be a binding referendum as well, because the easier it is to make a referendum, the more prudent – this also shows Swiss experience – one also deals with the citizens' tax money. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Therefore, the threshold for popular desires must ultimately be low, low, so that the citizens are not treated as they are at present, I say, only as a bitter, but also have the right to correct decisions we are making here, have the right to intervene democratically, if blatantly attempts are made to go through decisions against the majority interests of their own people. In this way, I can only appeal to you today, because what is happening until now is just such a sort of thing: first, the election of 15th. In October, don't talk about CETA and TTIP, don't decide, and when the election is over, then in the future, by simple majority, we'll go through the decisions regarding CETA and actually put the population before complete facts. I therefore urge you to make a clear commitment today, namely to promise – we liberals do – that after the 15th century you will be able to do so. October, of course, vehemently for this binding referendum on CETA, TTIP, but also for future other free trade agreements, for example with Japan!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10777	On a preliminary opinion, Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Reported at the heart of the debate. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10800	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by congratulating myself: The President-in-Office of the Council said that the move was excellent. You, Madam President, rightly thanked and acknowledged all those involved. I think that's really a successful project! From my point of view, the debate that Mr Klubobmann Strache has started is about two or three aspects more than he has just mentioned, so I would like to add a few comments. The first thing from my point of view is: Let's look at where Austria stands today, let's look at what is happening in our world around Austria today – we have to say that we are on a good path. We have an economic growth that we are now at the forefront of the eurozone: 2.75 percent, as much as ten years ago. We have a job dynamics that shows a similar picture. Last year, 80 000 new jobs have been added; the Minister of Social Affairs has recently published the relevant statistics. And Austria also managed in the summer to be the country that has reached the highest utilization of its industry. This means that the economic conditions we find in Austria today are intact. They are capable of improving, that is not a question at all, but we are on a high level today. If you look at what happened to this economic growth when you read the detailed analyses, you can see some very remarkable aspects. An important driver has been the tax reform that my predecessors have launched and that you have decided in the House. Another important part is the investment that is beginning to have a slow impact. These are the investment packages that the Federal Government has launched and released in the budget of last year. And of course it is also true that our economic growth is borne by the positive development of exports. [[Abg. Strache: What does this have to do with direct democracy?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Incorrect note!]] If you look at this in detail, this means, of course, that we all know, that we do not need to do a particularly detailed data analysis at all, that Austria is an export nation, and if you want to do so, the second side of these trade agreements is simply one million jobs in Austria. However, we have also seen that, due to international development – and globalisation is now a fact – we have the situation that imbalances have arisen and that, in particular, on a European scale, the lower middle class has suffered. Now, if we look at how this world is developing, I think there are two, three points in which we can reach agreement relatively quickly that they are relevant to us. One is the development of technology, which fundamentally changes the environment, and the second is globalisation. We know that we can't lock the technology into a box and stow it at the attic so that it doesn't concern us anymore, and the same applies to globalisation. The situation is such that we are certainly unable to reverse the integration of the world economies. If these are the conditions in which we are likely to reach agreement quickly, then from my point of view it is equally clear that we must be aware: In this process, which is taking place there, we must try to play a shaping role and not simply be driven by this development. In the past, the Austrian success model has never been that we have focused on becoming cheaper than other nations, and we will not want to or will not be able to rise with the cheapest wages, not with the cheapest social standards, with the lowest environmental standards in the future. That is why we have developed a strategy that is very clearly aimed at strengthening Austria and Europe, and to this end several points are to be mentioned. One thing is: We have been aware of strengthening investment. You can also see the growth figures, which is a successful concept. We have also been aware of the need to promote innovation in Austria. Mr. Vice-Kanzler Brandstetter and I had the pleasure of taking part in the Mühlviertel, in the Mühlkreis, in the opening of another production road and research laboratory of Kreisel. We see that world innovations, which are of course also aimed at export markets, have an opportunity in Austria. As the third strategy, we also want to promote very consciously all those who are willing to create jobs in Austria. There is, however, a fourth point in the story that I would like to address in particular. We all know that there will only be strong Austria in a strong Europe and that European cooperation is essential for us to solve all the challenges of our time, whether economic policy, or migration, is the issue of security policy. In this CETA discussion – one has to raise it to a level we are talking about – it is also very likely whether Austria wants to play an active role in Europe or whether we want to become a football player, whether we want to be able to shape it, or whether we have to take note of what others think about us. [[Abg. Kickl: Then present these arguments to the population! Don't be afraid!]] The same applies to the European role in the world, because of course Europe has the same challenge. We have to ask ourselves: Who will define the standards for world trade in the future? – There are two more options, which is similar to the Austrian role in the EU: Either we wait until the Chinese, until the Americans, until other world powers probe this game, enforce their standards, enforce their policies, or we try to make Europe play an active, conscious role and set European standards in world trade. I am quite clear that I am in favour of this task in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us repeat how this entire CETA process has been replaced! As we know, there have been years of negotiations, and for me the situation was such that in June 2016 we had the finished contract on the table. At that time I had been Federal Chancellor for a few weeks. It would have been easy to say, unfortunately, that happened before my term of office, because you can't do anything, it would have been easy to hide away, but that's not my understanding of politics. My job as Federal Chancellor is to ensure that good solutions for Austria are realized, and not to close my eyes when it becomes unpleasant. On the European Commission's approach: At a meeting at the end of June 2016, the President of the Commission submitted that the EU Commission was going through, decide and fully enter into force of the CETA package. At the time, we fought against it, opposed it, were considered by the EU Commission President with the little flattering wording, which is only Austrian. The reality is this: In the end, the Commission has moved in, and we have reached a very essential point, namely that the commercial part is separated from investor protection in so far as the provisional application applies only to the commercial part. This was a major step forward in these discussions with the EU Commission. This is also important because Mr Strache was right to refer to special rights of international corporations. The second, which is also important, however, in this discussion, is that we have achieved, with this additional protocol, which is clearly legally binding in our view, that it has been reaffirmed that the States have the right to regulate fully, and we can also ensure that there is no forced privatisation of our general care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The third point was that we also disputed that the precautionary principle should continue to apply. An important point in this statement of principle – and I therefore come to your key argument, Mr Klubobmann – is that we are developing the courts to ensure investor protection. This is an important point, therefore, because the President of the European Commission confirmed once again in his speech on the situation of the Union last week. He presented a comprehensive trade package and said that it was a new mandate for negotiations on such a multinational commercial court. That is crucial, therefore, because we have always been very familiar with this because we have always said that we do not want special rights for international large companies in Austria. This principle agrees with us, and I have to make sure that this does not happen. How do we get there?, is the crucial question. I think it has been shown that we have made progress with persistence, that the Commission has changed positions and understood that we can no longer do what we had in these projects. We have made progress through the declaration of principle, through the separation of a provisional application, and I must say that I think it is right that we should work towards improvements at European level, and I also think it is right that we should then stand by the results achieved and agree with them. What is CETA's state of affairs now? . We know that the provisional application will enter into force tomorrow, but not investor protection. To emphasize this is important. In my view, this ensures that, when disputes arise from this Treaty, these are to be negotiated before Austrian courts, which are bound by the legislation of Austria and the laws adopted by the High House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, one must say, however, that this CETA discussion is often, if I may allow this judgment, driven by a certain superficiality; there is some populist approach, both at the pro-CETA and at the counter-CETA position. If you analyze soberly, you have to say that CETA is a trade agreement that will at best increase the income of Austrians by €6 per month. It must be clarified that milk and maple syrup will not flow, even if some of them are desperately trying to argue here. But it is just as wrong to construct downfall scenarios and to frighten people. From my point of view, lessons from CETA that need to be learned are the following: First: With CETA, standards for international trade have been set, as we did not have them before. I think that this point too is beyond dispute. It is clear that all further trade agreements must not be remedied. This applies in particular to the agreement with Japan already quoted today and, of course, to the TTIP agreement. The second, which is also crucial, is that we need a completely new form of investor protection. We cannot live with the special rights provided for in the special case for large companies. We've made that clear. It's not questionable for us. The third point, of course, is transparency. [[Abg. Kogler: Then you have to reject the contract! It's no different!]] . Now we are on the crucial point, Mr Kogler! When we talk about what we're discussing, we're talking about that in case we don't want to, we actually stop the whole project, and there you have to look at the environment we're discussing. We know that after Trump and after Brexit, the EU has deliberately agreed to play a stronger role, to act self-confidently and to try to move forward this European integration project with even greater momentum and to enforce the European positions in the global game of forces. My personal conviction is: If we reject it now, then we destroy this concept, then Austria destroys this strategic perspective for the EU. But we have to consider very well: What's next? What does that mean? [[Abg. Kickl: Exactly! Euro for everyone!]] This is not just a question of CETA, it is a fundamental question of how we want to position Europe in the world. As Federal Chancellor, I feel to the highest extent responsibility regarding the future of this European project and the strong future of Austria in the EU. When we discuss that we are destroying this project and shooting it into the air, I have to tell you openly, we are talking about taking a deeply anti-European position. Then we will not only destroy the role of Europe in the world, but we will also have to consider what this means for Austria's position within the EU, because this path leads us directly to the donkey bank in the EU – just next to Hungary and Poland – and would isolate us; I can tell you that I was most intensive in these discussions. I therefore came to the following assessment: For us it is important that we get a new concept for these commercial courts – this is an extremely important point for me! We know that the ECJ has a decision to make. We know that the declaration of principle states that progress has to be made in this regard. However, such an agreement on new courts is far and wide, and I believe it will take years for us to have a similar approach. From my point of view, therefore, the solution is to say: Yes, we are confessing to the European commitments, yes, we are destroying this idea that Europe has, not to dominate and determine more strongly world trade, not to leave it to the Chinese and Americans – but no, we are not willing to allow further special rights for international corporations. I think this is the right way, and that is why I believe that, before all these questions are resolved in a minute, there is no basis for the Austrian Government to submit to the CETA High House for ratification.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10933	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the other speakers is 5 minutes. I call Mr Klubob-mann. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e10954	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you allow me to go from the 5 minutes – the speaking time is 5 minutes, because here there are 10 minutes set; but wurst – 1 minute to go to this historic moment, because since 1883 it has happened for the first time since 1883 that the National Council and also the Federal Council, that is, the legislative bodies of Austria, not in the house at the ring, in the parliament, but in a evasion district. [[towards President Bures]] [[President Bures nockt]] [[pointing to an ad at the speaker’s desk]] It is the third, if you want to do so, parliamentary quarter – before that there was the Provisionorium in the Währinger Straße in 1861. But let me say something because we also talk about world trade: An interesting detail about the whole thing is that the Austrian Parliament, the House at the Ring, was the first planning project in our cultural circle planned in meters and not in Klatter. We can already see how technological history develops and, of course, globalizes. At the same time, however, I would like to say that this project has been successful and this is a worthy framework. Since it is also about direct democracy and democracy in general, one must say at the same time that the appeal to all of us, the self-approach must be that we also fill this worthy framework with sufficient dignity in the political debate, both in the election campaign and here in the house, because the best thing that one can do about democracy is to live it and to live it honestly in such a way that there is a meaningful discourse also about the future of our country. I believe that trade policy and fair trade are marked by two extreme poles, both of which make no sense. There are, of course, the ones who would like to fire Austria off, who say: We don't want anything from world trade, we don't want all this globalisation, we don't want Europe, we don't want all these things! . Just yesterday, we also had a show on television that would call into question the European Convention on Human Rights. This policy of decommissioning is certainly wrong, even in economic terms, because Austria is an export nation, is a country of tourism. 1 million Austrian jobs depend directly on export, so it is useful that Austria is looking for a policy that is also one of openness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Openness, ladies and gentlemen, also has its limits. The other position, which states: If we open up, there should be no more rules, world trade should simply be more powerful! not only does it not make sense, it is even dangerous. What we need is fair trade, and the discussion that is taking place at international level shows that globalisation and the world trade regime have also gone too far. There are legitimate discussions on such issues as: How can we protect our social state? How can we protect the achievements of social security in Europe and in Austria? How can we protect public services? How can we ensure that health does not become a marketable asset that only the rich can afford, but continues to be available – as in Austria – to everyone? [[Abg. Belakovich:... no idea at all!]] How can we protect social services? How can we protect education from privatisation, so that at the end of the day, not only does the wallet decide which school you can go to, or for those who cannot resort to a thick wallet, just the rest of the college? The same is true of water, housing and other goods of public needs, which we consider to be of course public good in Austria in this high quality, which should continue to be so and remain so. This issue was not quite clear in the CETA negotiations, and it was the Austrian rigidity, ultimately also due to the negotiating skill of German Chancellor Kern, that in the last round it could be ensured that these services continue to be public services and that CETA does not create any additional privatisation pressure on us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] The other question is how decisions are made, and there too you have to look very critically and carefully. The arbitration courts, in which public decisions are then to be brought before private courts of private corporations, by Multis, are not allowed to exist, and Austria has to prevent that with all its power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am glad and grateful that the Federal Chancellor has made it clear today: There will be no ratification of these arbitration courts with Austria, and the Austrian Federal Government alone, as long as the social democracy is involved, will not take a decision, which ultimately means that these arbitration courts are coming. No, we will not allow these arbitration courts to exist, because we think that this decision is still a public decision of true courts and, between states, of the political bodies of these states and not of multinationals, of international corporations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Of the last two points I would like to make, one is that there is not only a big discussion about CETA/TTIP, but also a question of introducing tax justice, so that the big corporations do not always fall by the rules and only the small traders in the country who then pay taxes, while the big ones do not pay any taxes at all. And the second point: At TTIP, the discussion is quite open, and in this respect we must say that this discussion has been sent back to the beginning, because TTIP is an instrument that makes no sense in itself and is therefore rejected by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11043	The next item is Mrs Dr. Nachbaur's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11065	Madam President. Dear government representatives! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! America first – the whole world cried out when Donald Trump announced his protectionist economic policy. Well, not the whole world, I have to revise immediately, the Federal Chancellor himself has presented his partly quite protectionist plan A and also changed the position more often in terms of CETA, but I find that the reasonable Western world has cried out that protectionism is being propagated here. [[Abg. Wenninger: Sensational what you trust!]] And that was right, ladies and gentlemen, because protectionism has never been good for an economy in the long term. I therefore say 'long-term', because the United States with its huge internal market can have been shut down for some time, and that will not hurt them any further, but in a small country like ours, an economic protectionist policy would be devastating. We earn six out of ten euros in Austria with exports, and with “we” I logically mean the private sector, because the state has never generated anything except debt – and much of it in Vienna, in particular, too much, but that is another subject again. [[Abg. Heinzl: The beautiful thing is that... know! ...the farewell speech! The speech was written by the Frank!]] In any case, we need export success, which is the guarantee for many, many jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question now arises whether we also need free trade agreements for the export success, and so some CETA critics claim that the companies need it, but that's not true! I can accept the following: I come from a company in Canada, and we've sold car parts all over the world, free trade agreements to or from here. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, right!]] This is what CEOs of other large corporations tell me, because large companies and companies sell anywhere, they have subsidiaries that usually don't pay any duties anyway, and even if they pay a few percent customs, they don't hurt them, just as it's not a problem for companies to try out licensing procedures, which can be very difficult. [[Abg. That's right!]] For SMEs, however, it seems quite different: They can't assign a whole department of employees to obtain approvals, and a lot of customs already make a difference. In Canada, for example, 12 percent inches were on Austrian jam, 8 percent on vinegar cucumbers. I have been able to tell many times in this House that I know Canada very well. I have lived in Toronto for twelve years, worked, bought, cooked, and I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, there is hardly a country in the world that is close to us politically, culturally and economically as Canada. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Do so many refugees take up there?]] Of course, there are hormone steaks in the steakhouse over there, and they taste great, but the consumer should decide for himself what he buys and what he eats. [[Abg. Kogler:... that's why the Group's privileges?]] Of course, information and labelling are essential. In this respect, there are strict labelling requirements in the CETA Agreement, and that is good. However, worldwide trade is more than about the labelling of steaks and customs duties for vinegar cucumbers, and I too am not an unconditional free trade advocate – on the contrary, we need to be careful not to be overestimated by an overpowered negotiating partner and to maintain our high standards – but the global trade as a whole is about something else, namely the question of our prosperity and jobs. For example, let us look at the free trade agreement between the EU and South Korea, which has been in force for five years: EU companies have at this time saved tariffs of almost €3 billion, EU exports increased by 55 percent and car exports tripled. Looking at trade contracts over the past 30 years, it can be seen that China, India and Thailand, for example, have developed enormously. Hundreds of millions of people have been liberated from poverty, especially from the yoke of Communism. Globalisation and trade have dramatically reduced world inequality. However, the side of the development is that of course many production companies from our – I say now – expensive countries have migrated to low-cost countries. We have social systems exactly for these people, for the losers of globalisation, who have lost their jobs in the Western world. We need the counterpart of a strong social system for the open free trade policy. But what is not desirable and cannot be financed at all is immigration into these social systems. Of course, that was not the case, and it must now be stopped quite clearly. At this point, I would like to quote the world-famous Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman – Madam President, then I will come to the end –: [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] You can have open borders or you can have a welfare state, but you cannot have both. And what's going on about free trade agreements: If they are fair and reasonable, we can all benefit. Protectionism on the other hand does not benefit anyone in the long run. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11182	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stefan zu Wort. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11203	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in Hofburg – truly no symbol of democracy, but we are talking about it now. We have not heard a word from the speakers of the government groups about direct democracy so far, and this is significant for me, because the theme of today's current hour is a popular desire that has been directed against CETA and TTIP. A popular desire in itself, as we know, is already a totally toothless instrument among the possibilities of direct democracy. One can only begin such a popular desire with very great effort, then one needs 100 000 signatures so that it is treated here at all – that is a huge effort – and then it is debated here once and then finally rubbed. We have gone through this, we have to say that people's desire to discuss a little further, but once again it has become clear that before the election Parliament and in that case the government groups no longer want to deal with the issue of CETA and TTIP and do not want to make any decision at all. If I understood the Chancellor correctly, a false decision by the population would endanger the concept of Europe. That is the way to act here, and therefore it was impossible to find dates to debate the popular desire before the election here in Parliament. Only on the pressure of the opposition parties has finally succeeded in putting it into effect. So you see: The relationship with direct democracy is very bad, at least if you look at red and black, i.e. the government parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is always being done about direct democracy? There are the big counterarguments. The first counter-argument is once, the population is too stupid to decide on things. – So whoever says this, he discredits himself anyway because he reveals his human image. The second is that the population is uninformed. First of all: Was the population too uninformed to vote on nuclear power stations? – Interestingly, we are all glad that the decision has failed. At least the backgrounds, how a nuclear power plant works and so on, will be understood, but the big problem has been understood by the people and decided accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or did the people decide incorrectly when they voted on the European Union? Maybe she was too uninformed? – We certainly meant that she was sometimes too uninformed, got too little information, but the argument is strangely never led into the meeting. Or also during the popular survey on the military duty that last took place: Was the population too uninformed, or is one finally happy about this decision? – So the argument that the population is too uninformed is really very far-reaching when you look at these examples. If you then think about what is too uninformed in connection with CETA and TTIP, you have to consider the following: CETA was first negotiated secretly and is a contract with a size of five hundred or so pages. Someone has to really understand that first! I think that as well as no one here in the hall really understands him perfectly. There you need specialists, because then you have to trust again, which you have to pull. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: They can vote in here!]] So too uninformed for reasons! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Or TTIP: At TTIP, which was secretly negotiated, we MEPs were allowed to enter into a chamber in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where we had to identify ourselves and turn off our phone, and read this – a more than a thousand-page work – a little in English. So what does uninformed mean? Are we now informed about TTIP, ladies and gentlemen? – So please, this argument is not really to be met! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next counter-argument is that it would be made crazy things, foolish votes. – First of all, the obstacle to a vote – I come to our concept immediately – is so great that it is almost unthinkable, and second, if it were so, it would move very quickly to the opposite. On the basis of the examples that one knows from Switzerland, one sees that one does not vote on absurd things and that then, if the population is involved and has to bear the consequences itself, it is surprisingly reasonable to deal with them. And the last point: Populism, funding only by great. – Well, I think it is less dangerous if a vote is financed than if whole parties are put into dependence, because for four or five years one has this dependence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The policy, as we see it, should not say goodbye to their decisions. We want a complement to representative democracy. We do not want to postpone decisions, on the contrary, we say that the population should have the opportunity to set up an initiative on its own. That's a huge difference! It's always thought like this: We shall allow votes to be taken. This may come from this House that the emperor once approved everything, and that is why Parliament, the National Council, should now approve something. – No, but it is about starting from below that the population can take an initiative on its own. We do not want to postpone and push for it, but we say that the population must have this opportunity as a complement to representative democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality, decisions here in Parliament would also significantly improve in their quality, if one knew that the population also has the opportunity to speak – the issue of veto-population has already been raised, so if we have made a decision here, the population will still have the opportunity to vote against it and demand a referendum. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] So if you really want to develop democracy, direct democracy, you have to choose FPÖ and you don't have to fear the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11288	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11309	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I and the Greens are voting for a referendum, for a People's Survey on the ratification of CETA. [[Call to the FPÖ:What greens are these?]] This has several reasons, and one of them is the Federal Government. The Federal Government and, unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor also play a completely false game with a start, with announcement and from the day of the mandate, and scatter sand into the eyes of the people. I will now explain to you the contexts along the chronology. One can always discuss what a popular survey, a referendum is being conducted. We are very sensitive here, and especially on European issues, a European vote is supposed to decide better, the majority of countries and the majority of the population. But this is a subject that German Chancellor Kern has put on – as one sees how well the green PR sometimes works, he has already taken over the term for a long time – namely that the main problem area in these agreements – including CETA, which is always so harmlessly represented – is the possibility of and access to very privileged corporate rights. It's like that, and you won't get rid of it. Now let's look at the chronology: The mandate was issued several years ago. Austria was ahead of us, we have studied the secret protocols of the Council working groups. The negotiation process has already begun, and then it has been inserted that these corporate rights are to play a role. Austria says: Yeah, we've always been for this kind of investor protection. – Bank protection, investor protection, always the same; human rights are more closely behind. – Austria has set itself in the front row to turn later on the open stage; both chancellors have done so, Faymann and Kern. That's exactly what can't go through! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point that can't be left out – I always do it, it costs me half a minute now –: Of course, trade can, of course, require reasonable trade relations. But we don't live so badly with the present. Of course, the question is just how it is designed. Today, the untruth has been said several times. Article 25 of the CETA Treaty clearly states that the precautionary principle will not remain that way. It's explicitly inside. We have already read the contract in the summer of 2015 – before the Chancellor, if the chronology is so important – in English at that time. That was recognizable, we have pointed out that you have not touched an earwash and always explained anything that goes completely by the thing. Labelling obligations are also very wrong. The problem is that overall there is a sharp level of trend downwards. The world is not going down, even tomorrow, nor does it claim to be a reasonable person. But it has the wrong start and goes in the wrong direction, and that is why it is critical. The particular problem, however, is these group rights, because they also make the entire shamott enforceable. You can still get that right out there, the chancellor's right. The chancellor broke up in October a year ago and tried to achieve something. I personally acknowledged this. He's just been galloping, that can happen. So, together with other packs around the drug, the papers were almost thicker than the contract. But: It's the contract, and you don't eat the pack, you eat the medicine, and that's a bitter pill. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now we have the opportunity to separate precisely these group rights. The chancellor has come home and has said that he has insisted that Parliament can still decide. - That's right. Then we decide! He has now chosen the wise way not to lead it; thus it would never enter into force. It is correct that certain parts of the European legal system will be provisionally recognised tomorrow. That makes sense. However, the privileged corporate rights are not inside. This has been fought together, perhaps the chancellor has a share – respect when it is! – but it was always clear that Parliament – we here, you or those who are then elected – will decide on parts. We have repeatedly pointed out that we can only stop all of this, including privileged corporate rights, if we do not ratify the entire Treaty. There's only one more yes or a no now. You haven't listened to us before and now it's about a yes or a no and not about the slinging, dizziness and swirling course, which is also driven by the SPÖ here. That's the point: Yes or no. Since you yourself do not find a plan and all the government negotiations are being charged with it, let us clear the way for a People's Survey! Then maybe you'll find yourself back in the lead. You have not shown responsibility, but you have spread sand into people's eyes.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11355	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11376	Madam President. The liberals want to discuss free trade and direct democratic opportunities here, and You see for yourself how difficult that is. On the one hand, we have a federal chancellor who is never quite sure whether he is for or against free trade. Klubobmann Strache said today that he was basically for free trade. This has been a different thing for me for the last one and a half years. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You have to watch out for what is said!]] There are also the greens who make populist moods, and Klubobmann Schieder, who makes populist moods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] That's exactly the big difference with Switzerland, because in Switzerland meaningful discussions are being held before direct democratic decisions. Mr Stefan, you also know that there is a corresponding voting document in Switzerland before each vote. This is something that is essential for direct democratic decisions. You know what happened in the negotiation process on the voting book that we conducted here in Parliament: The government parties first asked themselves who would write it in the future. That means there's not even the commitment to go there. Therefore: In such a populist debate as this one is being held, direct democratic decisions, which we naturally support, are quite difficult. [[Abg. New builder: What is populist?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Of course this is populist, Mr Neubauer. Colleague Strache has been in favour of free trade since the very latest, but he would like to be shot off with a restricted, nationalist, protectionist view. [[Abg. Strache: What's the nonsense? We have free trade! What are you talking about?]] You know that, once it is for the European Union, then suddenly for the withdrawal from the European Union. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Strache.]] We have the same thing with the Greens, who are usually always afraid when it comes to trade, competition and the market economy. There is exactly the same problem with the trade union. The problem at all is that you are not willing to accept in principle the advantages of free trade. Free trade promotes peace. You know that the great project of the European Union is that we have put together and traded together. That's why we haven't hit the skulls on this continent for 70 years. [[Abg. Brosz: Why Do You Need Arbitrations?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] They know from and for themselves that free trade and globalisation promote prosperity. You know that 1999... – Mr. Strache, it is primarily about you giving a commitment to free trade and not always populistly disrupting the discussion. [[Abg. Strache: Did you know that it...?]] [[Abg. Strache: It is about arbitration and direct democracy! But if you...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This one is more than the German chancellor!]] Free trade and globalisation promote prosperity. In 1999, 30 percent of the world's population lived in bitter poverty, extreme poverty. In 2015, it was only 10 percent. But the whole thing cannot work if you continue to try to do with your populist fear-making policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Free trade and the corresponding agreements can make it possible for us to somehow enforce our high European standards worldwide. That's one of the few things I'm giving the chancellor right. The other option proposed by the Greens and the FPÖ is that we put the head in the sand, best not to negotiate anymore and get dictated by others. [[Abg. Brosz: The word arbitration does not occur!]] I don't want that. I would like us to be able to enforce our high European standards worldwide. [[Abg. That's why we also need our jurisdiction, the national government!]] The essential thing, Mr Klubobmann Strache, is that you have recognized this correctly, and it is strange that you still heat up this populist discussion – that free trade and especially CETA would be so important for SMEs in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: It is clear that he has recognized this correctly!]] It is not about the companies that have been trading transatlantic for a long time, as Mr Nachbaur has said. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is about small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Pro-Ject Audio Systems, an Austrian company that has now set up its headquarters in Mistelbach. This company is the world market leader in record players, a small Austrian company is the world market leader. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: There are many of them!]] Mr Rosenkranz, you as a listerster would also have to work for Lower Austrian companies. [[Abg. Strache: And you deliver the company to the arbitrators!]] I spoke to the Managing Director of the world market leader for record players, and he told me that because of the populist discussion about CETA, the Canadians told him already a year and a half ago that he no longer has to deal with admission procedures for his record players in any way. This is the result: In the end, Lower Austrian companies can no longer produce, no longer export, and subsequently have to reduce jobs because you did not understand the concept of free trade and prosperity. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's the way it is!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The scurry in the debate we are now having here is that you are also taking in TTIP. They are your friends Donald Trump and Marine Le Pen who have already made this happen anyway, we will not be able to discuss it anymore. [[Abg. Oh, God, my God!]] It is bizarre that Ulrike Lunacek and the Greens are still there. I always wonder how you feel in this constellation: Left populists on one side, right populists on the other. But they come together, namely in the populist fear of prosperity, free trade and the market economy. [[Abg. Strache: You want to make sure with Trump TTIP!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Skurril is also that at CETA you will have the discussion now as if there was a diktat. We know that, as an Austrian Parliament, we must, of course, agree to ratification. I hope you're a little self-confident. Finally, I would like to mention what irritates me so much during the whole discussion: If you already have such panicic fear of trading with Canada, I wonder who you want to trade with in the future. [[Abg. Street: No word about direct democracy!]] The result will be that you will put our competitiveness, our trade relations and ultimately the general prosperity in Austria at risk.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11717	Next, Mr Wittmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! One clearly sees the two extremes, on the one hand, protectionism, self-existence exclusively on the nation state, on the other side of the non-inhibited free trade. I believe that the truth is not on one extreme side, but also not on the other extreme side. [[Abg. Stefan: Located in the middle!]] You have to get the problems... – You're trying to get in the middle, but you're still far right outside. [[Abg. We are already sitting in the middle, Mr. Colleague.]] – In any case, one must recognise the problems that this CETA Free Trade Agreement really poses. In itself, free trade is a traditional mechanism to promote trade in the world and the exchange of goods. One cannot be against it in principle, but what is contained in this CETA package is a arbitration regime, an investment protection which is already worrying. It is not possible to remove the rules from those companies that already have economic power worldwide and to grant them a special form of the right of appeal against States. This is the first quality shift that exists because arbitration courts normally make decisions with contracting partners at the same level. Now it would also be possible to legislate paranationally on these arbitration decisions. One cannot be against the rules of free trade itself, but one must be against these safeguard mechanisms, which are incorporated into this free trade agreement, and that is the position of the SPÖ. We do not want these protection mechanisms, because the companies that already have the say worldwide and exercise economic power are not to be granted special rights of action. That's what's still to be negotiated. [[Abg. Kogler: It's in the contract!]] Only that part that reflects the European legal situation will enter into force tomorrow, not the one that reflects the national legal situation. There is a decision of the Federal Constitutional Court in Germany, which clearly states that the safeguard clauses and jurisdiction of national affairs are national matters and enter into force only with ratification. [[Abg. Kogler: But what is your plan now?]] Therefore, if one does not ratify, these protection mechanisms do not enter into force. This is our position, and we will simply have to talk about it, because that is not how it will come and it will not be possible to make these protection agreements effective. This is a responsible position: not to be shot off, not to give themselves protectionist, but to participate in the world trade and not to allow only those growths that only companies that operate worldwide who prefer not to allow. This is a responsible position that we as the government party expect. [[Abg. Kogler: Well, what does the ÖVP say?]] Now to direct democracy, as my colleague Stefan and colleague Strache, I am quite different: On the one hand, they argue against the fact that one paves the way for companies through CETA into political influence, into economic influence in Austria. On the other hand, the question arises: If unbridled free democracy comes, who has the opportunity to finance campaigns? Who will that be? – Those who have the economic power, those who have the corporations behind them who can afford campaigns. Not the simple citizen then has the power! Then the corporations can also order legislative texts. And that's what you want?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] As your argumentation is very contradictory, on the one hand you urge the corporations, on the other hand you clear the rules away, and then add the campaign ability to them. This ultimately leads to them being able to order legal texts. [[Abg. Strache: Did you talk to the stone knife, or how?]] [[Abg. New builder: As the bad guy thinks he is!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I think this is a very, very ambiguous interpretation. [[Abg. Kickl: This is an insult to all those who desire people...!]] We have been dealing with this problem for a year, we have spent six days and there has been no majority in favour of unbridled free democracy. Mr Hofer said yesterday in the television discussion that we would have to question the European Convention on Human Rights. – This is a consensus on human rights that is internationally valid! [[Abg. Neubauer: So you want the death penalty?- Oh, my God!]] This means that if we question this Convention on Human Rights and break it down to the national level, then we are divided from the European values. This would then also result in us opening the back door to the FPÖ through a direct survey of the population in order to leave the European Union. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This discussion can be conducted, and we are in favour of doing so. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Austria is one of those states with most direct democratic instruments and we can develop that already, but... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But they are not applied!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11921	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11936	... the unbridled development is dangerous for this state.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11974	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Straster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e11995	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! My grandmother was born in 1900, her husband was in war. He came home in 1945, the land is at that time in ruins. My parents were born in the interwar period, my grandparents and my parents have actively helped to rebuild our country. Why do I say that? – I really envy this generation for its confidence. This confidence is currently taking place in the current political discussions and also in the discussions on the role of Austria in the world. I see our formula of success in the inter-war period. Our success recipe was that we have successfully built regional economic cycles in Austria. - That's one. But I also see that we have successfully established an international network in Austria, with partners in Europe, with Germany, but also with partners around the world, in Asia, in America, in Africa. I would think that the work of this generation and this recipe of success are worth valued because they are the basis for prosperity and peace on our continent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser:... the intra-European free trade!]] I see that 30 percent of world trade is taking place in the EU. Yeah, we're still an economic power. [[Abg. Kogler: We don't need any corporate rights to do this!]] Economic researchers predict that 90 percent of global economic growth will take place outside the EU. Economic growth is in place to combat poverty, to fight hunger. There is a need to secure stable political conditions in developing countries, and there is a need for a better life for many people in this world. The last 20 years have shown this. We say yes to international trade, but not at all. I say that we in this House on 28 October. June 2017, when we decided that the TTIP negotiations should not continue under these conditions. So get back to the start! You have to look at that again, because a reliable partner looks different. Canada looks like a reliable partner and a contract was developed. I am really happy about the German Chancellor's speech today, who has also noted that this work of the treaty is very well done over long distances. I think we should really go in this direction together. Now a word about direct democracy: Mr Stefan, Mr Strache, let us look to the UK! Their partner party there, the UKIP, has really been very successful and decisively influenced the referendum. I respect this vote. It is a courageous decision to withdraw from this economic and social block and from this community of values. That's really to be respected. But I do not want to exchange with the British, and I also do not want to be in the skin of the driving UKIP forces, which then, the day after the vote, have so to speak, child-moving. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] At the beginning of the discussion about the Brexit there was a lot of controversy and chaos. Then the decision fell, and this is, as I said, to respect. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: How many nuclear power plants would you like in the Mostviertel?]] [[Abg. Strache: How many nuclear power plants would you like in Austria?]] But a principle of direct democracy would have to be that after a decision has been made and we are going in one direction together. If this is guaranteed, I agree with every direct democratic approach. But I say it again: I don't want to exchange with the British! The decision has fallen, the chaos has grown, and I do not want to exchange the uncertainty that can be felt in the UK economy either. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12096	Mr Themessl will be speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators also at home! What Mr Strasser said was already interesting. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, that was very interesting!]] Mr Strasser referred to the referendum in Great Britain and he accepted the decision. But through the flower one has heard that he probably thinks the population is too stupid to make the decision. The interesting thing is: The ÖVP-Mandatare and the candidates of the list Briefly want to be selected on one side by the population. On the other hand, they think that they are too stupid to make such decisions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Scherak, none of us have ever claimed that we are fighting free trade! It is only about the way in which this CETA agreement has been concluded. Mr Scherak, I do not know if you think it is good that the 1,500 pages of the CETA Agreement were kept secret until they were leaked in August 2014. Otherwise, you still don't know what's inside. And precisely against this course of action we are resisting! The interesting thing is that direct democracy has not been addressed here as well as if you take out Mr Strasser. But it was not mentioned otherwise by the government parties and also by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. You know: In Switzerland, direct democracy works. Mr Scherak also mentioned that in Switzerland the information of the population is very detailed, both in terms of pro and contra. Mr Scherak, I ask you: Who is preventing us from sufficiently informing the population in Austria as well? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or do you really think the Austrian population is as stupid or stupid as the Swiss, if you are giving such contributions of yourself? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He really does!]] I don't understand! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is this unbearable arrogance at the NEOS!]] [[Abg. Strache: Hazelsteiner!]] Do you think anyone would have thought that a referendum like in Switzerland, which was about extending the annual leave to six weeks, would have been rejected here in Austria? This would never have been thought of by anyone in Austria, especially with the Social Democrats! – However, this was rejected by 60 percent, because the population understood that jobs and income are more important than additional social benefits that cannot be afforded. That is why it is in direct democracy: to clarify the population about the fore and the resistance. And I am convinced that decisions at popular elections will be made in Austria in accordance with good knowledge and conscience. To return to the British again: Mr Strasser, to say that you accept the outcome of the referendum, but condemn that the people have voted in this way, that is double-edged! This again clearly shows what the ÖVP thinks of such things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to know in detail what this is about when it comes to an agreement as extensive as CETA. Mr Stefan also mentioned how TTIP was doing. How did you find out? Do you know the agreement? Do you know the CETA agreement with 1,500 pages? And if all this is so great and ideal and so important for Austria's economic location, I wonder: Why did one try to keep 1,500 pages of an agreement secret? Have you not even asked the question: Why try to keep 1 500 pages of an agreement secret and in a European Commission that is not democratically legitimate in making such decisions? You have to ask this question once! That is why we are in favour of direct democracy. I also say to all the spectators watching by TV today: If You have now heard, as the government parties and also the NEOS estimate the people that they do not trust them to vote correctly, then I will tell you now that you have not yet made a decision: ==References== October the liberals, then direct democracy is guaranteed, and you are not sold for stupid!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12214	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12235	Ladies and gentlemen! I regret the fact that the Federal Chancellor has already left us. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You will have to get used to this!]] At least it is unusual that he does not follow the debate in a current hour until the end. He'll have more important appointments. We take note of this. But this should not change the fact that we are bringing this debate to an end. We will see what government will have a decision to make at the end. You have to say: CETA's development is peculiar. First, there are secret negotiations, then provisional application, and then Federal Chancellor CETA does not want to present to Parliament for ratification. Unfortunately, I cannot address him, but I believe that it would be the logical consequence if this were to be such a good agreement that serves the interests of citizens to present this agreement to Parliament, to ask the people and to discuss it all. But the Federal Chancellor obviously does not want this because he himself is not convinced of it. I can remember: When he was freshly praised, he still criticized the danger of environmental and social standards. Now is no more talk of it! Today the high song came to CETA, and only with the non-ratification is followed a sling course so that his party and he do not have to declare himself. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would also like to address Mr Scherak, whom I very much appreciate on judicial matters: The question is not whether you are for or against world trade. That is not the crucial point! This is the populist peaking by NEOS. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question is: Under what conditions is this world trade to take place? – This is the central question we are discussing here, and not whether there should be it. [[New condolences with the greens.]] Is world trade so as to represent the economic interests of some less, or should world trade focus on the interests of citizens? With this in mind, I ask: If the interests of citizens are at the heart of the debate, why is the secret negotiated? – If citizens are at the centre of the agenda, there is an interest in discussing it transparently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A world trade, which only reduces customs duties, brings technical standards in line with them, but suspends social and environmental protection standards from global competition, which is not our approach! We want a world trade that takes into account the major global issues: The fight against poverty, social and labour law standards and the major issue of climate change and environmental protection. This has to be debated when we talk about world trade, otherwise we will not solve the major global issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, Europe could play a pioneering role and bring these standards into the debate. That is not what Europe is doing. I would like to point out: We are talking about CETA today, but there are already the next major free trade agreements in the roll, such as Mercosur, the Free Trade Agreement with South America. In this context, the major global issues will be debated. There are secret negotiations again. What's that about? – This is about massive land consumption at the expense of the rainforest for soya and genetic engineering imports to Europe. It's about cheap meat production. These are the global questions! Here we cannot sing the high song on climate protection and then actually earn Mercosur's contribution to the construction of the rainforest. These are the questions to ask. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fair trade can drive global prosperity, but it does not necessarily have to. The fact that free trade always leads to prosperity and always benefits everyone cannot be argued as natural law. The world is much more differentiated. You need to discuss opportunities and risks: What are the risks? – This is the crucial point to be discussed. Of course, free trade means increased competition. To claim that there are only companies that win globally is an illusion. No, no, no, Austria's agriculture will be under massive pressure at CETA. Of course, we know that large agricultural groups in Canada will offer much cheaper meat imports to Europe than can be produced here in Europe. That's a soft position, we know. We know that social and environmental standards will be under pressure, we know that the precautionary principle will be under pressure. All these are risks of global free trade if we do not discuss advantages and disadvantages. We know that workers' law will be under pressure, we know that a more radical location competition can be triggered. All of this must be debated within the framework of free trade agreements. This very discussion is not being held, however, and that is our criticism. Free trade is an opportunity, and free trade is a risk. But if free trade is just a focus of economic interests, and not the interests of citizens, then it is problematic, and then social democracy should wake up as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12303	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12324	Madam President. Very briefly to my previous speaker, so that we can say all of this quite clearly: The meat imports and exports are quotaed. This is not unregulated, and it would even help agriculture if it was assumed that so much meat could not be produced in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That's just how it is! They don't put themselves in reality. [[Abg. Brunner: It's not just about meat!]] Let me do so because it should serve populism and especially the FPÖ here very much likes to take this horse into consideration! Mr Klubobmann Strache, your group has pointed out that Switzerland is such a great example. I quote a statement from the Swiss State Secretariat for Economics. There it says: "The aim of Switzerland's free trade policy is to improve the framework conditions for economic relations with economically important partners. Swiss economic operators should have as stable, barrier-free and non-discrimination-free access to foreign vis-à-vis their main competitors” – be careful: foreign people! – ‘markets are provided’. [[Abg. Strache: Is that evil?]] No, no, no, But I'm telling you: There is no referendum in Switzerland on free trade. [[Abg. Street: The citizens decide on this!]] And now it's even sharper: Swiss citizens have never and never voted on this, but Switzerland even has a trade agreement with China. But now the world is going down! [[Abg. Strache: But they can!]] – You can, but they don’t! Why don't they do it? - Because the government is responsible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Unlike you, every Swiss free trade has in its DNA. I don't know what this is. Is that artificial unintelligence? What to do You here with your business programme? They shot off, don't want to trade at all and believe...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12418	Mr Klubobmann, intermediate calls are an element of parliamentary debate. I ask you, however, to be moderate in your way of expression! I call Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12436	But I am free of your populist responsibility. That's what the Federal Chancellor did. He and SPÖ Members spoke of responsibility, and at the same time, they made a binding member survey, in which 14 000 members voted on whether one is for CETA or not for CETA. – This is not a proper responsibility either, but economic responsibility is that we look to our companies to be good. A country like Austria already has 59 free trade agreements, and CETA is the best negotiated trade agreement. [[Abg. That's what nobody's saying!]] So I don't understand you. You now want to do so again before the election... [[Abg. Street: Why don't you go into the arbitrator's argument? They're just talking about the hot bitch.]] That's what I'm going to do. If you don't interrupt me, I can take care of it. [[Abg. You're just talking about the hot bridle around!]] - No, I'm not talking about the hot bridle around! – If 90 per cent of the customs duties are lost and therefore more likely to be exported for small and medium-sized engines in particular, this area is undisputed, we will be of the same opinion. However, when it comes to investment protection and, above all, to special claims rights, there is no further populist statements. – This is, in fact, a fundamental false concept! The concept of special case law is so absurd. Investment protection agreements have already been signed with 59 other countries and are already ratified and are also being implemented. [[Abg. But we have jurisdiction in the other states!]] In this respect, it also applies in particular that ICS has been clearly distinguished in relation to this jurisdiction between ISDS and now ICS. Nevertheless, you still want to make a citizen survey whether you are for CETA or not. [[Abg. No, that's wrong!]] Unlike you, we are for free trade, for growth, and not for a decommissioning. [[Abg. Strache: That's wrong again! We want a broken free trade agreement and a national jurisdiction!]] – There is no more negotiated free trade agreement. You don't need a signature for that. But they just want to do a citizen survey to get a few cents in the election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is the springing point, and it is, once again, economic nonsense, what you are spreading here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12574	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12596	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It's about direct democracy. Austria's political parties are in the National Council election campaign. It is noted that the issue of direct democracy has now been declared a key issue by the major parties. In this context, reference should be made to the fact that precisely those parties that made the last federal governments have repeatedly had the opportunity to live democracy. The fact is that direct democracy was practised only with regard to individual subjects through the consultation of the people. However, sustainable results have not been achieved. Binding would only be a referendum. However, such a vote has been only twice since 1962. For a net-paying member of the EU, a participation of the Austrian population appears to be far removed. In particular, the free trade agreements CETA and TTIP should be addressed. In addition, trade agreements are in circulation, which the population, speaking to the eligible people, will abstain. In relation to CETA, secret negotiations should be initiated, with neither persons nor data being accessible to a broad public. CETA shall be deemed to be signed, with only jurisdiction in favour of arbitration proceedings excluded from the hearing. Although TTIP and CETA have been negotiated at the same time and negotiations have begun, there is now the possibility of resumption of the TTIP negotiations. Austria's predominantly medium-sized economy, despite high quality, will hardly be able to offer a group-run economy Paroli. In the case of increased transport, the idea of environmental protection must not be ignored. Although air and shipping make a significant contribution to climate change, they are largely deprived of sanctions in the interests of the large industry, see exemption for kerosene. Before joining the EU, Austria was self-evident in its essential economic interests. With an increasing dependence on the European Union to be held by the last federal governments, free democracy has continued to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12633	The next item is the report by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12656	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The word direct democracy is a good thing for all parties, especially in election times. However, when it comes to implementation, it reminds me of the Court of Auditors' recommendations or of the debate on the Court of Auditors' reports here in the House, because everyone, how good the Court of Auditors is, always says what valuable work is being done there, but when it comes to the practical implementation of the recommendations, it hastens. I also remembered this when I heard the statements on the subject of direct democracy made by the Members of Parliament by the various parties. Direct democracy or the expansion of direct democracy is ours, the Free List of Austria – you will certainly know that I am now candidates for this list – very important and for us one of the most important and central issues. Ladies and gentlemen! We also want citizens to be genuinely involved: At the request of 100 000 voters, a binding referendum is to be carried out, so it must also be binding, and also on every subject. I remember that the FPÖ – perhaps they correct me if I am wrong; but I don't think I'm wrong – has expressed until recently that the obstacle should lie with 250 000 voters. Now we have 100 000 in the electoral programme, and see here: The FPÖ also calls for the support of 100 000 electorates to hold a referendum if they have a concern for a particular subject. – Only so much about who really is for direct democracy and who really is on the side of citizens, ladies and gentlemen! So far, there have been in the Second Republic, since popular desire – in 1964 the first popular desire was carried out – 39 popular desires, 34 of them precisely in the sense of achieving a sufficient number of support signatures necessary for the treatment in Parliament, namely 100 000. The signature mark was changed in 1981, until then 200 000 signatures were required, since then 100 000 signatures are necessary to deal with popular desire here in Parliament. But how is it treated here in Parliament? – During this legislative period, we have dealt with a number of popular desires here: It was briefly discussed, but nothing was done; a subcommittee was set up in connection with the educational population desire. The results are thin, nothing comes out of it. That is why it really needs the expansion of direct democracy, not just as a placebo, not only as an electoral campaign, but really a co-determination of the Austrians. I can also address here the popular desire to address very successful popular desire on CETA/TTIP, which has supported 562 552 people – I have also signed this popular desire. What do you say to these people? – These people have participated, have gone to the congregation office and have signed, have expressed their opinion. And what's going to do with this? - Nothing! It's shubby, ladies and gentlemen. It can't be. It is therefore high time for us to actually address the development of direct democracy. And here you are at the right address at the Free List of Austria. We honestly mean a real citizen's participation and do not just want a show policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12708	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12729	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you noticed that everyone here today is accusing each of populism, so someone says something but doesn't really take it seriously. But what if it might be true? Could be! As for the political class in this respect, which holds the establishment of direct democracy and popular decision-making, one could hear this at the opening of the Salzburg Festival. There, the opening speaker, Ferdinand von Schirach, decided to reject the referendum, called it dangerous and branded it as a playground for populists and demagogens. On the one hand, this is a superlative confession of our own superiority and, on the other hand, a very disdainful devaluation of the ordinary people, of the people of the state, as our constitution says it is the determining factor; on the other hand, it is also wrong, because the argument of populism and demagogy, which can be very easily brought to effect in direct democracy, can actually be reversed. When I look at the election struggles in representative democracies and when I look at quotations, I have to say, you can see that exactly the other way round. Politics is 95 percent staging, we have heard from the Federal Chancellor. And in fact, the appearance in media, if granted at all, depends heavily on staging. It is clear that a successful appearance is better than a bad one, but when it comes to putting Gags and Showpolitik in the foreground and not the serious, admittedly laborious exchange of arguments, then one is well lifted in today's election struggles. To use the thickness of the marshal Trivulzio that the war requires first money, second money and third money: This is also true of the elections in this country. Whoever can paving the city with posters from an economic point of view, who is able to do so, of course has a decisive advantage. This is quite different in Switzerland, which has been in use by direct democracy since 1848, i.e. for more than 150 years. First of all, it must be cheap for the Austrians, which is right for the Swisss; so I do not think that the people here are stupid than those there. Secondly, it can be observed that demagogy cannot play such a big role there, because there is – that has already been mentioned – the voting book in advance. These are also publicly funded and supported; there is the pro and there is the double. For six weeks there will be a wide discussion, where everyone can find out – this is a worthy democratic scenario. In Switzerland, the obstacles are also low: 100 000 electorates – they do not have to go to the municipal office; the authority checks it, which is very civil-friendly if it has doubts about whether it is true – 100 000 electorates can initiate a referendum, whose outcome is binding. I'm glad that You, ladies and gentlemen, of the FPÖ, who have now corrected to 100,000! Our proposal has already been effective. It would also be nice if They would announce this as a coalition condition here; then I would like to praise publicly. I mean, direct democracy makes conflicts tolerable in so far as it is discussed before conflicts and apartheid reach an extent that it is really dangerous. Direct democracy is also a cure against the loss of reality of the political class. I am immediately coming to the appearance in Brussels, which we had to see ten days ago: Mr Juncker, President of the Commission, feels the wind in the sails, and he does what an EU strategy is: She sets out facts, she considers her own strategy to be alternativesless and claims that, she says, she relies on overruns and on intimidators of skeptics. This may be efficient for a long time, but it is not democratic. And given the scope of what he has announced, that is to say, extending the euro to all countries, even if they do not want it, extending the Schengen area and a further round of enlargement, the reactions in Austria have been clumsy and impoverished; in fact, they were hardly present. I mean, that's a point that has to mean a turn. And as far as the EU is concerned: “The jar goes to the well for so long until it breaks.” – We don’t want to let it come that far. We want to intervene in advance, and that's why it's quite clear: When, if not now, should the Austrians be able to vote on their further stay in the EU? – That is why a referendum on whether Austria should continue to remain in the EU – binding! This is good for Austria, and above all it is good for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12784	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12806	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the central misunderstanding that is constantly being spread in connection with democracy? – That the majority in principle decides everything. This understanding is, in fact, the misunderstanding of radical thoughts of direct democracy, since it not only neglects minorities, but also neglects the possibilities, the fruitfulness of a plural, heterogeneous society. I would like to give you an example: Isn't it better that both are practiced and played in a kids' group that likes volleyball and football? But if you vote before the turn-hour and 51 percent of the children choose football, then you will be decided – and that's kind of a good thing – to play football in this turn-hour; you have to make a decision. In the next turn hour, football will be played again. And so à la longue, seen all year round, the volleyball players will never come to the train. It would actually be true that over the year, 51 percent of the turn-hours are played football and 49 percent volleyball. In order to achieve such a result, negotiations need to be negotiated and understanding of solutions that involve as many as possible and are useful to many. Also voting over a full year cycle within the meaning of: Do we want to play football or volleyball all year round?, that is, in the sense of direct democracy, would be completely wrong, because that would be the same wrong result. We all really belong to the minority at some point. We are a mainstream of minorities, as it is so beautiful. We should keep taking into account minorities, and this is a fruitful democracy. This understanding must be practised at all levels, i.e. at the workplace, in schools, in churches and in the parties. And with that, for example, I am at the FPÖ: Where is there direct democracy in FPÖ? – I have never heard anything about this. I'd like to see that practiced once you've talked about it. And what does it look like in the other parties? When, in what processes are minority opinions actually taken into account? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] I would like to give you a very good example, Mr Stefan: I was standing in front of the doors of the so-called small committee of inquiry last week, a committee of inquiry concerning the Federal Monumental Office, which, at my request, was first set up, which I initiated more or less. In this committee of inquiry, I also did quite useful things at the first meeting, I think. And now I'm like a bad schoolboy with a school bag full of files standing at the doors of the committee room and waiting for me to be let in, I've actually figured it out firmly – I thought it was a formal matter. [[Abg. Steinhauser: We have been working for you anyway!]] I'll wait 10 minutes, I'll wait 20 minutes and think something's wrong. Then the door will open, and I will be informed that the majority have found that I am not allowed to participate in this committee. [[Call:What majority]] That's quite interesting – which majority?, someone asked – because it's not about whether this was the majority of ÖVP and SPÖ against the others – but it's all about very strange party headquarters that make their views clear within these major parties. After that, I spoke to the representatives of the ÖVP and the SPÖ, and most of them said: We would have liked you to be there anyway, but unfortunately, our party headquarters found different! And that's what I'm saying: If we want to expand democracy, we still have a lot to do in Parliament. We can still improve much before we think about completely radical direct democratic models, which we can also think about, but which we must first practice at all levels, in schools, in churches, in the parties, in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12859	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12880	Madam President. Appreciate citizens who are there via TV or the Internet! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the legally binding nature of the joint interpretative statement on CETA has already been discussed intensively today. However, this is precisely the point that should not be dealt with in the whole subject, since the impact of the EU's comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada on the lives of people in Austria and the European Union does not determine and decide – negatively formulated – the content of the contract itself. And these content of the contract have in no way been made up or amended by this additional declaration, as for example European and economic law experts Dr. Walter Obwexer from the University of Innsbruck have already noted. Of course, it is important to be able to use the assessments of experts in this context as well. In this case, however, it is important – and this is actually a very simple situation that is understandable to every woman and man – that this paper does not change the content of the contract itself. Let me give you an example: If I take a cough juice out of the medicine cabinet at home and do not agree with the side effects described in the cough juice, the product, then I can change the cover of the cough juice according to my wishes, change it, change it, but it will not change the content of the product itself, i.e. the contract itself. This will not change a point on the cough juice, on the product itself. That this medicine, which we have to swallow here with CETA, is an extremely bitter one, I would now like to make a few points, one of which is the Joint CETA Committee itself. This body is composed of representatives of the European Union and Canada, which is to be read in Article 26.1 of the Treaty, and is not only responsible for the implementation of the Agreement itself, but can also change acts of the Treaty, the Investment Chapter, set up and suspend committees, amend Annexe, amend protocols, extend the Agreement, and, and, and. These are, therefore, far-reaching responsibilities and powers, which also do not require any democratic legitimacy by the European Parliament or national parliaments. Therefore, essential contractual content can be changed at any time without any parliamentary control. A ratification of the CETA agreement itself in this form is thus equivalent to the voluntary decision to gradually undermine our European democracies. Companies and lobbys simply win Step-by-step in power, influence, while citizens and their representatives are increasingly excluded from the design of politics, from the content itself. Another point is investment protection, which has also been mentioned many times today. Despite the changeover of the ISDS chapter to an ICS, i.e. to an Investment Court System, and more cosmetic improvements, the main criticisms of my opinion remain decided, namely: First: Foreign investors can complain against international arbitration courts – a right that domestic investors are not able to do, and that makes them worse. Environmental protection and consumer rights do not play a role in this. Secondly, Companies can sue states if they fear to suffer profit losses, for example through laws to protect people and the environment. This is also a point I do not believe we can support it. Thirdly, Governments are becoming Fear of complaints does not require laws to be passed too late or only in weakened form. Thus, environmental and consumer rights remain on the track. Fourth: Although the international arbitration courts allow companies to complain of states and thus citizens of Europe, citizens whose rights are then cut by companies have no way of defending themselves on this path. The last point is the general provision of the municipalities, which has also been presented a little weakened today, because of the fact that there would be nothing to be feared. In spite of the non-binding additional paper, however, the scope of the local authorities in the field of general care is also greatly reduced. Waste water and waste management, transport, social security, social housing, health and energy, all these are areas that are deciduously threatened by corporate complaints at local level. CETA, TTIP, TiSA, all these are instruments with which we would prescribe our incorruption. The citizens do not want this immoderateness. The popular desire was signed by 562 552 people, the popular desire against CETA, against TTIP and for more participation of the citizens themselves. So clear is this result that every representative of the people should actually know who he/she is obliged to: to the citizens and not to groups in Canada or to European lobby institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12929	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e12950	Madam President. Now I have to look at how this works with the new technology; I think, quite well. [[The speaker places a picture showing a container ship on the speaker's desk.]] It is a historic day, and this discussion takes place on the very day of the child. At this point, I would like to congratulate all mothers, single mothers and families on the excellent performance they provide for this state through well-speaked children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We are discussing exactly in this debate about the future of our children and grandchildren, I believe that this must be much clearer, but at the same time it confirms how far politics has gone from the people. I think it's self-described if one contains 1,500 pages of contract text to the people, because you think you have to pre-decid everything and serve it all ready. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I am very concerned that today a representative of the government parties has already spoken about the importance of export and how he ensures our prosperity. I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Minzig, who is fighting blindly for liberalisation, for free trade, and in Upper Austria side by side, with a photo: ‘Region is awesome’. – So this is a double-landing thing to afford, the citizens to deceive the people in this way; here is the limitless liberalisation and at home regionality. [[Congratulations to Members Pirklhuber and Treasure]] This is, I think, very significant for these EIAs. We had a panel discussion in Lower Austria yesterday. President Strasser is stagnant – we did not know what he was talking about. I believe that the President of the Federal Farmers' Party should also say a clear word about regional agriculture. – No, the ÖVP has long forgotten the farmers, it serves the corporations, the limitless lobbyism, and that is the problem of this government. Because consumers are also the punishers, the consumers who, due to the lack of food labelling, receive these foods in advance or are offered for sale: Who of you, colleagues and colleagues, has read the Group Atlas? I think this is a mandatory reading for those dealing with free trade so that we know what we are creating here with this blind predator capitalism. The cheapest workers in this world are the Indian tea pickers who get 25 dollars a month, 12 of them being deducted for the bamboo hut or straw hut in which they are allowed to sleep. Because Minister Rupprechter is sitting there – I hope we can still discuss this today –: Yes, of course, the value added and the export is so important when you import from India and China – therefore the agrana there needs fruit sugar plants – apple juice concentrate, which then beautifully fills in and exports into Austrian packages! – If the value added is to be, I say that is fraud, including our international trading partners. Thus we endanger the red-white-red brand, the red-white-red quality. We've been out of food sovereignty for a long time. We can no longer feed our population and talk about export needs. Where are they? The same happens in many other sectors, including colleagues. We must look to reality with all clarity, otherwise we will be saddened by the future of children and grandchildren. If it is then said that of ten euro earned, six euros are earned with export, then we have to question that there is no point in crossing and driving across. This is environmental policy, that is climate policy, that is asylum policy. 85 percent of refugees are economic refugees. Palm oil was called. I repeat: We destroy the home of the population there, we will of course also destroy the habitats of the wildlife, the climate, the environment – as well as our domestic agriculture, we are endangering our tourism, which is very essential. Finally, I should like to say: I made a request on direct democracy last year after our trip to Berlin, opening the committees. As you have voted, ladies and gentlemen, consider it. The government parties, the FPÖ – all voted against. You don't want direct democracy, you want to stretch it just now before the elections. We want live, real bureaucracy, ah, democracy, because we no longer have democracy in front of loud bureaucracy – that was a joyous promise that brings it exactly to the point. We want to involve the people, we want a People's Movement, we want the people to participate actively in politics for five years, so that it can vote and not abuse it every five years for a crusade, as it is now done by the government parties, so that it will have to watch again for five years what happens to its money. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Citizens pay the money they can work with, and politics has the greatest task of involving the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13032	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13054	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very special feeling, the first time in a completely new room, in a new hall – also with a new list, but this is not the most important thing – to talk to you. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Rädler:... the last time!]] – Yes, that would be the wish of the Austrian People’s Party that there is no more opposition in this House that there is no control in this House anymore. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This would be the wish of the Austrian People's Party that, from autumn onwards, it will not be clarified what the role of the ÖVP was at Eurofighter, that from autumn onwards it will not be clarified what was the role of the ÖVP at Buwog, Telekom and many others, that, from autumn onwards, no information persons such as Exbundeschanzler Schüsel and many others will be loaded. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] – No, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the Austrian Parliament needs teeth, and the Austrian Parliament will be on the 15th. On October 1st, a very, very good bite gets back. The voters will certainly inform you about this, about the electoral paper and about it in the root book. But now on TTIP, CETA and on the subject: This is a decision that Members and parties in this House have made very different. ÖVP and NEOS have reasons why they are for TTIP, CETA and JEFTA. They are in favour of replacing independent justice with corporate justice – they should only say it openly. They are in favour of replacing a freely elected parliamentary democracy with political group decisions and corporate legislation – they should only say it openly. If you read Sebastian Kurz's tax concepts, you will find the answer: This is the candidate of the Group, and TTIP, JEFTA and CETA are the agreements of the Group. That's all right, that makes sense, that's all a package. If you buy briefly, you get turquoise painted black and TTIP, CETA and JEFTA. This is a very clear point, and there should be no illusions about it. The fact that it is similar with NEOS only plays a subordinate role. A crucial point for me, however, is the following: It is no coincidence that the Federal Chancellor is no longer here. The Federal Chancellor is never present when it comes to these major treaties, at risk of democracy, concerning the interests of the Republic of Austria, our independent justice and our democracy. The Federal Chancellor is not there because he does not know if he is willing and whether he is able to represent the interests of the Republic. That's the problem: He likes to do it, but he can't stop it. This is the situation of the Federal Chancellor. This is a dilemma for him personally, but for the Republic of Austria this can be a very, very serious damage, and we must preserve the Republic from this damage. One last word on the debate on democracy: I do not understand the NEOS colleagues at all. How can you say that the Austrians are not mature, are they not able to find out whether they are in favour of it or against it because they have too little information? How do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what the Austrians have about information? Why do you simply call them the possibility and the willingness to inform yourself? Just because you believe that the result of a direct democratic decision does not correspond to your wishes and ideas, or to those of the international group, you cannot simply say that people are not ready to vote directly democratically! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I can't do that. The next time you say that the Members are not mature enough and have not understood a certain law, and that is why we must no longer vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] If I look at certain political groups at times, I am still not sure whether all of them really understood their own laws, but that is not an argument for putting Parliament or democracy out of power. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] No, it is our duty to represent the interests of the Republic of Austria, it is our duty to inform people as well and as serious as possible, and it is our duty to let people in the Republic of Austria decide fairly and openly in a popular survey, at which outcome policy will hopefully follow. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] If you don't allow that, then it'll be 15th. A decision will be made on this; I look forward to it with great confidence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13145	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:10:48]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13167	We'll be up to date. European hours on the subject: ‘Stop for glycosate in Europe: No poison on our plates!” The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in this current European hour: by the SPÖ Club: Karin Kadenbach; from the ÖVP Club: Heinz Becker; from the FPÖ Club: Harald Vilimsky; from the Green Club: Vice-President of the European Parliament Mag. Ulrike Lunacek; from NEOS Club: Dr. Angelika Mlinar. I welcome Members to the European Parliament in our midst. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The theme of our current European hour is “Stop for Glyphosate in Europe: No poison on our plates!” So it's about glyphosate. What's that? – It is the world’s most commonly used plant protection product, saying it’s a poison. How does this poison work? – After applying to the soils, it also passes through sicker waters, surface waters into the groundwater, so it ends up on our plate and in the water. For aquatic organisms it is fatal, and numerous studies confirm: It's probably carcinogenic for people – I'll come back later on. Why do we want to focus on this now? – The authorisation at European level for this poison expires at the end of this year, and it is now decided – the Commission has presented a proposal – that it will be extended for another ten years. We Greens don't want another ten years of poison on our tellers, that's why the question is: How is the Federal Government, how is Austria positioning itself, and does this Parliament decide whether there will be poison on the tellers or not? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The green access to this is: Let us take a look at the facts! There are numerous studies that indicate a wide range of dangers; as has been said, groundwater, in human urine, it has been demonstrated, also in bread and recently also in beer – this obviously concerns many. [[Abg. Kogler: Beer!]] The WHO's International Cancer Research Agency has said that it is probably carcinogenic, but this organisation is not an approval authority when it comes to the decision. The Authority, which now decides or is the regulatory authority, is the Authority in the European Union, and that authority has taken over the opinion of the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment. If you look at these opinions: It was only recently discovered that 100 pages are one-to-one written off, by Monsanto, a chemical group. [[Abg. Kogler: Sourry!]] Monsanto's written down, Monsanto's been manipulated. Mr Minister of Agriculture, you said today that we must wait for this to happen until it is clarified. – There is nothing to wait for, such methods are to be stopped! There is a need for a proper authorisation procedure representing the interests of the population and in which not one of the chemical companies is depreciated. [[Call the Greens: So it is!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] 96 scientists from 25 countries have decided to reject this procedure by the Authority. Yes, one can, of course, ignore science – we see it in part in the case of climate change, even here in the house; if one takes science seriously, it is not quite clear at best whether glyphosate is carcinogenic or not. As I said, science says: most likely cancer-stimulating. But even if, as I have said, it would only be unclear in the best case, in Austria and in the European Union, there is a very great guide to the policy, which has to be decided, namely the precautionary principle; we have already discussed this in the previous debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] The precautionary principle states that not only must damage occur and those affected do not have to prove that a chemical group like Monsanto has harmed them, but Monsanto must first prove that his product is not dangerous to human health. This precautionary principle must be observed, as has been said, in Europe and in Austria, this is what makes our legal system here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The precautionary principle is also enshrined in the Austrian Plant Protection Act, so according to Austrian law glyphosate should not be allowed at all. You nodd, Mr Minister – then I wonder why you have not decided for a long time. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] So, now the question arises what Austria has done so far. We Greens have made x requests since 2011, where we point to these dangers in which we point out what is to be done in Austria to reduce pesticides, but also to ensure that a clear position is taken at European level. [[Keeping several documents in height]] The Minister has so far abstained in the votes of the vote. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] Today you say in an issue that everything must be science-based. I'm wondering now: Does it have to be proved that this is carcinogenic, or does the precautionary principle apply and do we decide right now? It is in policy that we have to decide, which must also take responsibility for the health of the population, and not other institutions. I want to say that we Greens want there to be no poison on people in Austria and Europe over the next ten years, and that is why we now have to decide. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This cannot be a decision other than a clear no from Austria for further approval of glycosate throughout Europe. The whole thing is a deadly cycle: We are now issuing poison in the fields, the plants are becoming more resistant, so we need stronger poison – and at some point, that's safe, the whole thing ends up in our bodies. There is another aspect: Glyphosate kills almost everything, just one thing: genetically modified plants. Thus, those who promote glyphosate support not only the chemical industry, but also the genetic engineering industry. Whoever decides to choose Glyphosate is on the side of the genetic engineering companies; whoever decides against Glyphosate is really on the side of farmers, because it is also health threatening. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Those who opt for glyphosate are on the side of the agrochemical industry; those who are against glyphosate are on the side of consumers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Whoever is for glyphosate is for profit of corporations; who is against glyphosate is for the health of the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we want is an agriculture that can produce healthy food for all of us; it is an agriculture that can live on from what it produces. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – It is also about the health of farmers, Mr Minister; nor is it great if they come into contact with this poison every day. To this end we need a pesticides reduction plan, the use of pesticides must be reduced; Glyphosate is not the only pesticides, but we have to start with the most urgent now and immediately, and that is: Now reduce glycosate to zero. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] We have heard that the SPÖ has made an attempt in the Council of Ministers today. We therefore welcome the fact that you agree with the requests we will make. We will also take the FPÖ with the floor, which has indeed made skeptical statements on glyphosate to the NGOs. But we also invite everyone else to join us now to ensure that the use of glyphosate, i.e. the production of poison, is put to an end in Europe so that our agriculture can live well, produce well and we all have healthy food on our plates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13364	Mr Rupprechter spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13385	Mr President! High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The Austrians can continue to rely in the future on the fact that no poison lands on their plate, but on high-quality, qualitative food. Our farmers work 365 days a year hard to ensure that the supply of high-quality food is guaranteed. I must say that it is unfortunate and obviously due to the election campaign, that it is being tried here to beat political change with a very sensitive issue and to insure the people. [[Abg. Brunner: You're bringing this into the election campaign!]] – Mrs Brunner, this is not responsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We are aware of how sensitive this issue is, both for farmers and for the general population. [[Abg. Kogler: Where else should we give it? In your secret chamber?]] That is why I would like to try, Mr Kogler, to bring some substance into this debate, because that is exactly what people expect: responsible politics, science-based and objective, and not that a fundamentally negative mood for Austrian agriculture is generated from the belly, as you, Mrs Brunner, have just done. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Wasn't it!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Inconceivable! Where do you want them to see it? In your secret chamber?]] You all, ladies and gentlemen, know – Mr Kogler, if you listen to me, you may also understand it better: The authorisation of plant protection products shall be subject to the following conditions: This is not a policy decision, it should be a science-based decision based on expert bodies. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is your political understanding!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] The Minister of Health does not decide on the authorisation of a heart drug, but will rely on her experts, and this applies equally to the extension of the authorisation of an active substance, for example in the field of plant protection. [[Abg. Kogler: But decide does a group where you sit inside!]] Like medicines, plant protection products at European level – and we have approved such a European authorisation procedure – are professionally, scientifically based. Many experts from the European Food Safety Authority EFSA, the European Chemicals Agency ECHA and the scientific institutions of all Member States, including the AGES, the Austrian Food Safety Agency, examine whether an active substance meets the strict European authorisation requirements, on the basis of industry and independent science documents. Only if, after these technical assessments, it can be clearly assumed that there is no risk – and here we are in the precautionary principle, we agree – for human and animal health or the environment, does the Commission propose an approval at all. Formal – and we already have to leave the cow in the stable – is a Commission decision after consultation of the relevant expert bodies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] You know this very well, or you should know it at least if you put this topic on the tapet here: Formal law is a Commission decision, a Commission Implementing Regulation. What we are currently present is a draft, a proposal for this Commission Implementing Regulation. [[Abg. Kogler: But ministers can stop it!]] [[Abg. Brunner: If you want!]] You know very well that this will not be decided in the Council of Agriculture Ministers, nor in the Council of Health Ministers, but will be decided by the European Commission after consulting an expert committee. Austria is represented in this Committee of Experts of the European Commission by experts from the Agency for Health and Food Safety, the AGES. And the AGES is a joint institution of the Minister of Health – unfortunately, it is not here today – and my department and internationally very much considered both in the pharmaceutical sector and in the plant protection sector. I have full confidence in the experts of the AGES. You also know that the AGES has given the European Commission certain conditions for approval. Since 2016, the Austrian demands for certain restrictions on the application of glyphosate have been known. One of the main restrictions that we have always called for here is, for example, the prohibition of a comprehensive allocation, pre-harvesting treatment. This is already prohibited in Austria, and we demand this in Europe before we can even think of giving our consent. [[Abg. Kogler: Without us you wouldn't have done this anyway!]] You also know that the AGES has already announced several times that Austria will not agree to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance glyphosate if the European Commission does not take into account Austrian requirements. All these steps have been publicly and transparently informed by the AGES. For example, several round tables were held with representatives from science, non-governmental organisations, trade, representatives of interests, industry and producers, in order to keep up-to-date information on current developments on this subject and to intensify the Austrian position. And you also know that the AGES has already made it clear and also announced that it would not agree to the current proposal for an extension of the authorisation, precisely because the Austrian requirements are not taken into account. That is why it is unfortunately due to the election campaign if it is now called for the rejection of a proposal to which Austria would anyway not agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Dear honourable Members, it is important for me to point out: This authorisation procedure must be based on a scientific and technical basis. [[Abg. Kogler: No!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is a difference!]] Therefore, the AGES has so far examined all new aspects and allegations and also forwarded them to the European Commission for its opinion, including the latest criticism presented by you, according to which the Federal Institute for Risk Assessment – that is the German Reference Institute – and which EFSA had written off its assessment on applications for authorisation from the applicants. It was immediately forwarded to the Commission with the request for a comprehensive opinion and for full information. Plagiat accusations, as they stand here in the room, are very serious, and no decision can be made at all until this has been fully clarified. [[Abg. Kogler: Eben!]] I would like to say quite clearly: We and the AGES have done excellent work, the public has been transparently informed on all steps. At this point I would like to thank especially the AGES staff and express my full confidence to them and to them, because the work has so far been excellent. Finally, I should like to sum up once again that there is a call for the rejection of a proposal to which Austria would not have agreed anyway. It is unfortunate that there is obviously an attempt to change the subject of political change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Brunner: Do you refuse?]] Mrs Brunner, the Greens have the mushroom at the moment, and other parties have the FLÖ. This makes a little nervous, I understand, but we should really stay here and do things in peace, as they are planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13622	We are continuing the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour should not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13647	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! On behalf of the colleague Karin Greiner, I should like to welcome a group of Gratwein-Straßengl as one of the first groups of visitors to our house. [[General condolences.]] Mr Minister, from my point of view, you are making it a little easy, for a very simple reason: If you say that we are against it, there is a fundamental difference to what is required. It's a difference if you say: We want to limit the use of glyphosate, the possibilities that exist in agriculture to use glyphosate; or whether you say we want to ban glyphosate as a substance. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Bravo, that's right!]] This is a fundamentally different discussion. If you push over the responsibility in the health field, I have to say: You know that the area of the AGES, which is responsible for the evaluation, is assigned to your home and is bound by direction and surprisingly on 18th. An opinion on the subject was delivered on 1 September. [[Abg. Kogler: And bound!]] I think we should talk in principle about what we want. We can't always make ourselves on the one hand and say we want to be the model country as far as organic farming is concerned – the word "Finskosladen Österreich" – and on the other hand, we want Glyphosate to continue to be applied. I think, and you have said it very well, that we want to produce quality food – and this is what our farmers do. In my opinion, there is now a contradiction between quality food production and glyphosate. We need to look at the following: The use of glyphosate has taken on a dimension that results in each of us having glyphosate in his body. It is now the question whether we want such products in our food. We cannot always shift responsibility to any experts, but we also bear political responsibility there, and we also have to assume this political responsibility. I also have the discussion on drinking water, for example. Of course, we know that the limit for glycosate in drinking water is one that is at the limit of detection. But if we recall the debate at the nitrate, we know that we have high nitrate entries through agriculture. On the other hand, we play the ball to those who prepare the drinking water, because they have to make sure to provide drinking water that does not contain nitrate. It can't work like this. We live in a chained world. That means what comes into the ground first comes out on the other side. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] We need to see before that nothing comes in if we want clean drinking water. It's the same with the food. If we want foods that are high quality, then we need to look ahead to seeing that no pesticides come in. Mrs Brunner said it right: Certain plants that are resistant to glyphosate have been deliberately bred, genetically manipulated so that they can be passed over with glyphosate and have the harvest yields. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We know that we have taken a pioneering role in Austria – and this is exactly what it is all about. We have banned the sikkation in certain areas. That's exactly what it's all about: I think we should take this pioneering role seriously, because we know that if we don't, we'll get the whole shit back on our plates. - Excuse me! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] When we see these studies, the evidence of glycosate in beer: Where does that come from? – We know that our brewers are only marginally burdened with glycosate. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: There is no such thing!]] But we also know: Through global trade, these goods come to us, and if we want to appear credible abroad, then we must work to ensure that this ban is pronounced. We now have the historic opportunity to do this. We should take a clear stance here, as many other countries have already done before us. That would be the SPÖ's wish. We will also support you in this, if you do so. Just to say: We want to limit the application areas and therefore we are of the same opinion!, does not work. No, we have a diametrically opposed opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13752	Mr Ing. Schultes is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13774	Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Exciting theme – great confusion. Why is that so? [[Abg. Kogler: Because you're on the side of the big ones, the corporations!]] – Because with the subject of glyphosate we have clearly drawn a theme from the international campaign field to us and talk about things that are not so happening in us. First: There is no culture plant in Austria that is treated with glyphosate, so there can be no residues of glycosate in Austrian food either. That's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's going to be checked. That's being examined, we're investigating it ourselves. [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich.]] You can ask the AGES! In their reports you will see and read that all studies show that both the food and the water are free of glyphosate, that there are no degradation products of it either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] All of this is all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They will surely believe this, because our wife's Minister of Health Pamela Rendi-Wagner was for many years chairman of a sub-organisation of the AGES responsible for medications. Every medicine you take has a stamp on her. Glyphosate has been studied using the same methods of investigation, according to the same standards – even much more so in the glyphosate. If you trust to take an aspro, you don't need to fear glyphosate because the same scientists have found that this is unproblematic in Austria. There you can claim what you want, that's it. Why is this such a big public theatre now? Why are so many on it? [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you all right? – Because I take the Aspro voluntarily and don’t take the glyphosate!]] There's a problem: Glyphosate has been approved for many, many years and has expired as a patent. Today there are many companies that can do this cheaply, and it is basically just like the medications. We know that there are cheap new drugs that help us reduce our cost in the health system. [[Abg. Kogler: But I take the Aspro voluntarily!]] It's the same with the glyphosate. There are many companies that are now putting this on the market, and those who have invented it are no longer doing the business with it. That's a long time from Monsanto. Those who are now doing with Monsanto Theater really open the way for those who want to sell us something else that is certainly more expensive and certainly more problematic. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Matznetter.]] I'm afraid so. The question now is: How do we get to grips with the subject? We have defined our agriculture in Austria in such a way that we do not apply glyphosate to crops. Why do we need it anyway? [[Abg. Brunner: Because it doesn't last the plants!]] – Because we have developed humus-saving, land-saving agriculture with our programme and, unlike many countries in Europe, we already have plants outside today that are to stand over the winter to keep the earth that nitrates are to keep – Markus, this is a topic! – and should have died next spring if it is cold enough. [[in the direction of the Abg. Vogl]] If it's not cold enough, we need a help, and there's glyphosate the help because glyphosate makes no difference and stops every green plant. Well, then we can grow what's important. [[Abg. Kogler: That sounds very healthy!]] The topic is: We'll have to do it. There are colleagues who have committed themselves to refrain from such plant protection products. What are they doing in spring? – They go over with a floor processing device, once, twice, three times, until the uncrowds are gone, because we don't need them on the field, as much as they are. Then comes the rain in the spring, the earth is going down, and now such colleagues are in front of the judge because they have suffered damages. As a chamber, we help them because we have experience to gain. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is stupid!]] – That’s the reality. Of course, we can speak well and say: We don't need that, and we don't need it. However, we should leave the way for a reasonable practice. Austria has a reasonable practice, and we would like this practice to take a broad place in Europe. That's all. Let's get on with it. We're residue-free. We have the best quality on the plate. We have no problems. [[Intercessions by the honourable Members and Heinisch-Hosek.]] The word poison is not entitled. The only thing that is toxic may be the hortines, mycotoxins, maybe some weed plant, perhaps the blue iron hat. These are dangerous things. What we deliver is all right. The most important thing to demand here is that we finally get a good designation of origin for food such as meat and eggs, because if they are from Austria, everyone is sure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] And if you want to help us help the Austrians, please help us know where the food comes from, because we are clean. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13922	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e13943	Mr President. I would like to thank you in advance for having the opportunity to speak here. I would also like to thank someone else very much: my group, which today has dealt with incredibly important issues, namely the issue of international trade agreements, CETA, in order to ensure that the trade agreement with Japan is also linked to TTIP and JEFTA. Some of this debate I would like to talk about because the background to these international trade agreements and to the current glyphosate debate are in reality the same. I am glad that there is also a definition on the part of the liberals that CETA acceptance can only take place through a binding referendum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is crucial for people and for voters to know who stands for those who stand for food safety, who advocates that the domestic agricultural industry can also have a good future, and who may represent interests of others, such as multinational groups. In other words, I cannot explain why, on an international level, trade agreements are being drawn up with such an opaque, opaque rear-room policy and people do not vote in favour of them. The same story exists on the subject of Glyphosate, which is currently under discussion, where it is all the more serious that the European Food Safety Authority takes over 100 sides of its assessment of this herbicide one to one by means of copy-and-paste from that which makes it profit, namely from Monsanto. If I had been the responsible Commissioner, responsible or otherwise, this authority would have been dissolved, without discussion, but at the level of the European Commission this obviously does not matter, because the Commissioner has also agreed that this is not carcinogenic, and has taken over this Monsanto argument. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] – That’s not how it can be done! That is exactly the point I would like to draw attention to today, namely the interplay of lobbyism and decision-making at international level. We have 751 mandates from 28 countries in the European Parliament. If I could, half would be enough, as it would be a good signal of savings and the European Parliament would be much more effective – that is another debate. These 751 mandaters face 11 000 lobby organizations and 25,000 to 30 000 lobbyists. This means that 25 to 30 lobbyists are participating in the decision-making process, which in part have privileged access to the Commission, which can enter and enter into the European Parliament with its own badge and participate in the creation of will. - That can't be! As a parliamentarian, I have chosen a very simple way, which I meet from the lobbyism field and who does not: I don't even meet anyone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not want to be the one who can get money from those who have a purely economic interest to click on anything, but we, as a liberal, try to cover the picture of opinion in its sum and to serve non-prepared amendments or other initiatives in the field of lobbyism. You know exactly how it goes. This European Food Safety Authority, which we have already had as a negative example today, has been in a massive debate for five, six, seven years, because the members of the Board of Directors of this Authority were in part simultaneously in the supervisory boards of the international food groups. I wonder, How can you accept that? On the other hand, how can we try to open an objective debate and accept such abuses? Two weeks ago, a vote was held in the European Parliament for greater transparency in order to establish the so-called legal footprint accordingly, in order for each representative to be obliged to disclose which lobbyists he had or did not contact in the course of a decision-making process. Who voted day-to-day? – The ÖVP! No wonder! - Yeah, you don't believe it. [[Abg. New builder: I don't believe that now!]] However, it is everywhere in this short-term RDP, which here says different than it does at international level. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unheard!]] In short, it is here and says that it is in favour of an unconditional termination of the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. One more sentence, Mr President. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - Who is against it? – ÖVP Secretary-General Köstinger! It's just like the subject of glyphosate. This policy of the many black tongues must be rejected! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14019	The next speech comes from the Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mrs Mag. Lunacek.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14053	Have a nice day! First of all, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to take part in this new room at this first meeting. For the next few years I will be here more often – I also look forward to it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But maybe to my previous speaker: For Mr Vilimsky, it is more often so that he misses the subject. I find it very strange that he brings in things that are not on the agenda here. This is about the use of glyphosate in Austrian agriculture. We have heard from the two speakers of the ÖVP, Mr Schultes and Mr Rupprechter, exactly what is the problem of the ÖVP. Minister Rupprechter is also Minister for the Environment and Agriculture. We've noticed the greens before, that this just doesn't fit together. Mr Schultes has now said quite clearly that agriculture needs glyphosate, not for the plants, but glyphosate is not applied to the plants, but to the weeds before. And you, Mr Minister, said quite clearly first that the Austrians can rely on the fact that there is no poison in our food. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Can you also!]] That's just not right! You have the problem that you are constantly enslaving between the environment and agriculture and then tending to be much more on the side of agriculture. After all, I see – also addressed to Mr. Schultes – the farmer's federal newspaper from time to time, and I do so, I already see a lot of advertisements from chemical companies in it. To this end, I am not surprised that the EIA – including in the government – has no clear position and that you, Mr Minister, have not made any clear statement today that you will call on the AGES to vote against any new authorisation or extension of the approval of glyphosate at the next meeting of the Standing Committee in Brussels. You didn't do that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The AGES – you know that better than I do, but I know that too – is wise. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Did you not listen to me what I said?]] The AGES is bound by direction. In other words, you are the Minister responsible, together with Mrs Rendi-Wagner, and you are not prepared to say quite clearly here and now: We do not want a poison on our counters, and quite clearly to say that Austria will not only abstain from the vote, but will actually vote against the extension. – That’s what must be! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you do not want to listen to the Greens, then listen to what the European Parliament has said by a large majority. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter]] ==References== In April 2016, the majority of the European Parliament voted in favour of no further authorisation of glyphosate. At least listen to the majority in the European Parliament! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] You yourself were in the Commission, you know how important the European Parliament is, then listen to it and don't pretend you don't want it anyway! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Brunner has already mentioned the precautionary principle, which is contained in the primary Treaties of the European Union, and you know that: Environmental and health hazards must not be expected, but must be avoided preventively. The precautionary principle is aimed at avoiding risk and not at saying that when the risk occurs: Well, let's take a look, and then we'll do something about it afterwards! The precautionary principle applies in the European Union. You should know that, and you, as Minister of the Environment, should apply it every time! [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: You did not listen to me!]] That is why once again the request to you that you give the AGES the order to vote against the renewal of the authorisation at the next meeting whenever it is on the agenda, and not just to abstain and re-enslave between the environment and agriculture, because that is what you are doing all the time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've got to get to the end. We Greens, not yet, but my fellow Members, who are already in the National Council, are planning to convene the EU Subcommittee, which will then have to take place within 14 days, that is, before the next meeting of the Standing Committee in Brussels, and to request a binding opinion from you, so that you, you and Mrs Rendi-Wagner, may ask the AGES to vote as the majority of the Austrian population would like. I hope that since the SPÖ will join us, the reasonables in the ÖVP – perhaps there are a few – will join us. I hope that the assurance of the liberals they have already given to the various civil society organisations, environmental organisations, will also hold that they will also vote against the extension of the authorisation of glyphosate. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, soon you will have the opportunity to bind the two ministers and make it clear that in the future there will be no glyphosate in Austria, no poison on the tellers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14175	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14196	Mr President. High house! There is a current European hour, and the most important European question for the Greens is not immigration, is not border security, is not Brexit, is not the Austrian Presidency next year, but is glyphosate. [[Abg. Kogler: Consumer Protection! Food safety!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] This debate about the remission of glyphosate is conducted with a maximum of emotions and with a minimum of facts. [[Congratulations with Neos and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is unnecessary polemics!]] Horror messages are being spread, colleague Vogl has spoken of the glyphosate in beer and shows that you have to drink 1,000 liters on the day so that it is health-aware. [[Abg. Belakovich: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But this is a challenge!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] You can't even do this with water, let alone beer. [[Call to the Greens: This is ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Cynic!]] Yes, and the latest Sau, driven by the village, is the claim that the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment would have been written off by Monsanto and that is why the assessment has failed. Thousands of pages this Federal Institute for Risk Assessment in Germany has evaluated all possible studies – that is all open, all transparent and nothing is new. All these studies conclude that according to current knowledge, the glyphosate should not be considered as carcinogenic; namely, the European Food Safety Authority EFSA, the US Environmental Authority EPO, the Canadian assessment authority Pest Management Regulatory Agency, the Australian assessment authority Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority, the Japanese Food Safety Commission, the New Zealand EPO, the Joint FAO/WHO Meeting on Pesticide Residues and the European Chemical Agency ECHA. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Brunner:... Monsanto! That's what I've been talking about.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Because everyone in the circle is writing down, and the first spring is that of Monsanto!]] And then Mr Brunner says that you can ignore science – and she can do it! Usually, the critics argue that everything is secret and is being negotiated behind closed doors. Now it's transparent and now it doesn't fit you again. [[Abg. Kogler: Now we know why you do not understand the precautionary principle!]] This Federal Institute for Risk Assessment was founded at the time on the initiative of the German Greens, and it was so long right for them when the results that came out fit the Greens ideologically into the Kram, and when that comes out, what they don't fit in with their political stuff, it doesn't count at all. [[Congratulations with Neos and ÖVP.]] You also said, colleague Brunner, that glycosate would be highly carcinogenic. [[Abg. Kogler: Suspect of cancer-stimulating she said!]] In reality, within WHO, the IARC says that there is limited evidence – that is not the same as highly carcinogenic; there is only limited evidence. [[Abg. Brosz: A little cancer-stimulating is always okay for the NEOS, isn't it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] It makes sense, and this is what we support, to limit private use. Of course, it is not good for any layman to use a means of not knowing enough about their effects, while in the agricultural sector strict rules are linked to when and how to use it at all. It is measured by two measures, you pour out the child with the bath and would ban everything in Bausch and Arch. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You are already extreme!]] There is an invitation to the government to take action to introduce restrictions in the private sector, but not in the agricultural and industrial sectors. [[Abg. Kogler: Chemical companies! Agricultural groups!]] The fact is not as the Greens say, namely that there is a consensus that there would be cancer-stimulating products, but there are even differences of opinion within the WHO in this regard. When used properly, it is an acceptable plant protection product. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is an appropriate use?]] – If you comply with the requirements that a private person does not have today. [[Abg. Brunner: That reminds of Trump!]] Therefore, it would be appropriate to leave the church in the village, to focus on the facts and not just to withdraw a campaign for the campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14453	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14475	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely felt so little sense of responsibility on a subject that concerns plant poison as much as you do, Mr Minister. I am relatively disappointed and would like to put some facts on the paper at the beginning. If you say, I can guarantee that the Austrians do not have to worry that poison is in their food!, I will tell you: Very well, many people in Austria are now worried that they find food on their plates, which has long-term effects – and that is exactly what has been found: it could be that carcinogenic substances have come into our food chain – to bring along late consequences. Just like you all, I don't want my grandson to suffer, for example, one of these late episodes. A second fact: The responsibility for pesticides and herbicides, for plant poison, lies with you, Mr. Federal Minister, and will not give up on the EU Commission's wardrobe somewhere, as you have said before. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let me tell you one more fact: Until late night and even this morning there has been great efforts by the Minister of Health, together with you, No negotiating glyphosat. It didn't work! There has once again become quite obvious this inconsistency which you, as the Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, have repeatedly shown. It is the agricultural lobby, it is the large corporations that I hear from your remarks, from the remarks of Mr Schule and from the statements made by the new chairman. In short, says: We do not make the political decisions, the experts should do that! At some point, however, one has to make a political decision when it comes to the health of the population in Austria. If even the slightest suspicion is that this health could be at risk, then you have the responsibility to take over and not, as has been said, hand it over to any wardrobe! But what are we talking about? – Since 1971, this plant poison has been authorised, and it will be used [[Intervening calls from MEPs Neubauer and Loacker]] 2 billion € turnover per year made. Now there's just a 66-billion deal, whether one company takes over the other. That's not so important, but just so you know what dimensions it's about. There are many imitators who distribute this plant poison – Roundup is the most famous brand. We don't really have the opportunity to ask hobby gardeners about how they don't use this roundup properly or better. We also need to think of farmers who work with these means, perhaps even several times a year – there are three phases in which to apply this glyphosate – because these could be dangerous to health. It is precisely those we need to support by allowing them to leave and by clearly expressing this no to this ticking time bomb glyphosat. The World Health Organization, the International Cancer Research Agency, and not only this, but also for many years – you must not say this and deny it – also scientists from various fields, including NGOs, are dealing with this issue and presenting studies – they are of course immediately being exposed to complaints by these large corporations, that is quite clear – in which it can also be found that this substance is carcinogenic that animals die that this poison enters groundwater, that this glycosate enters the food chain; that is clear for a long time now. We do not want to take note of the AGES, as you said before, of an official personal license, and we want you to work with us to prevent glyphosate from being banned and not to support any extension in the EU Commission. I believe that it is important to show responsibility now and not to push ahead, Mr. Federal Minister – not you, Mr. Kurz, not the entire ÖVP – because it is about the health of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14548	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14569	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would also like to take part in this debate, which has been led by the espionage or election, but would like to contribute to the clarification. It is true that glyphosate is a highly used total herbicide worldwide. However, Mrs Lunacek, I would also like to clarify briefly the following: Glyphosate acts on the plant and not above the ground. The plant absorbs glyphosate, which changes the cycle of substances and causes the plant to die. Glyphosate is applied to the soil quickly reduced by microorganisms.To bring some facts: Where is this glycosate used? – In small gardens and, of course, in agriculture. But where in agriculture? – No farm uses Glyphosate, only farms need it from time to time when it comes to erosion protection. Each farmer is trying to achieve the control of weeds as best as possible by mechanical and mechanical methods. Sometimes, however, the weather does not allow intermediate fruits that prevent flooding and erosion to die. And that's where we need this glyphosate. I think we're on a very good path: The AGES has studied this scientifically and notes that if glycosate is used properly, human beings, animals and the environment do not harm it. I ask the following: What do we have these agencies for if we do not give them faith? This can only be a sign that these discussions are only taken out of the belly. I also support the AGES proposal to the European Commission: We all know that by the end of the year, the European Commission must put forward a proposal for an extension. The AGES has clearly stated that we in Austria will only agree if certain conditions are met. This includes the sikkation that has been banned by us since 2013. What does Sikkation mean? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It's called dead-spraying! Tossing of cereals! Tossing!]] That's exactly the point when we're talking about poison on the plate. Only when a mature grain is contaminated with glyphosate could the food chain reach the consumers. This is excluded in Austria. The studies clearly show that it could not be demonstrated in groundwater and that only 2 percent of the food glyphosate has been found, where the origin could not be determined exactly, so it can also be imported goods. [[Abg. Brunner: That's not true!]] In Austria, consumers really do not need to worry because Austrian farmers are really very, very careful about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Why don't we forbid it if we don't need it?]] Farmers will be subject to very strict controls, and farmers will have to make plant protection training courses in this respect. They themselves are very much behind it – as we say so beautifully – that they must use as little as possible from these herbicides. For that they are so behind it and can offer our consumers more or less really the best, high-quality, regional products, I thank all farmers. Finally, I would like to say a few words: Paracelsus already said the dose makes the poison. It is as it was addressed, even aspirin in large quantities is poison. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is a huge difference!]] [[Abg. Kogler: There is no forced aspirin in the water and in the beer!]] There too it is: Consumers should not be insecured by this electoral debate. I want consumers not to be unsure and we believe in science, and I think we are on a good path and wait for the decision to be taken by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14717	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14738	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, in one thing I'm really right about: This is a sensitive issue, and it is above all a sensitive issue because it concerns human health. We're discussing this because there's a suspicion or because there's some suspicion that glyphosate could be carcinogenic. I believe that one should not play with the health of people, and therefore, of course, this is a very sensitive issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, Minister, you have also asked for a little bit of materiality. I found the debate very factual at least at the beginning. I think it would be good in the sense of materiality, too, if you decided. You will once again abstain from the vote, as you have already done, and I am very sorry because there were other countries, such as France, which have taken a very clear position and were not allowed to do so again. I'm telling you, Minister: I think this is a wrong way if we always try, or if you always try to get the curve for everyone. If a poison, a broadband herbicide, is suspected of triggering disease, which is very serious, then we should look back a little on what interests are really more essential: Is it economic interests, especially those of corporations? They also do nothing good to farmers if you explain to them: That's all great anyway, uses it on! – That’s just the wrong way. I believe that many farmers are willing to leave Glyphosate and look for other ways. Austria, by the way, is a pioneer and a model in organic farming. So there are many possibilities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, we have a Minister of Health – I am very sorry that she did not come today – who has always expressed herself in the last few weeks, she does not want the approval to continue. The two speakers, Mr Vogl and Mr Heinisch-Hosek, have also pointed out that it would be good for the SPÖ to be correct not to extend the authorisation any longer. But I'm saying one thing: In Austria, we have glyphosate not only in agriculture. This is a large area, but Glyphosate, for example, is produced by the ÖBB in huge quantities – along all railways – as well as by the ASFINAG. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] These are quantities we don't need there. It would also be possible to look at the national level, where we could actually save it, and I would have expected, if the Minister of Health had really meant it so seriously, that she would first participate in the debate, out of self-interest, but also that the SPÖ would begin to form opinions in its own ranks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us put the agricultural sector aside! The ÖBB do not need to deliver glyphosate. The ASFINAG does not need glyphosate either. What did they do before? That was all right. There will also be other possibilities, and I believe that we must now come to realize that we are even aware of where this is being used everywhere. You could buy a roundup earlier; in every Bauhaus, in every home market you could take it with you. That's what people used somewhere because it was so practical because it broke every blade of grass. We are already a little away from this, but in the large areas this is still done, and I would expect the SPÖ to show a little more responsibility because I believe that you are already very close to the ideological orientation of ÖBB and ASFINAG and its board members. Once again, it would be necessary to finally enter into negotiations that one can also show an example that one can say: It goes without it, because if it goes there, we will also be able to do so in the agricultural sector. Our farmers will make it possible and realize that glyphosate is not really needed in every area and it will go without glyphosate in agriculture. That's what I'm convinced of. It's not the future. I would also like to say one thing in the direction of ÖVP: Of course, glyphosate is demonstrated in urine and blood, and there are numerous studies. You can't deny this. And yes, it is also found in food, for example in beer. [[Abg. Strasser: Not in Austrian products!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Loacker, I was particularly shocked by your speech. They're here as health spokesmen and they're making fun of all this. That's not responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You can already say that you have to drink a thousand liters of beer a day, that may be all right, it does the mass. You take it in the grain, you take it in the beer. There are studies from the Federal Republic of Germany that the population in large cities, which is far from agriculture, has glycosate in the blood. That means we're all talking about the food in there for a long time. That's not a simple, easy middle. We should take this much, much more seriously in the sense of health! And if the health of our people is worth something to us, you also have to review the poisons much, much, much more critical. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That's why it's actually happening. So we are finally trying to see this debate, if you want to conduct it objectively, as well as this: Where can we easily give up and where do we need negotiations?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14833	Mr Pirklhuber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e14855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have really followed the speeches and I must say that there is now obviously a majority to stop glyphosate in order to take the pioneering role in environmental policy in Europe again, namely to us here in Parliament. It was the Members, Minister Rupprechter, who decided in 2013 the ban on sikkation, which you mentioned. That was this Parliament, which was not a proposal from the ministry. Mr Auer, we two have negotiated it, but not just we; we have decided this together with our colleagues here. That is also the task of this question. It's not about election, it's about a completely political debate, namely: Where does our economy develop? Where, in the end, is political culture developing in Europe, in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? Colleagues rightly addressed the big Monsanto-Bayer-Deal. This is about 66 billion and more, which corresponds almost to the state budget of Austria. These are the dimensions in which this is thought. Ladies and gentlemen, the question some have already asked is: Who's inserating where? [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] Who advertises in the “Bauernzeitung”, colleague Schultes? [[Abg. Steinbichler: Kammerzeitung!]] Who's putting in there? – The chemical industry: Bayer, Syngenta, Monsanto and Co. These are your customers, these are your advertisers. That's how it looks! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: A madness! Ad corruption!]] If Mr Loacker is here as a pesticides lobbyist of the special class, by really saying that everything is science-based and harmless, then I have to say, okay, you can close your eyes and pretend as if you did not perceive anything. The European Parliament has spoken plainly. At the meetings of the committees, in the EU Subcommittee, we have worked very intensively on the subject, and I must tell you one thing, Mr Federal Minister – it is already remarkable, it opens the eyes of the last twofolds –: If an environmental minister is producing himself today and in a campaign of elections is seriously claiming that pesticides are nothing but drugs – Mr Minister, you have done this here today – then it is defying, ladies and gentlemen, and so defying, because pesticides have an eminent environmental effect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! You can't escape them!]] Where is the decline in biodiversity to complain about biodiversity worldwide? What are the main causes, besides a change in management, next to the deforestation of the rainforest et cetera? – It is the use of pesticides, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] This has been proven, long and wide explained and proven. This Minister of the Environment simply rejects this as a drug, and we will certainly oppose it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Brunner: Done!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I see a hope for a critical, active and sustainable parliamentaryism, to act actively in elections, to make decisions here in Parliament, to bind the Minister to the EU Subcommittee. He does not want to assume any responsibility, he shifts responsibility to the lobbyists of the chemical industry and the AGES. This is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kogler: Indirectly he agrees! He's right!]] The Austrian Parliament has always shouldered its responsibility and we will have to bind the Minister to the EU Subcommittee. Then clarity is made, Mr Minister, then we are taking on responsibility here in the house and will ensure that our representatives in this Standing Committee vote against approval in this form and also against further approvals. [[Call the Greens: Here he immediately looks firmly into his documents!]] That seems very important to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen. On the subject of science and science, I would like to draw up an argument which has not yet been put forward. The real-life trials in Argentina and Uruguay have led the whole villages to face a cancer burden that researchers and scientists have referred to meetings that, Mr. Minister, have financed you or your predecessor. At the meetings on GMO-free soya, non-genotechnic cultivation, these researchers from South America have been able to prove the sustainability of their research into South America's practice, agriculture show this. We import such products today, contaminated with glyphosate as feed. - No, let's say it! Yes, we say to an ecological agricultural turnaround, yes to organic farming in Austria, because it leads to the future. The organic farmers not only do not use glyphosate, they do not use chemical-syntthetic pesticides at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the future: Residual, high-quality food, food security, food sovereignty, this is what our citizens want, and we will fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15022	Next word: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15044	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Glyphosate is the subject, and I really have to wonder very much about the Green Group, because the only reason why we are discussing this today seems to be the approaching election campaign. [[Abg. Belakovich: He's getting close to you first? We're already in the middle!]] The only “argument” that the colleague of the Greens has put forward is panic and fear. It's no more than that. [[Abg. Korun: Climate change!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Glyphosate is, of course, critical, and we have to deal seriously with the subject, but it's not that easy that you say it's dangerous, it's toxic, it's banned. One has to first look at what has been done in Austria so far, and this has been done by the Food Safety Agency, the AGES, on 18 November. ==References====External links== On the one hand, the so-called Sikkation Prohibition in Austria is pronounced, which means that this early acrib is now completely forbidden in Austria. It is also completely forbidden to use plant protection products directly on sealed surfaces. It is not glyphosate-containing plant protection product with the confectionery Tallowamin because it could actually prove that it could be harmful to health. 49 glyphosate products of 18 authorisation and approval holders are authorised. This is the current situation in Austria. The question is whether there is sufficient evidence to allow us to take further steps. I would say yes because there is a precautionary principle and because one has to assume that we really have to limit further. Only – and I have missed this in the whole debate so far –: What is the alternative to glyphosate? If we decide here and today or at a later stage in Parliament, do we not want glyphosate, an alternative? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Is there!]] What is the alternative of the Green Group? – That was not presented in the argument. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Talk time!]] All the alternatives we know are equal or more worrying. [[Abg. Kogler: Why should there be no poison-free agriculture?]] That means from our point of view, and that is already an essential point of view, that if we do not give up glyphosate in conventional agriculture, we will either have measures that lead to a significant price of food, or other risks that we know even less than those of the glyphosate. Thus, from our point of view, the Dutch model would be exactly the right model: a complete restriction on private use, i.e. also in the classical Schreberg species and so on, no use in this area; a return to the minimum with regard to the agricultural sector, including the large enterprises, of course also ÖBB and ASFINAG, and appropriate monitoring and research as regards alternatives to glyphosate. If we find the opportunity to actually use a better means for our agriculture, you will have NEOS on board immediately. What I do not think is that you are fearing people with a theme that is currently classified as hardly likely to be harmful to health by all health organisations worldwide who have reputations. I would give people pure wine and not fall into panic, just because the survey results show down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15153	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking to Mrs Kadenbach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15174	Mr President. High house! We people's representatives have probably been elected for the most part because the people expect us to take responsibility – that we take responsibility for their health, take responsibility for the landing of healthy food on our tables, take responsibility for ensuring that the environment remains as healthy as possible. What we are now experiencing is a gradual withdrawal from responsibility. I may briefly quote Mr. Federal Minister: “We’re not for a political decision for a technical deal with the admission of funds.” – Aha, that is, we’re just asking more of the experts who say yes, we’re doing it, or, no, we’re not doing it. – What are we still sitting here for, Mr. Minister? If I listen to Mr Rupprechter today, I will continue in this tone: Our farmers work 365 days a year so that we have high-quality food on our tables. - Yes, they do. But why don't you support them in that they can produce in a way that they don't need glyphosate, pesticides and co anymore? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hear from my colleague Köstinger that plant protection products are used very moderately because they are so expensive. – Yes, we know, only glyphosate does not protect a plant, glyphosate kills it. Perhaps we should keep this in mind. And what kills plants ends up in our water, ends up in our food, and I am delighted when the Federal Minister says so full-bodiedly: In Austria there is no food that is burdened with glycosate, in Austria there is no water that is burdened with glycosate! Mr Federal Minister, perhaps you have already heard that we have an internal market, that water does not adhere to national and federal borders, that it is not a problem, even if we in Austria ban glyphosate, that it is imported and used from countries in which it is authorised. We have no strict controls on how much glyphosate is applied when and where. If we continue to do so, we have a little bit of case law throughout the European Union. That can't be what we want. We want to make a clear commitment to the fact that something that we have a reasonable suspicion that it is carcinogenic is no longer used in the European Union. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter:... European Parliament!]] We do not want half-hearted solutions, as the Federal Minister has called them: Well, in the mountain regions of Austria, we may not use it. - No! We want solutions for the whole European Union, and there you and your representatives in the AGES have to take responsibility and say no to Glyphosate – not there a little, there a little, but a clear no! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Auer: You voted for the extension!]] The people of Europe, the people of the European Union, in Austria, have dealt with the subject of glyphosate, even though it sounds very bulky and the Minister has said: Yeah, it's all so insanely complicated! – It is not so insanely complicated. People want to be sure that their health is not endangered by food. They want drinking water not contaminated, not toxic. That's what we're working for. Within a short time, more than one million Europeans have made use of the European Citizens' Initiative instrument, and within a few months they have clearly said: We don't want to use Glyphosate anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: You voted for the extension! For your group!]] And all professionals will confirm: There are alternatives. We're not alternatives. There are other types of farming. There are other possibilities. The Minister himself has shown us today that there are alternatives. Yeah, then we'll stimulate them in the future. As long as the funds are available on the market, there is also relatively little initiative to invest in new methods and new types of agriculture and, above all, in management. We want a clear order today. They were a little sluggish, and this is Mr. Bundesminister Kurz again and again, with a few beautiful headlines: Yes to health, yes to food safety! - Yes, but then there must be an action. The title alone does not make an Austrian healthier, does not make our food safer. I would like to make a very clear commitment from you, Mr Minister, but also from Mr Bundesminister Kurz: Yes to the safety of our food, Yes to the health of the Austrians, Yes to a ban on glyphosate – best immediately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15258	The Member of the European Parliament Heinz Becker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15280	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Appreciate visitors to the gallery! Dear Seers on ORF III! As an Austrian Member of the European Parliament, I am happy to see the opportunity to present essential facts. Introductory and in principle: Plant protection products have a high role to play in protecting against pests and fungal infestation, thus ensuring the high quality of agriculture and its food production in the context of a plowless, soil-saving and climate-friendly farming. - That's fact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Label Dizzy!]] The discussion on glyphosate has again become particularly critical in recent days due to the accusations to the seed manufacturer Monsanto. Media reported that the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, partially took over Monsanto’s argument. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right!]] It is therefore clear that transparency is essential in this discussion, and this must be ensured at all levels in Austrian and European political life. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The current accusations must be carefully reviewed, we call for a hundred percent reconnaissance. The European Parliament therefore organises on 11 November. In October, a public hearing was held. It serves solely the objective of transparency and education. The current proposal from the European Commission to extend the authorisation of glyphosate after the end of the year cannot be accepted in our view in the current form. [[Abg. Belakovich: So what now? Change or...? You've got to decide!]] Our competent Austrian experts from the Agency AGES have opted for a limited authorisation, and this restricted application does not mean any use in the vicinity of kindergartens, no use in public space, no use in private use and pre-harvesting. [[Abg. Brunner: But this is an admission!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Authorisation is authorisation!]] [[Ah- and Oh-Rufe at FPÖ and Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] There must be no glyphosate. After all, we take the concerns of the citizens seriously and must not forget in this debate that it is a technical and scientific issue, which is then decided by politics, but based on scientific findings and not on election-wing fun as you conduct it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brunner: Exactly! Let's do that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] On this important and sensitive issue, no political change can be struck, as you prove it to be continuous today. The EIA delegation in the European Parliament will closely monitor the procedure of the European Commission in order to continue to ensure the highest quality standards on Austrian soil. [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Very briefly on the voting behaviour of the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the European Parliament: It is quite exciting how these two parties adapt their voting behaviour precisely to the positions in the election campaign. In the European Parliament, MEPs from SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ voted against the request in question to extend to seven years, but the extension by seven years had a majority in this House – and there SPÖ and FPÖ finally agreed to the resolution. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Mr Wenninger.]] The ÖVP delegation has abstained in both votes, the request for extension by seven years and the final vote. For us, the interest of Austrian citizens is the principle of action and not your election tactics – a kind of opportunistic and unscrupulous political kangaroo hips that you prove! We remain consistently a top priority in food safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We will certainly not allow cancer-inducing substances. That's what brings me to agriculture. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Then you must be against it!]] In the case of plant protection, the following shall apply: As much as necessary, as little as possible. And agriculture is the one that guarantees it. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15473	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15488	No campaign polemics on a topic so important to all Austrians! That's what the new People's Party stands for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15560	Next: Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15581	Mr President. High house! One can see the emotion and the previous speech, with which zigzag course the ÖVP is moving in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There, Marcel Hirscher's slalom runs seem almost like a school ski course when you look at how the ÖVP winds back and forth. So quite honestly, it is indeed grotesque, with what way policy is to be pursued here, on the back of the citizens and on the back of the health of our people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The theme “No poison on our plates!” is overstated, but nevertheless it brings the particular point to the tapet – for who is behind these companies? Who's making profits? Who makes 4 billion € in sales? – A certain group called Monsanto, which simultaneously influences studies, as we have heard several times today, from EFSA with more than 100 pages, which are taken over with copy-and-paste. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but not listed!]] So if the objectivity is, if it is objective, a high-scientific achievement, then good night, ladies and gentlemen! That can't be. If we already call on studies, then those that are also carried out objectively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I'm sorry you're so far away now. I always liked the dialogue with you because your calls were always exciting; now I hear you, I don't think. [[Abg. Schimanek: He doesn't say anything anymore!]] [[Abg. Schieder: Here he is Tyrolean! He's got a strong voice anyway!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Nothing has been said since Turquoise!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] In this area, I expect you as the Federal Minister, but also the entire Federal Government – and I do not take you out in the health field – to have a clear positioning, a single voice in Europe to ensure the health of our people. That is the essential factor for us, and nothing happens from your side, nothing at all! They contain the vote and do not give a clear position for Austria. [[Abg. Brunner: Attitude means consent!]] There are many areas where glyphosate is used. We could just agree: Glyphosate generally away from public space, away from the ÖBB, also from the ASFINAG. These are all areas that we ourselves have in hand. These are all topics that are not addressed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I definitely expect an engagement and an impulse from this federal government as long as it is still active, you have to say now, just before the election. I hope that the Austrians will then also see and take note of what has definitely been missed in recent years. I mentioned earlier who is behind Glyphosate: the Monsanto Group, €4 billion. At the same time, researchers from WHO, the World Health Organization, are being influenced. They are not only affected, they are threatened to guide certain topics or whole studies in a certain direction. An example: Recently, the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, has expressed its support for further authorisation of glycosate. As mentioned above, it has simply taken over 100 pages, without commenting. This is a clear evidence of the fact that numerous studies in the public sector are training those that only protect corporate interests in the end-effect, but not the consumer interests whose protection is the essential factor for us. We support consumers, consumers and the health of our people. All the more sad I find it then that the ÖVP does not express itself for a restriction. This is a restriction, a significant restriction in this area. This also applies to the SPÖ. That's a shame, and it's actually a bad story. Another point mentioned in advance was the CETA, the free trade agreement. As a result, the European Court of Justice has published a judgment which states that individual EU Member States may prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified food and feed only if they can prove previously that the product poses a serious risk to human and animal health and the environment. Now imagine this: In the final effect, there is now the reverse of evidence in relation to who has to prove whether a product is dangerous to health or not! In this sense: The FPÖ has a clear opinion here, we stand for it, and on the 15th. October you have the chance to give us the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15704	Next: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15725	For the second time, we are discussing a European issue, but in principle it is about attitude and orientation – also with the short-term ÖVP. It is no longer acceptable that you are constantly on the run, not to declare yourself. I'll call you the connection. If you make yourself here and say: There is an expert group that advises the Commission and we have nothing to do with it, then that is much more sand in the eyes than at the Federal Chancellor's core with CETA. That is inconceivable what you are explaining to the people here, including the honourable Member. Yes, do you think we are so stupid and do not understand the European rules? They go like this: The Commission decides, yes, but there is an established group, a Standing Committee that can stop it. This is a reasonable mechanism in the Lisbon Treaty. On the other hand, a few were, in the end, we were in favour of it – you are only right. And now, as the responsible Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, you're acting with all the discrepancy that anyone would decide, but that's exactly what's going to happen to your party and your own right now: on the run, don't have any debates and spread the big turquoise spray of well-being somewhere. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we will not let you go through this without further delay, because in the end, democracy is also about attitudes and decisions that can be made clearly here. And in the large plant it is indeed so – even though some try to kill others as irresponsible; no, let's look at what's going on! –: Of course, it is about large groups versus healthy agriculture, of course it is about large groups versus human protection and environmental protection. That's just grounded. Maybe it's not as dramatic as other poisons, like DDT, like asbestos, you're gonna say now; but how was it then? – By adhering to the precautionary principle, it was only possible that all of this had been considered safe for so long. And now this is exactly what it is about. We are constantly talking about CETA and others, where the precautionary principle is already perforated. You are doing it here, in fact, against the European rules. It is also science-based to apply the precautionary principle, but if there are such risks, it is also a way to press the stop button for the benefit of all, but also for an economic turnaround and a change in agriculture, so that we have food that deserves this name again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yeah, then they can be a little more expensive, that's right, but there you have to switch elsewhere. If resource consumption and poisoning become more expensive, then the health and human work have to be cheaper, we don't have to turn on the big wheels. But you're just doctors around, and then you're too cowardly to take a stand! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now I'm telling you how it works there: The authority in this committee is bound by direction, which has already suggested a few, but there is a two-thirds majority, and a renunciation is actually counted as a provocative vote. We need a total of two thirds to reject this. Then the Commission can pack. And what do you want? – They want to unpack, but in favour of the corporations. Now you have the opportunity, and then you say again: It's none of my business, the experts! – The very question of science is the crucial one, but at the end of the day, politics always has to be decided, otherwise we will choose the experts, the so-called expertocracy. I don't know anything about that. Let's get to the point. It has been mentioned so often, but the real scandal of these 100 pages that have been copied into them is as follows: You can do that if you quote it correctly, but it has been exactly the opposite, it has just been taken over. By the way, in politics everyone has a plagiarism, but the ladies and gentlemen are still running around freely. Why? – Because it is politics itself that wants it because it is too cowardly and wants to allow it. There are experts and bad guys – and most of them are those who are paid by the wrong side at the wrong time, who even lack the backbone, who are interested, as it is in life. The balance of interests must be made by policy. Getting Now You just have to confess color: black or turquoise, that's me wurch, main thing right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are the key issues to which it is at this point. [[Abg. Wöginger: short-points!]] Finally, all of this is interwoven with very large ecological and economic circumstances, which one cannot now only see against each other. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] The new thing is to put this under a hat. Unfortunately, that's what ÖVP forgets. Economy and environment under one hat: In this there are huge opportunities in the future. Because we don't have a second planet.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15792	Now the Member of the European Parliament is speaking to Mrs. Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15813	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Nice to be here in these new halls, I have to say that this has been very successful architecturally. On the subject of myself, whose selection I find less successful: I think everything has been said about glyphosate, especially by my two colleagues Gerald Loacker and Michael Bernhard, so that I really want to address two other points which I consider important and which I thought were much more appropriate for a current European hour in the National Council. I think it is generally known that last week, President Juncker gave his annual speech on the situation of the Union in the EU Parliament in Strasbourg. [[Abg. Belakovich: Did he say something to glyphosate?]] He has drawn a scenario for the future of Europe, and it would have been appropriate to exchange here today on this subject, less on glyphosate. [[Abg. Belakovich: The subject is already being selected by the political groups.]] [[Abg. Walter Rauch: Did he say something to glyphosate?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] In Austria, Juncker was particularly criticized for this, unfortunately also by the government parties. In particular, his statement on the euro was a problem for many, even though Juncker only said that he wanted to support the countries of Central and South-East Europe in introducing the euro as soon as possible and thus our common European currency. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not the theme today, please!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This has little to do with glyphosate now!]] Two things about it: First of all, he has only explained the current legal situation and has created an interesting political aspect. All countries meeting the criteria laid down must also introduce the euro as a currency. This has been true since 1992. And those who reject the introduction of the Community currency by all EU countries do not know European law and believe that they can fail to do so. Secondly, I am also convinced that the euro is absolutely necessary for common identity and therefore also for solidarity and successful cooperation in the EU. [[Call the FPÖ:And who should pay it?]] Responsible statesmen and women, especially those in the heart of Europe, those who always like to refer to the role as bridge builders, would set things in motion so that these countries can quickly and reliably implement those reforms that are the prerequisite for Euro accession, reforms that make the entire EU more resistant and better prepare for any future financial crises. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is unfortunately thematic error! What are you doing? You can't put the subject there!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we should discuss this and not discuss a non-theme, namely the subject of glyphosate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] In connection with bridge construction and cooperation, I am particularly pleased to be able to present to you today as Neos Vice-Chairman a platform, which hopefully will soon become known as the reasonable counterpart to the existing Visegrád Group. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's actually an insanity what you're doing!]] [[Subsequent calls to FPÖ and greens.]] Together with liberal Europeans and citizens' movements in Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, on Monday in Bratislava we have the New Central Europe...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15958	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You note the unrest in the hall, which is right in this case, that you are far away from the subject which a political group has rightly chosen in this House. I have not yet done so because you have made the way out of Brussels here and you have apparently prepared another topic, but we are on the subject of glyphosate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e15986	We are on the subject of glyphosate, which I consider to be a non-thematic, and I believe that there are issues that have a much more central importance, such as a common Europe, common prosperity, common solidarity for a common approach to the challenges that can be achieved across countries. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You don't have to talk! You do not have to speak, if you have nothing to say about it!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] I thank you for your patience, I believe that we missed the subject, we could have benefited differently, but... [[Abg. Steinhauser: You missed that, that's right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a disdain of Parliament!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16064	I don't have anything to add to the saying before. Mr Schmid is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16088	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On the subject of glyphosate: Our local agriculture produces high-quality food. I think we agree on this. The fact that the EU wants to allow questionable products to pass the national states and thus has a negative impact on our high quality is not tolerable. In discussion, the herbicide is glycosate. Research findings allow for different assessments of health hazards. As in other EU regulations, this also applies to the side of large corporations. The authorisation may not be granted for products whose non-injuriousity has not been proven by a hundred percent. At present, it seems that the degree of hazard of glycosate is determined by the manufacturer Monsanto. Such a provision must be strictly rejected. If the EU does not succeed in a rethinking process, it will not be possible for Austria to issue a ban, since the EU's dictatorship will be taken into account. On the subject of glyphosate, once again the EU's action proves to the detriment of the Member States. Independent national legislation would probably result in the prohibition of glyphosate in Austria – another point to rethink the EU's survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16120	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16141	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up on your comments, Minister Rupprechter. You said in your speech that some parties had mushrooms, some parties had fleas. I can add: Some parties have ministers who have no idea! Otherwise, I can't appreciate your statements here today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] We have already heard a lot about glyphosate in the debate – the current hour of Europe is already about the end. It has been classified by the International Cancer Research Agency (WHO) as ‘probably carcinogenic’. I cannot understand that you simply wipe this classification and these concerns from the table. And I think that's how many others are doing, that's not to understand. If there is health damage, if there is a likelihood of developing cancer, then you can't wipe it out of the table and say it's all right and it's guaranteed that no toxic, bad, carcinogenic food will come to the plate. Mr Minister, this is what you have to say from this point of view. It is also significant – I think it also makes a strange picture, especially now in the ruling election campaign – if ÖVP and SPÖ do not even agree on how to proceed here, whether to agree to an extension or not. Mr Heinisch-Hosek reported that the talks, negotiations with Minister Rendi-Wagner failed. You said in your remarks, there's an agreement, it's all okay. - So what's right now? [[Call: You didn't listen to that]] I think this is particularly true in this case. You certainly do not give the Austrian population a good service if you show such a disunity here. Above all – now I am back at the ÖVP – one already has the impression that you are making a kneefall in front of international lobbyists and representing the Group interests. If I look at the answers of your new supervisor to a questionnaire that Greenpeace sent out and was answered by all the candidate parties, if I look at what was sometimes answered respectfully here – that has already been mentioned by some previous speakers today – then I have to say that is already a strong piece. There is much more information to be done here that people, voters and voters also know what they can do when they go the way of the new EIA. I don't think that's gonna be a good one, you'll see if he'll be crowned of success. And it will be seen if the voters vote that the ÖVP does not oppose a re-approval by Monsanto, as it does almost all the parties here in Parliament, with the exception of NEOS, which is also showing a somewhat peculiar behaviour or a peculiar argument when one considers the statements made today by Klubobmann Strolz and other previous speakers of NEOS. Let me leave my colleague Mlinar aside. Finally, I would like to mention CETA because we did not have so much time in the previous debate. Mr Vilimsky also mentioned that it is only possible on the part of the FPÖ that CETA will be implemented or treated with popular vote. This is good and right and is of course to support, but I would also like to say here: Why, if we are already in favour of direct democracy, does the FPÖ make exceptions to certain issues on which it does not want to vote? I think the people should have the opportunity to vote on every issue. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: Every issue must be or can be subject to a referendum, and the people must be able to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16187	Mr Steinbichler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16216	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Yes, a very, very important issue, but I am now trying to bring some realism into the debate. If someone wonders that you will find glyphosate in the urine, he only needs to look at the daily menu. Before we look at these, let's see where glyphosate is even released. We have 47 percent forest area – no; Lakes and mountains – no; half of the managed agricultural land in Austria is Greenland – no glyphosate! Then let's talk about where it's being brought out everywhere. Before we come to the food plan, just a moment: It is the field of science and research that develops these products – we are always so proud that we are so skilled – and this area is not liable. Then comes the authority that allows the product – it is not liable! Then come the chemical companies that produce – they don't have liability! Then the trade comes, then the sale comes, then the consultation comes. Ads – Mr Pirklhuber has said it – are placed in the specialist newspapers, in the chamber newspaper, in the farmer's newspapers, on page by page! The representatives drive from house to house and sell. All these are not liable! Who's in charge? - The stupid one who buys! The one who buys and pays for the product, which is so beautifully praised, will be insulted! These are the ÖBB, that is the ASFINAG, these are the gardeners that maintain the beautiful parking spaces in the city center, these are the consumers who use it for their lawns at home – and finally the farmers. So that we can see the bandwidth! And then there is a discussion here that the Austrian farmers poison the population with glycosate! So, and now we start at breakfast, because breakfast has to start with glyphosate, of course. Why is there glyphosate inside? [[keep a glass of nutella in height]] - Because palm oil is inside! So that we can talk a little bit about reality. Of course you want to have a soup with glyphosate at lunchtime. [[Showing a pack soup]] If you drink another afternoon coffee and refine it with a cheap spray cream – it is ideal, always durable: with glyphosate. [[this pointing]] If you may use vegan egg yolk in cooking, guarantees without egg, guarantees without milk, vegan guarantees and guarantees sustainable: with glycosate. [[Keeping a bottle of egg yolk replacement in height]] This goes on, and we see exactly how this issue is being discussed by politics. Ladies and gentlemen. Is it not extremely embarrassing that three weeks ago we discussed the colour of the pommes, about the color of the schnitzel, but not about what dirt soup it swims in? It's called glyphosat, because it's in there in every frying fat. This is a small binder, a very small binder, usually we have 30-litre tins, pallet style. [[Keeping the broom in height]] In this fat we bathe our well-produced food in Austria, and then we wonder that there are residues in the urine. I could unseal everything: Creme légère, apply as impactors. [[this pointing]] Of course we must not forget our pets, they also get it. [[show a pack of cat food]] It really goes across the vegetable garden. I'm going to stop with the cosmetics and the other stories. There is still a good cooking cream that you can use, a well-known brand: with glyphosate. [[this pointing]] This is the discussion we have to hold, ladies and gentlemen, instead of lying to each other, and then we are talking about what is happening in the rainforest, the impact on the environment, the climate! These are the facts. That is why I should like to say clearly: We need not only political liability, but also responsibility for the authorities, for the offices that allow it, for producers, for science and research. But it can't be that the last ones bite the dogs. I think that's very important. We want very clear rules of play, we want democratization, we want the people's participation! Finally, I would like to say to our citizens what democracy means by the EIA, a government party: X-times the application was made to implement the Quality Seal Act. Hermann Schultes of the ÖVP and colleague Vogl von der SPÖ, as representatives of consumers: Why did you always vote against it? Why do you vote against the Austrian Quality Seal Act, which would end with a blow of this whole fraud? [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We want a People's Movement where the People Can Speak With Us Whites won't be there!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16319	I didn't understand the word, I'm going to look at it. [[Abg. Steinbichler: “Saustall”! With us whites, there won't be any more!]] No one has made any mention of this. That concludes this debate. [[12:56:39]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16349	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16617	Before I can continue now, I have to wait for a part of the Croquis due to the late submission of a urgent request and therefore interrupt the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16652	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:02:01]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16679	I declare the following: Deputies Mag. Mr Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for the self-employed motion tabled at the same time 2283/A(E) by Mr Mag. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on strict rules for party donations are to be dealt with urgently. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent action shall be put to the vote at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 4 p.m. Deputies Mag. Rossmann, Dr. Zinggl, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Steinbichler and Dietrich requested urgent consideration of the written question 14052/J of the above-mentioned Members to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning "Data Protection" for foundations and tax-free corporations before entry into the agenda. In accordance with the conflict rules, this urgent request does not come to the attention of the green club's urgent request. [[13:03:26]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16715	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the honourable Members. Becher requested to amend the Building Committee for Reporting on the application 2273/A concerning a federal law amending the Rent Law 1981 and the Housing Property Act 2002 – Novel Law 2017 – a period of time until 12. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. In view of the fact that a urgent request was requested for today's meeting, the brief debate will take place following the examination of the urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. The brief debate on the reply to Question No 12733/AB requested by Members Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, does not come to the fore because of the conflict rules laid down in § 57b of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that a deadline application for the SPÖ club with a deadline for reporting to 1. On 10 October 2017, the Green Club submitted seven deadline applications with a deadline for reporting until 10 October 2017. In October each year, without any debate, it was brought in. With regard to the text of the applications, I would like to refer to the copies of the deadline applications distributed in the room. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, the said requests will be put to the vote separately, in the order in which they are applied for. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16762	In order to be able to negotiate items 5 and 6 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 5 and 6 are reports by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 2270/A by Mr Doris Bures, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for victims of National Socialism (1772 of the Supplements), and the Government template (1766 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Zukunftsfonds Act (1773 of the Supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the withdrawal of the time-limit for these committee reports to give such a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 and 5 and 6 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? – – For business treatment? On the agenda, an objection. [[Abg. Pilz can speak by lifting hands.]] [[Abg. Pilz: To the agenda!]] Please, Mr Pilz. The nearest microphone is probably that of Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka. [[Abg. Pilz: I trust you!]] [[13:06:47]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16836	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am raising an objection to the agenda, including the request, Agenda item 4: To present the report of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee and put it in place on the agenda. I justify this as follows: The debate on the clearance of accounts is a traditional and important debate in this House, but the report of the Eurofighter Examining Committee is a report on an extraordinary work on an extraordinary affair. This is the first time that the Austrian National Council has promoted an investigation committee through the cooperation of all political groups – and it is important to me to emphasize this – to show extraordinary evidence of new facts and new material. We are all in the Republic of Austria, from the Minister of Defence to this House, in a difficult discussion with Eurofighter and with the Airbus Group. We need every support, every alliance and every public in order to be able to lead this debate successfully. There will be the first charges in Vienna and probably also in Munich in autumn. There is an ever-increasing opportunity to get up to € 1 billion, possibly even the total purchase price, from Airbus, but we need even more support and a Parliament that continues to be closed behind this information. Eurofighter and Airbus will do anything to harm the Republic of Austria. Eurofighter and Airbus will do everything to prevent them from being asked to cash out and there are political and criminal consequences. It is therefore necessary to make it clear from this House, at the beginning of the agenda, in the largest possible public, to the Airbus Group, that what has come to the attention of the Austrian Parliament in recent days of insults, abuses and submissions from Germany, is simply not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That is why, Mr President, I am doing so, and therefore I am seeking to give my request for this amendment to be made on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16888	Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I must draw your attention to the fact that according to § 50 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure such a request is permitted only immediately after the opening of the sitting, and that was today at 9.07 a.m. in the morning, and not before the entry into the agenda. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh, that's a patch!]] I cannot therefore put this motion to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I am sorry. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16917	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 and 5 and 6 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e16942	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 5.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 74, FPÖ 69, Green 58 and NEOS 30 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 15 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority, with the required two-thirds majority. [[13:11:15]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the 2016 financial statements (III-401 and III-401/1868, D.B.) 2. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment No 2280/A by Mr Gabriele Tamandel, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Federal Law on a Law on the entrance into the Foundation and the Study Promotion Act 1992 (1769 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment No 2269/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on a Federal Act adopting the Housing Contribution Act 2018 and amending the Federal Law on the Collection of a Housing Funding Contribution, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Financial Balance Act 2017 (1770 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17017	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. No oral reporting is required. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17044	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is about three items on the agenda, which do not have much to do with each other, so I will also discuss them individually. I'll start with the third one: The contribution to housing development is intended to become a country tax only, but legislation remains in the competence of the federal government, but the setting of tariffs will come to the competence of the countries. We will vote in favour of this bill by the FPÖ, because it is a small but first step towards the country's tax autonomy. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The FPÖ will also agree to the second item on the agenda. The aim is to eliminate injustice in the promotion of studies for approximately 300 out of 1,000 self-holders concerned. We will agree to this because it is important to improve the situation of students that we finally take measures in this respect again. On the other hand, it should also be noted that there is a lot in the arrogance at the universities. There's a lot going wrong at the universities. For example, the money is missing for those subjects where graduates would have good prospects for the future. And even where there is a lack, such as with the doctors, there is something wrong. Our young people, our maturants, who want to study human medicine or veterinary medicine, have to undergo completely careless and senseless entrance tests, but not only that; in veterinary medicine it is not even enough for one to make this examination, no, one also has to take the grades of the 7th and 8th. In the course of the course of the year, the number of students in the secondary school is higher than in the secondary school. We all know that the Matura is entitled to study in Austria, every study in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we do to our young people with these entrance tests and the obstacles that have been set up for this purpose really mocks every description. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Foreign students come to Austria in Scharen, study with us, take away our students' places, but are gone immediately after their studies. [[Abg. Kogler: Especially Germanic! That's what I always say: The Germans...!]] There is no money at all at universities, but for studies that no human needs, gender master's studies and the like, the money appears to be available, although the graduates of these studies will find a job more or less even later only in the Green Education Workshop or in the Women's Department of the Socialist Trade Unions' Group. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] So what's meant by our students is really embarrassing. SPÖ and ÖVP are responsible for this. I should now like to make a few comments on the responsibility. Point one, for the bank account statement: What can be said about the federal accounts? – It is a recurring picture every year: In autumn, the Federal Government – above all the Finance Ministers – promises us the blue from the sky, and a year later the Federal Accounting Office, created by the Court of Auditors, the Federal Government – and again again the Federal Finance Minister – returns to the sad soil of reality. In between, there is a year of refusal of reform and inactivity, because hollow phrases do not save a budget. What can be read from the current invoice? – There is a deficit of €9.5 billion. Financial debt, liabilities and provisions of the federal government increased by more than €12 billion, while assets increased only by €3.9 billion. That means: Three times more stress increases than the increase in wealth. This shows once again the failure of this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this result, which has already been despatched at €9.5 billion, is at a time when interest rates are on the ground – if interest rates were at normal levels, then it would be even more disastrous – and the whole thing at a time when the Federal Republic of Germany writes surpluses. If you were to put the €20 billion that Germany writes on surpluses into Austria, we would not have a deficit of €9.5 billion, but a surplus of €2 billion in that country, but this does not happen in these times. Every reform of state structures and administration has been repeatedly postponed since 2007. There is nothing in this area at all. Since 2007, every logging of our overboarding promotion jungle has been moved again and again. Nothing has happened in this area. Any reform of federalism has fallen victim to inactivity and has been labeled as a “go to changeover” if anything has been done at all. To give the truth the honor: It was also done something, the transparency database was decided in 2011. Only: As we all know, it's not filled, it's a database without content. And as far as the big tax reform of two years ago is concerned, we know that the effects of this reform will be puffed by the cold progression by 2020 at the latest. Did I forget anything? – Oh, yes, exactly, the counter-financing of the tax reform – the key to registration, the fight against fraud and the like – does not work exactly as planned! But enough of the sarcasm, the subject is too serious, because, because of this federal accounts of the Federal Government, it is necessary to suggest the immediate withdrawal. That is what God has failed to do: ==References== October New elections, and there will finally find its place in the scrapyard of history – at this federal billing finale quite rightly!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17113	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17145	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have completely different opinions every year when we put the accounts to the discussion here. Mr Haider has just referred to points on which reforms are concerned, and to that we must say: Of course, we have to undertake major reforms in the coming years or especially in the coming years, but if we look at the 2016 federal accounts, we see the following: Employment has increased, the debt ratio has fallen slightly – which is not supposed to encourage us to rejoice at all – and the tax and tax ratio has also fallen slightly. But as far as the question in principle is concerned, all the critics who now highly criticise Sebastian Kurzso ask again and again how to get to a tax rate of 40 percent or how he imagines that the debt ratio is falling to 60 percent: First of all, we should have reduced these to 60 percent by 2020, and secondly, we should not lose sight of this objective, because we want to create scope for the next generations so that we can again finance projects for young people and for the younger generation. Now, Mr Haider has left. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, he has a meeting now!]] He's been talking about the provisions. [[Abg. Schimanek: He has a meeting! He'll be right back!]] – Yes, he has a meeting, but he is the budget speaker and has to be here at the budget debate. He does not want to hear one thing, Mrs Colleague, that we have created a provision of €2.3 billion for the mass grave of FPÖ in Carinthia, namely for the ITA. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: This story already has such a beard, but always start with it!]] This is a responsibility that Carinthian FPÖ still does not want to bear. At the end of my parliamentary work, however, I would like to take a little account of the Committee on Budgets. We have had a very good tradition in the Committee on Budgets: We have always decided and discussed unanimously all that had to do with federal budgetary law. We have developed reports further. Despite all the different opinions, we always had a very constructive and good basis for discussion, and I would like to thank the budget speakers, on the one hand my colleague Krainer, but of course also the opposition's budget speakers, for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: I like to continue that!]] I believe that this is very important in the budget area. In the last few years, in a three-stage system, we have created a federal budgetary right that is modern and innovative – compared to that of many other countries. In Germany, for example, the Doppik does not yet exist, and they do not want it at all. That means we can be quite proud. We have also taken suggestions from the opposition over and over again. And since everything is different today and that Mr Rossmann no longer belongs to the green club, you have to say: He too has always been able to bring in his ideas and his suggestions, and the Ministry of Finance has always implemented it. At the end of the day, however, I am warning against sugars, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== September 2008 has happened, we still have to finance every year with about €4 billion, and the boys are getting a backpack again and again. [[Abg. Schimanek: I can go to the 13th. Family aid!]] I hope that this time, before we go to the constituencies, we are more reasonable and do not distribute in a game of free forces election sugar, which we then regret later and which the youth has to pay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: I can go to the 13th. Family aid!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Who distributed the dial sugar?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Head of the Budget Service, Dr. Berger, and I believe that I am speaking on your behalf as Chairman of the Budget Committee, who always supports our Members in an excellent way with his analyses. Of course, I also thank the officials of the House of the Minister for Finance, and I believe that the opposition has always noticed that there is a very, very good basis for the discussion and the information base. I recall compliments or praises from members of the opposition, such as Werner Kogler, who has also repeatedly called the Minister of Finance as a good interlocutor. In this sense, I wish my successor, my successor to the Committee on Budgets, all the best. But don't make any hopes: I shall speak again to the next item on the agenda, which was not a good-bye speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17285	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17306	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The focus is on the Federal Accounting Board, but also on another interesting matter, namely the promotion of housing or their relocation – we are then also for a purpose commitment; we will hear it. In any case, the federal accounts are not quite randomly on the agenda. By the way, I also believe - but we have not enforced - that the investigations on the procurement of the Eurofighter are the first It should have deserved space because it was certainly the greatest shift in the history of the Republic, with all the follow-up appearances. The Eurofighter is, as it were, the hypo of arms policy, which was the biggest financial crime in the history of the Republic. Seis drumm, also the federal accounts are very important. It is not a stupid tradition that we have always been talking about the future in connection with it. And it is de facto then the economic debate of the day, which, of course, has to do with the budget proposals and with the positions that are then taken into account. I believe that, when it comes to economic policy, in times like this one, one must finally look at the fact that ecology comes to its right. Reasonable economic policy will always try to ensure that it is environmentally efficient and, of course, economically efficient. It's easier to express: Economics and the environment are to be put under a hat. This, unfortunately, is drifting again in Austria, in Europe, or there, although it is the greatest opportunity in terms of employment, and it would also save itself a lot of fines, because, see, Austria is finally in the field of climate protection. This is kind of adventurous, because we have the best conditions to move forward. First Mover Advantage: Those who are at first have the advantages – those who run afterwards have the costs. You finally have to understand. Austria has been the longest – in the 1980s and 1990s – at the forefront, in the front field, precisely in these economic developments; in regions such as Upper Austria Anschober has then continued, even where I come from, in Graz surroundings, there are best opportunities. It also happens a lot reasonable with universities, with companies – but unfortunately, one has to say, despite economic policy and not because of economic policy. And that's where we need to go stronger again. The most successful years were those in the 1990s. This, moreover, was a consequence of the Greens entering the political stage: The formation of the green movement and its entry into the National Council have brought the consciousness, yes, and there or there also the rulers, to think in this direction – there or there, but also to do so. That's all a little bit in the background now. So Austria should move forward again. What does this have to do with budgetary and tax policy? - A lot! Budget and fiscal policy – the key word of the federal accounts, Mr President – is, of course, the central instrument of economic governance, as it is said. And that is why we have to reroute at this point, we have to put the Austrian tax system from the head to the feet. It's crazy how it is now. We have two very large gaps in the OECD comparison, which is not wild, which is the organisation of the economically leading countries: the ecological gap and an efficiency gap. I'll start this way, because it'll make it easier for the ÖVP to get out of its social refrigerator once. So we also have an efficiency gap, which, see, is at the same time a justice gap when it comes to where the large tax burden lies. Let's finish this one second: Yes, this country is a high tax country – as it was mentioned earlier – but for whom? – For the self-employed – yes, also – for the unself-employed, for all who work, pursue an acquisition; it even means income from work. There are many other important activities, too, that is another debate, but let us stay where the work is paid! We have the phenomenon that the lower and medium incomes, measured by their strength and overall, are already relatively heavily burdened. Of course there is the progression there, I don't want to talk about it, but big modo is. The manager also lives in a high tax country in a certain way, in so far as he relates to an employment income. If he has shares at the same time and has capital income, it's a little different. So summarized up here: Austria is a high tax country for those who work, and a low tax country for all those who receive capital income, and, see, an Eldorado for all who are foundation billionaires and inherit millions. You don't always need to come with the little housekeeper when it comes to millions of heirs. I don't know where the little housekeeper starts. At the high school, or where? So stop with that polemic! This belongs to a re-routed, but – back to the starting point – it is only quite ecologically re-connected, because even there we are just behind, also in the control system. And yes, it is possible, in the dimension of the last tax reform – all this is not a world downfall – to convert ecologically, of course, not to increase taxes, but above all to relieve tax on another side, namely precisely with the labour costs, where you are always rehearsing, it must remain more in the stock exchange. - Yes, eh! That's right! Only: In our model – and now I come to another point – there is no generous tax reduction promises. I have already experienced this with Schüssel and Mrs Fekter, even before the last election, and each time we have had the problem that this has not been followed – thank God perhaps, in some places, because what is meant by this horse race that all the parties are organizing? We Greens are not there. We don't go here and say we have something to give: 12 billion €, 16 billion €, 19 billion €, everything goes very easily! – Yes, I am not a fetishist of tax and tax quotas, that is a question of social understanding, but one thing is certain: If you turn this down within a few years, then these dimensions are completely radical in the issues – and then tell me where! Not that you couldn't save well. You do not do that in the place where it goes, for example in federalism, in the economic promotions in the countries, in the municipalities where everything is thrown together, no one sees it anymore, and the Federation is also promoting – but the great ones! I also know from Graz that just the companies that make most of the profits get the biggest economic promotion from the state government under hidden titles, but first they get the money from us to distribute it. - There would be enough in there! So save with heart and brain – of course, yes, but overall it is not to do without cuts, and we know how the pension negotiations always did with these announcements, because something had to happen: With the little ones you have made the most and with the tops the least. It was still blue-black. Courageous, Judith Schwentner and others then negotiated to bring down a little bit to the whole great, and that was a reasonable compromise, but it would have to happen a lot more. That's exactly what these announcements are here now. I can only warn that one gives the faith because it is not possible at this speed, or at least not without radical cuts. This has nothing to do with saving, for it is neither heart nor brain, which is in the result unreasonable, even nationally, these are reduction programs. So tell me that too! But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you prefer to withdraw from any discussion, leave some people through the area gondola and paint half the country turquoise – that is – and everyone is promised everything. It can't go out like this! I come to a point where this becomes quite clear again, namely in the promotion of housing. There we have a funny topic, and by chance the ÖVP slips back into the center, but now quite old and black. We are here asking for the commitment of housing development if we already want to be expenditure-efficient. It's not a target grant for Maroding country leaders who take part in the cash register in the budget, because they use it quite differently, but rather it means housing promotion – this is being lifted here – so we also want to use it for residential construction. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We have a completely different subject here today – on which I don't let myself go, you can see it in this way; the Minister of Finance sees it as a success, I don't want to talk about it at all – that we are bringing about a certain change in tax revenue here. But I am now concerned with the use – keyword: use reasonable. That is why we are making the amendment – now we need the two-thirds majority – it was always controversial whether we can do so, because it is being relocated – that we really have a real commitment to complete housing development, including the return flows. You know the system: It will be promoted, and then the promotion will also be repaid. And the money paid back should also be used in this way. If we had had that, then things should have gone differently in Lower Austria – now we are again at the good old ÖVP, which is firmly ruling with the Lord Kurz in Neu-Türkis. They still do not understand what this is about. I am glad that the President of the Court of Auditors is sitting. From St. Pölten – Pröll, Sobotka, who is even driving around on the government bank – the Court of Auditors has been insulted because the Court of Auditors has revealed with us that in Lower Austria, € 1 or € 2 billion – that is price-dependent – have been speculated with housing funds! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – He still doesn’t believe it! Please ask for the protocol: Lower Austria inconspicuous. – And this thing is always named; that’s why we need a ban on speculation for the federal states – that is also part of it – that really is, a real one, and real limits on liability. All of this is derived from these committees of inquiry, but you do not do it; we will still be here today. However, the promotion of housing is intended, which is quite logical! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's see how you vote there today. And so the little things add up. Assuming small, a number maybe as a supplement: It's about several billion. They are used almost a hundred percent for housing in some federal states – in any case, our representatives in the governments are striving in this direction anyway – but there are countries in which this does not happen exactly, and one of these is primarily Lower Austria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Screams Keep it in! Look for the billions you speculated with your black brothers! – And that’s why, I think, it’s so essential to keep track of this. So: A large economic turnaround also includes the understanding that the tax and tax system must be turned in this direction and not always be allowed to look at the small numbers. Great turn, turn on large wheels, ecological tax reform and also a justice reform! – End of the passage.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17442	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Here you go, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Also the spectators on the gallery and in front of the television are warmly welcomed! The debate on the financial statements also provides the opportunity to think and discuss what our country's economic and financial policy meant and achieved. You have to say honestly, the balance sheet is not a bad one: Economic growth is higher than it was forecast when the 2016 budget was drawn up. The Austrian National Bank even speaks of an increase of 2.8 percent for this year – that is the highest economic growth for ten years. Minister of Social Affairs Alois Stöger also informs us that relaxation is at last beginning in the labour market, because we have created most jobs, as measured by the last decade. We still have problems in the labour market, especially in the case of older people who are very difficult – over 50 – and have therefore also put in place policy measures in this area. But what you see: Yes, this economic success is reflected in the budget, but of course it is also reflected in our growth figures, and it is a success of the Austrian economy, it is a success of entrepreneurs, and it is a success of workers who have ultimately achieved this success and these economic figures. However, it is also to be asked whether economic policy, financial policy, has set the right emphasis. And yes, if you look forward to it, you can also see the political effect, the positive political effect. If you want to call it this way, it is a Faymann-Mitterlehner-Kern effect, because it was the tax reform with a volume of €5 billion that has stimulated domestic demand and private consumption so that the economy has also been given the chance to start again. It is €5.3 billion that will be made in public investment – by the way, €800 million more than in the years ahead, so it is also seen that the public hand has deliberately given rise to future sectors. Finally, it is also social security in Austria, which is responsible for having such a stable climate and ultimately a stable economic climate. But that also means continuing work and continuing the path that has been taken, namely: Tax on work! And if you want to have a balanced budget and want to reduce the tax rate, that means that the justice gap is also closed and, in the case of wealth and inheritance, a compensation of € 1 million or more with an inheritance tax must be created. Of course, it is also important to maintain economy everywhere, both in the administration and on all other issues, but economy is often more than just to save, economy is circular thinking. However, I would like to say that social security is our site advantage, and therefore it is also about keeping secure pensions and sending a clear signal to people that 65 years at 40 years of insurance duration, if you are satisfied with all the claims, are enough, and not, as is now always threatened in the election campaign, that you want to raise the retirement age. We don't want that, that's also unfair, and people also have a right to safety, even in retirement and old age. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak:... with 65 in Pension?]] This not only concerns today's pensioners, but also the security of the NEOS member of the Sherak has already deserved, because even in this age class one should know how long it is still going. [[Abg. Loacker: He's not as old as he looks!]] But that also means promoting equality between workers and employees, and we will discuss it intensively here in the house today, because there is also a gap of justice, and we must equal workers, employees and entrepreneurs in social security. I have heard that Sebastian has announced that he also wanted to, and that is why today we will make a request to this effect and see whether nails are made with heads or whether only talk is spoken. The same applies to housing costs, as the biggest driver in inflation is rental and housing costs. That is why our housing spokesman, an orderly cup, has prepared an entire housing package with which we can finally end the increase in rental and housing costs and this injustice in the housing market. Today I have also read with interest the city newspaper “Falter”, which reports on Sebastian Kurz’s secret plan. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the above - mentioned newspaper with the headline “His Geheimer PLAN” on a photo by Federal Minister Kurz.]] Mr Lopatka also looked here because he also asked himself what the plan of Sebastian Kurz was before he caught him. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Minzig.]] Yes, it was not only the planned flash mob for Sebastian Kurz – perhaps others, still from the time of the bowl, have tried to organize a jazz fair for Sebastian Kurz – but it is also quite different to read. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kogler]] It is important to read how specifically donors have been visited, which one needs for his political career. [[Abg. Fecter: The SPÖ is...! What about...?]] Now, if I'm talking about what's happening politically here, Why are so many large real estate investors and mogules on the Sebastian Kurz donor list?, then we have the answer to the question why the ÖVP does not want to do anything in rental law because the donors say: [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] Get out! No, no, no, We don't want that, we want to continue to make profit! [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] But we say: No, no, no, The tenants in this country deserved to finally have a fair rental right, damn it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we look there, we'll see who's behind it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] It's the big donor who says: But I do not want to pay income tax, I want to continue using the loopholes that the international corporations have! Then we ask ourselves: Why does the Minister of Finance always talk about it, but does nothing? Why are other finance ministers from other countries in Europe who are going ahead but who are asleep? [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] That's the shame! And then we see: The donors who have clearly formulated their interests are behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Awesome!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But we also know that Schelling is obviously history anyway, because we read in the newspapers that the lead foot is coming. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sobotka is now to become finance ministers in order to ultimately enforce these interests of donors. [[Intervocations with the NEOS and the Abg. Kogler.]] We will not allow that; and that is why today we have also prepared a wealth of debates and applications, which we want to see how we talk and how we act. Let us make nails with heads and stand to what is spoken! You're invited to join us.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17696	Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17717	Mr President. Minister! Madam President. I just had a visit from representatives of the Federal Youth Office – and also the Federal Student Office was there. They have conducted an interview with me – they do it with each of the top candidates – and they have asked the following question: What is the biggest problem that Austria currently has? – I said: There was once a German chancellor, who had begun strongly, and he did that well: There is too much power in Austria, too much oblivion on the road in Austria. This is confirmed by the Court of Auditors once again today. Madam President, you have put the 2016 federal accounts on the table here, and you are clearly saying that you are warning: The results of the 2016 Federal Accounts show unplanned risks to this country. We are one of the richest countries in the world, but this red-black government is not capable of coming into a mode that keeps the chances of the next generation fair over all the years and decades. This is an expression of a lack of responsibility that makes me incredibly outraged – and I assume the young people sitting here in our new hall, too. We have had the highest unemployment for 70 years at the beginning of the year. This is the perspective for young people when they come to the labour market. We have the highest public debt in Austria since the founding of the Second Republic; that is, we have imposed almost 60 percent of public debt on it alone in the last eight years. The city of Vienna has tripled its debt in an unhindered orgy over the past eight years and has also hidden something in outsourced areas under red-green. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] There's running and driving, like there's no morning. But we all know that tomorrow is coming; and we also all know that this has, of course, an expiry date, at the latest when the interest is attracting. It will eventually come back to where it was before the crisis. Then overnight debt services will rise massively, the interest rate burden will rise. That is why we need to counter this at a stage in which we have a margin in the approach. So if we are currently feeling a little upswing, Minister of Finance, then we have to take the opportunity to take a small stone out of the backpack of these young people. These young people will no longer be able to stand up; they have no room to move because the debt burden, the interest-rate burden, will push them to the wall. That is why we propose once again these determined structural reforms. It can start in small. The transparency database: It is an increase of the Minister of Finance, Mr Schelling, that the princes, including under the new ÖVP presidency, are still driving, as they have done so far, in the dark. They refuse the transparency of how they use the resources we use as taxpayers in the sweating of our face – up to €30 billion in funding at the federal and state level plus the municipal level in Austria. We don't know where the money is going. [[Abg. Fekter: Oh, yeah, in the hospitals!]] – Yes, Mrs Fekter, there are a lot of useful promotions, but of course also very many worrying, as well as the feeding of friends, and of course this can only take place in the dark. These things would stop if transparency came. That is why we need to make a firm start here in reforms. We have decided on transparency here – you, because we have not yet been there! – but the princes of the country, the princes of darkness do not stick to it. I think that this is an increase in Parliament, in democracy as a whole and in taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We must also ensure that the discharge for people goes forward. People need more money at the end of the month, if then too many bills are open – for a repair of the car, for a purchase of a new washing machine, whatever. In almost no place on this planet people are taken out of the money bag as much as is the case in Austria. The chancellor and the Minister of Finance are secretly getting over the balcony together and with the cold progression every year are taking a deeper step into the money pocket of the citizens. That is why there is another attempt by us to abolish the cold progression, the sluggish tax increase. This morning we brought together a joint proposal with the FPÖ. I'm glad. I've made this up to Pulse 4. After a long time, we'll manage. [[Abg. Schimanek: This is called handshake quality!]] It says, dear ÖVP, in your program that has presented short. That's why I think you should act here after what you announce. We will see today whether the new EIA also does what it promises. I think you're going to fuck up again and just go out as mouth heroes. They proclaim this and do something else, because you do not relieve people. In addition to the joint motion for a resolution with the FPÖ, I am tabling a detailed amendment. We NEOS are mercilessly solution-oriented: We have a goal and we present two different solutions today. You can go with either or with one, or you can speak against the citizens and refuse to do so. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What does that mean? – We want to relieve people, the cold progression, the secret tax increase must go away. The FPÖ has pledged support, the ÖVP has announced it, even the SPÖ announced it last week; and today is the day of revelation. Are you only announcing or are you really acting in the interests of people? - We'll know soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17812	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17906	Mr Schelling, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e17927	Mr President. Madam President. High house! I have a few comments on Mr Schieder's comments. It is quite unheard of to stand out here and make such accusations. I remember the time when he was State Secretary. He is supposed to show a measure against the tax avoidance of him, and I show him the ten I have put! – That will be quite easy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Ten?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But this is a bad bill! You can't fulfill them!]] Don't worry, we'll still be there! Since today the transparency database has been addressed several times: We have discussions with the countries, and it has been agreed that all countries are obliged to register most of the funding – and these are environmental and energy. Upper Austria has agreed to register 100 percent, so register all funding. Lower Austria will follow this example and, Mr Kogler, perhaps you can also encourage your members of the Federal Government to follow this example too. [[Abg. Kogler: State governments!]] This database of transparency is a very, very important instrument for future transparency, together with the draft and financial statements regulation, and this step has been taken. I therefore believe that it is simply important to inform Members who have not yet registered this, because the discussion is actually coming up again and again. If you look at the financial statements and compare them to the budget, you can see that the net result has essentially been achieved, namely that the difference to the budget is only € 132 million. Of course, if you look at the comparison to the previous year, you also have to consider what the special effects from these previous years are. For example, in 2015 there were more than 1 billion € Advance effects from the tax reform, which has worsened the result in 2015 and improved the result in 2016. We have over €2.4 billion of the €3.6 billion that have already been addressed in special effects related to the HETA and which will be rebalanced neutrally in the following years. We had carried out assets in the same way as it has always been agreed with the Court of Auditors. For example, if the ÖBB gets € 1.9 billion from the budget for investments, this does not increase the wealth, but it is only recorded as an issue. We have also carried out a number of corrections made on the basis of the Court of Auditors' recommendation. Among other things, there have been period delimitations in many areas. In addition, we had to take account of invoices, adjust liabilities from the ÖBB annuities grants, and periodically allocates such as cost substitutes. In addition, shifts – which are recognised by looking closely at the financial statements – always come to the conclusion that, for example, in the field of agriculture, time-consuming co-financing with the EU comes about. Therefore, considering the net result again, the difference to the budget is € 132 million. If we look at this with regard to the Maastricht Treaty, we can see that the Maastricht figures of the federal government have been forecast by 1.4 percent and exactly met. The increase from 1.4 to 1.6 percent is caused by social insurance and the city of Vienna. It's easy to prove. A major effect, for example, on social security schemes, was the pensioner, who has just worsened the result. If we look at developments, we can see that, contrary to many of the shortcomings, the tax reform has been very effective, it has stimulated consumption in particular, and that the measures we have put in the field of investment promotion have stabilised growth on a sustainable basis. As so often the comparison with Germany comes: My German colleague would be pleased about our growth rates at the moment, as we are clearly on the front line, and there have been many measures which are also measures from the budgetary performance. We have already discussed the purpose of housing development in detail in the Committee. It makes sense to make such applications, but I would like to point out once again that: The adjustment of housing development means that there is no possibility of applying a purely national tax at the federal level; this option is not provided for. Secondly, as part of the financial compensation, we have noted that countries have to submit two-year housing programmes in order to ensure that housing funds are actually used for housing. What has been said here by Mr Kogler on the subject of taxation is clear: The greens stand for tax increases. [[Abg. Kogler: No!]] [[Abg. Maurer: Move!]] I don't stand for tax increases. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Move! Not anymore, better!]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to the following experience of this morning regarding tax avoidance: I have made a request in the Council of Ministers that I can renegotiate the double taxation agreement with Ireland, because one of the major initiatives we have set up at European level is the establishment of a digital facility to ensure that we can capture and tax these digital revenues. We now have an interim solution at European level, which is very controversial and which has not yet been decided to develop the so-called compensatory tax, but which is related to turnover, which, of course, is quite a break in the tax system. India is doing this, and from the European point of view we want to produce pressure. We have agreed with the OECD that at the beginning of next year a proposal we have prepared will be evaluated accordingly and that this digital facility will be implemented. It was only interesting this morning that I received the message that the SPÖ, which is a major tax avoidance party, would not agree to the agreement if additional funds for culture were not released in return. Now you know what I mean by the concept of cow trafficking, I've presented it here more often; New Deal has little to do with it. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So it was very hard to get through. The mandate has now been given, and I can renegotiate this double taxation agreement, regardless of the OECD's decision with Ireland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have implemented PEPs, we have implemented settlement price documentation, we have implemented country-by-country reporting, the OECD has confirmed that everything that has come from the OECD in the framework of tax avoidance practices has been best implemented by Austria; and we have now taken this great start with the digital establishment, which, by the way, includes the conclusions of the Council in Estonia one on one of the Austrian proposal. On the basis of this paper, it is now being debated, so I do not need to be accused by a clubman of arbitration, the others being diligent and we would sleep. This may have been an election speech for his candidate as a mayor in Vienna, but in the House it has nothing to look for!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18069	Mr Mag. Groiß has now been reported in word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18091	Mr President. Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Today, we have three agenda items to discuss in this block, a large billing and also a forward-looking item on housing development. I understand that it is an election campaign and that is why we like to discuss everything else, not just the issues that exist here. I would say that it is a little a matter of failure to discuss the billing, but I would like to discuss new rental rates from Vienna or elsewhere. [[Abg. Kogler: Sorry! They have proposed the promotion of housing as a point of negotiation...!]] I would like to thank the Minister for speaking exactly to what is actually being discussed here. The financial statements have been presented, and we are discussing how to compare the budget we have decided with the accounts. It's come out that we're relatively close, very close. [[Abg. Kogler: He doesn't even know the agenda!]] That is why the closure of accounts is a positive conclusion of this government, which we can decide today. At the same time, however, I would like to discuss the contributions to housing, which is a topic for the future. In the financial compensatory negotiations, it was noted that we are setting out a country autonomy for the first time in this regard, and we are starting with these housing promotion contributions. Residential construction is a country matter and, accordingly, all parties have always noted that the countries are to be taken into responsibility in financing. This is happening today. This is a milestone in Austrian tax history, which we are setting today with this item on the agenda. [[Abg. Kogler: But there is no purpose.]] We are implementing a number of things on this item on the agenda: We are implementing that countries can have free access to the amount of this contribution. There's no upper limit, there's no lower limit. This means that the countries themselves can determine the importance of housing and how much money they want to spend in order to be able to spend accordingly. It is also important that countries are not told how to make housing and for what exactly they should spend these contributions. That is why we have not supported the Greens' request in the Committee, in which the purpose is to be precisely defined. [[Abg. Kogler: Why? Now we have a two-thirds majority, now we can apply for that!]] We did not support this in the Committee, we said. I also do not understand the approach of NEOS, who also want to make party policy on the issue of accounting. You want to pack some things in to give you a sugar tax. Actually, that's not your way. You are a serious troupe, and granting tax sugar in the previous session before the election is not your taste. [[Abg. Strolz: Stand on the government program!]] We are in favour of implementing what we want to decide together, and in this sense I hope that we can take decisions in such a way that we can continue to look into ourselves so that we do not have to generate before the Austrians that we do not decide today things that we cannot pay tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18180	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18202	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Another comment on the Clubobmann Scatter: If you listen to him like that, then you almost believe that there was a government of the ÖVP alone and that colleagues were not involved in the government at all. Another comment: The SPÖ wants to close the gap of justice with new taxes, but one can also make savings. To finance the closure of justice gaps exclusively with new taxes is not our system. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] I would also not call the abolition of cold progression as an election sugar, because in reality the abolition of cold progression means that we give back to the population what we have previously taken away from it without a legislative decision. If I give back something I've taken away before, it can never be an election sugar. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] In order to eliminate the cold progression, there is only one point in the Income Tax Act. However, the Federal Government was not even able to formulate this one paragraph, and therefore it is no wonder that this government has failed. In international comparison, with a tax rate of more than 43 percent in 2016, we are still at the top of the highest tax countries. Austria is one of the few countries in the EU to which the EU Commission predicts real wage losses for both 2017 and 2018. Only by abolishing the cold progression can the middle class be permanently and truly relieved, but not by new taxes such as the investment and the anti-location of the SPÖ's machine tax or an inheritance and gift tax. Although this would currently be limited to amounts of more than € 1 million, we know, then the tax revenue will be so low that the administration costs more than the surplus, and gradually the limit will be pushed down. [[Abg. Krainer: The opposite!]] Finally, the middle class remains dependent again, and this inheritance and gift tax will then massively burden the middle class again. [[Abg. Krainer: Millionaire Protector!]] Although the SPÖ and the ÖVP have repeatedly declared that the cold progression must be abolished, the black and red government has so far lacked the courage, but also the fairness to do so. In reality, the SPÖ will continue to have the opportunity to distribute in the framework of tax reforms money that the SPÖ has previously taken away from taxpayers. In order to avoid the possibility to make tax reforms at the expense of taxpayers in the future, I would like to make the following request for the abolition of cold progression and I am very pleased that NEOS have also joined our request:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18285	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18367	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Kraker, is now on the floor. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18390	Mr President. High house! I can start by saying that, of course, I am also happy when the economy attracts again, but I also have to say that there is nothing to be pleased with at the 2016 Federal Accounts, because it shows a clear picture. The clear picture of the financial situation of our state is that the negative trend unfortunately continued in 2016. One has to take note of this too, a turnaround in the trend has not succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen! We are at the end of a legislative period and also in the middle of the election campaign. We already pointed out in June, when we presented the financial statements, that there is a risk of short-term implementation of measures not included in the budget planning, as these risks can have a negative impact on public finances. I would therefore like to renew my appeal at this point, and I would like to say once again that attention should also be paid to the long-term financing of measures in the campaign, because we must keep our state budget in order at all times and also in elections. I can now briefly explain to you the key facts of the 2016 financial statements and thus show you a picture of the financial statements and financial statements. We see that the net financing balance is around €5 billion in the minus and thus by €3.1 billion above the value of 2015. The net result is also almost twice as bad as in 2015. The statement of results – that is the difference to the financial statement – shows us that we are moving payment obligations into the future. These are shown in the statement of results. The development in 2016 was due to a decrease in income from taxes, in particular by the decrease in wage and capital income taxes, by increased operating costs and by the increase in transfer costs. The foreign funds – that has already been said – significantly exceeded the assets. This results in a balance that we call negative net assets, which is minus €162 billion. It worsened by 5.4 percent. Financial debt in 2016 amounted to €208 billion. There was an increase of €8.6 billion, and this represents an increase of 10 percent of the total budget. This led to a very unfavourable state of public debt. Positively, the tax rate has fallen by 1.1 percentage points to 42.7 percent in 2016, not least through the tax reform. The Budget Committee discussed the subject of budgetary assessment of participations. In this respect, the Minister of Finance has already noted that, in the course of the evaluation of the budgetary reform, one could think about how to carry out the federal wealth situation and the assessment of participations. I can say that the Court of Auditors, which is involved in these regulations – the proposal comes from the Minister of Finance – is also ready for discussion. However, I would like to say that we have, of course, taken a very strict approach to budgetary law when drawing up the accounts. I would like to say something about medium-term planning. You decided here at the end of March 2017 to postpone the update of the Federal Financial Framework. As a result, the financial framework for the years 2017 to 2020 is still the last one. There's a financial framework, but it's not up-to-date. A new financial framework will only be adopted together with a new federal financial law. This may, of course, create risks to future budgets if not everything is included in the planning. To conclude, let me say something about the drawing up of the federal accounts! As President of the Court of Auditors, I see the need for a clear separation of responsibilities with regard to the issue of drawing up and auditing accounts. Fortunately, this view is also shared by the Minister of Finance and by the members of the Budget Committee. Essentially, it must be stressed that the transparency of public finances is ensured and that Austria meets international standards. A working group has been set up in the Court of Auditors for this purpose. The question of how we want to proceed here will certainly be decided by the next National Council. Finally, I would like to thank all those who participated in drawing up the 2016 financial statements. It is also a huge work for the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank our own employees in the Court of Auditors, I thank the Federal Ministry of Finance for their good cooperation, and I would also like to thank the entire National Council at this point. We're at the end of a legislative period. I would like to thank the members of the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgets for their good cooperation with the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18452	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18476	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! What basic statements do we recognize in the 2016 federal accounts? – The impact of the tax reform is noticeable. What were the objectives of this reform? – The objectives were to relieve labour, economic growth and more jobs. Let's look at economic growth! We have already heard it today, it is far above the forecasts, at almost 2.8 percent. There is a meaningful WIFO economic report to this end. In this we can read, in various industries, whether for service companies or in the construction industry, the order situations are excellent, the developments are very, very positive. I can quote from this report: ‘Austria belonged to II. quarter to euro area countries with the strongest economic growth." The labour market situation: The unemployment rate has dropped across Austria, for the first time since 2008. I can use the Styria as an example. In the Graz-Umgebung district, which I can politically represent here, youth unemployment has fallen by 25 percent. That doesn't happen by itself. This is due to sustainable and far-sighted initiatives that a government has put under the overall responsibility of the Federal Chancellor Christian Kern. Action 20 000, employment bonuses and apprenticeships have resulted in 80 000 more jobs. Work is something that is particularly important for young families. Another point for young people, for families is a quiet living room. If we know that 1.6 million households are sensitive under drastic rental increases, Then it's unacceptable. What can you do about it? – Well, you can cancel the broker fees for tenants. It is not to be seen that these fees must be paid by the tenants, where in 90 percent of cases the landlords commissioned the brokers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the possibility? – We can animated investors to invest in non-profit housing. The result would be 3 000 more apartments per year. Ladies and gentlemen, we see the sustainable initiatives that the Federal Government and Federal Chancellor Christian Kern have put into effect. We want this successful path to continue. That's why my appeal is: ==References== October the Social Democracy in Austria with Christian Kern for Social Justice and Security! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18527	Mr Köchl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18549	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Our bureaucrats! Values of bureaucrats! [[The speaker makes an advertising panel of the Greens with the title “Employee Work must pay off” on the speaker’s desk.]] I take the fact that we have the Income Tax Act here on the agenda, on the occasion of making a request as regards the low-value economic property. This is a point of many that we, as a green party last year, have discussed with about 100 self-employed from all the federal states to determine what would be the most important thing for these many individual companies, where they could be taken under the arms. A brochure has just been completed in which we brought together 50 reliefs for self-employed people and really worked out with the practitioners. [[a brochure with the title “Working self-employed must pay off”]] There are many, many small points, and because I am very pragmatic and implementation-oriented, I have picked out one of these points today. This concerns low-quality economic assets. You know that: You can purchase up to 400 € They immediately drop off tax when it goes beyond – the famous smartphone or laptop – it takes its years. This is partly not very practical. If you look at inflation developments, you have to double this alone before this aspect if you want to take this as an argument. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height on which a graphic with the development of inflation can be seen]] There is now a request I would like to make to increase this value limit from €400 to €1500, but perhaps some more, which is burning among the nails of the self-employed, the 300 000 EPC in Austria: You can think that the minimum corporation tax is a matter because, if the founding privilege has expired, taxes are due for at least €7 000 a year, although it may not have occurred at all. The issue is industrial social security, which is constantly being discussed, in which we believe that 45 social security institutions are too much, which must be summarized. We Greens also believe that the first thousands a month should be tax-free. This means that the tax limit should be shifted from €11 000 to €12 000. This may seem little now, but a thousand tax-free more at 25 percent tax burden means a concrete relief of 250 €. This is already a real step in the area where income is not as high as the EPUs. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] There's something we've brought together, you can read it all. I would say that many of these measures cost almost nothing, but help our performance providers. For example, a proposal is to push back the bureaucracy as far as the working room is concerned, because now you have to calculate exactly the square meters if you want to put off a working room tax. A workplace should simply be able to claim flat-rate, amounting to 900 € per year, i.e. 75 € per month, then you save yourself the conversion with square meters. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I have referred to social security, there are many other issues: financing, of course, but of course also the trade regulations, which we have recently slightly reformed – but in reality, they need to be rewritten. You can read this: 50 reliefs for self-employed people. I shall now bring in one of these points and hope that he will find your agreement. It is formulated as an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is, by the way, a requirement as represented by the Chamber of Commerce. The liberal economy represents this, I have read it, and the Social Democratic Association represents an increase in this limit of value. This has actually been consensus, but surprisingly not yet implemented, because of this advance. That's a theme. I would also like to make a request to Mr Werner Kogler on the purpose of promoting housing. He's a formal reader, so that's why it's a little bumpy right now. Amendment tabled by Mr Kogler, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: Amendment 2269/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Members of Parliament is amended as follows: 1. In Article 3, the following Z 8a is inserted after Z 8: “8a. § 16 para. 1 Z 3 reads: ‘3. (Constitutional provision) from 2018 onwards the contribution to housing development for the purpose of financing the promotion of housing and housing renovation in the sense of environmental and social sustainability;’ 2. In Article 3, the following Z 8b is inserted: ‘8.b. In § 16 it is according to Abs. 1 following para. 1a inserted: ‘(1a) (Constitutional provision) The countries have the Federal Minister for Finance until 31 December. Each year an annual report on the use of the housing aid contribution shall be submitted. The Federal Minister for Finance, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, shall lay down the detailed principles for drawing up the reports after consulting the countries.” 3. In Article 3, the following Z 9a is inserted after Z 9: “9a. Paragraph 27(7), after the word ‘for the purpose of financing the promotion of housing’, inserts the word ‘for the implementation of environmental, climate and social objectives’ and, after the term ‘(7)’, the phrase ‘the Constitutional provision’. 4. In Article 3, the following Z 1a is inserted in Z 10 in Section 30(1)(a) after Z 1: “1a. (Constitutional provision) §16 para. 1 Z 3, §16 para. 1a and §27 para. 7 with 1. January 2018;’ This was a bit clumsy, but this is the form requirement and is intended to help make people in Austria more comfortable to live in the future if you decide on this amendment today. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18639	Both amendments are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18796	Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18819	Mr President. Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! The Court of Auditors is concerned about the federal financial situation. – Rightly, ladies and gentlemen, we really need action! The pension system can no longer be financed without reforms, and it also looks like the social system. We urgently need reforms. What we need is a real debt brake. Anyone who manages a household knows that you can't spend more than you can take over in the long run, or if we already have record tax revenue anyway. Our Minister of Finance has rightly said: We do not have a revenue problem, but an expenditure problem. So it is, in fact, and nevertheless, there are several sugars in the room. Only when you listen to the speeches, especially our social democratic friends! Interestingly, if your survey results are bad, ladies and gentlemen, you will come with particularly irresponsible electoral sugars. You think of the famous hackler scheme that costs billions, you now also think about renting! You may think of cheap rents within the meaning of your own rents at the party headquarters, as you enjoy. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But please forget. You don't: There is not free lunch. Only on a liberalized housing market there is an offer, and whenever there is a wide range, then prices and otherwise not. Just before choosing one thing or another, it's just the purest populism. You should rather listen to the voters during the legislative period rather than just before the election, if you seem to be afraid to lose your power. [[Abg. Brosz: Say this briefly!]] All that is now spent is missing the next generation. Margaret Thatcher has already said true: “The problem with socialism is that sometime the money of the other people goes out.” – That’s it, ladies and gentlemen! Not only in the election campaign, but especially, you, dear friends of the social democratic ranks, are the concept of social justice. This has become an ideological concept of struggle. Everyone can interpret what he believes. [[Abg. Heinzl: (in terms of the Taferl left by the previous speaker at the speaker's desk) The best thing about the speech is the Taferl at the front!]] But if you are already talking about justice, you also have to say that it would be just if you could work something out, build something through hard work, talent and hard work. If you work hard and are diligent, you must not be the stupid one, who may still be harassed by the labour inspectorate or by other foreign regulations, and who may still have a red-green asset tax in the house. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, also means that you can work out something without someone coming and taking what is supposed to be his. The budget also notes that in particular many minimum security transfers flow to Vienna. In May of this year, according to the office of SPÖ-Socialstadtratin Frauenberger, there were even more foreign minimum insurance beneficiaries than Austrian recipients for the first time. Of course, hungry people who are there cannot be left on the street. All this is clear, we need a good social system, but immigration into our social system is urgently stopped. It is not possible for asylum seekers to obtain as much minimum security and social benefits as people who have spent a lifetime in the system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is deeply unfair. Benefits must not be decoupled from remuneration. People simply find it unfair that someone who doesn't do anything, although he could, gets almost as much money from the state as one who gets up every day and works hard. What we need now and in the future next to a good and strong social system, ladies and gentlemen, is performance justice instead of irresponsible electoral sugars. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18905	I suggest that the next speaker of the Greens should be a sign of the ÖVP. Mrs Gamon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18927	Mr President. I am pleased that I am also allowed to speak as a youth speaker to conclude the federal accounts. It shows – and many have already said this before me, which is rather surprising – that the irrationality and injustice that are cast into figures is against the next generations. This policy will be forgotten for future generations. I would also like to suggest that we also rob them of part of their democratic rights, because this money, which we are planning now and are now paving, is money that will no longer be available to future generations to make their own decisions to decide where they want to invest where they want to focus. The budget service also expressed this in a footnote of the analysis: “This change in negative net assets is an indicator of financial sustainability and the intergenerative distribution effect of budgetary management.” – This meant of course: It looks rather bad with the intergenerative distribution effect. One can make it clear to this figure how unscrupulous dealing with the Austrians' money is, and that our Republic's assets amount to minus €161 billion – so it's a negative asset. The total assets of € 31 billion and € 26 billion of investments face € 253 billion of debt. That means that we have to sell all our assets in triple execution in order to recover it again. If you get dizzy, you just have to look at the people's net debt, that's 20 000 € per head. This development, of course, entails even more risks through interest-rate services. The Court of Auditors has also criticised this extremely sharply, and I quote again: ‘There is also a risk to future budgets in view of the current historically low interest rate if it should rise again’. – Of that, I think you can go out. Then, of course, there are the measures that are not envisaged in the Federal Finance Act 2017 and which are not planned in the financial framework, which can and will act as short-term as possible, as we already know. The Court of Auditors proves that we have problems and that it needs a turnaround in the management of the budget in Austria. Now I think it would also be our duty as politicians to address the really unpopular and nevertheless necessary things particularly in the election campaign – whether it be inefficient in the health system, in administration or in double-tracks in the pension system. Actually, I'm a little surprised that this is always the case with the ÖVP. has come back. For where does our debt come from, on which we are already sitting? He didn't go through anything. I also looked at what the debate on this point was like last year. Mr Krainer said from the SPÖ that the situation was mainly due to the austerity programmes. Well, what was it this year? Mr Tamandel said last year that the tax reform was then due to the budgetary situation. What was it this year? What do we have every year for a new excuse that we have not managed to budget properly that we have not managed to reduce the debt? It is very positive that the Court of Auditors also has a critical distance to government work. The Court of Auditors, in particular, represents the next generation and the next generation, which are obviously not largely represented in this Parliament and do not have a strong lobby here, which is advocating that they still have room for manoeuvre in the future to make their own decisions. This requires a few unpopular and very difficult things in the next few years. It is also our job as politicians to address these things, because if we do not, no one will do it, and then we are heading towards a very bitter end. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18975	The next speaker is Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e18996	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Federal accounts are always a good opportunity to check whether different statements and speeches – not in this House, but in those we have so far spoken – correspond to the truth, respectfully whether all that has occurred, which has been given by itself, in particular by parts of the ÖVP, by the FPÖ, by NEOS; my two previous speakers have also made the same mistake again. [[Abg. Themessl: The SPÖ was in the government!]] All began with Mr Leitl's statement that the country had been sent down, and then one tried to have the story together: The country is going in the wrong direction, we are falling back economically. Studies and rankings were presented, which in reality cannot be more dubious. We're overbureaucratized. It has been said as follows: The protection of workers is a relic of history, it must be eliminated. The crowning of this whole debate was then: If we introduce the 12-hour day, then milk and honey will flow again, then we will have economic growth and so on. In the same breath, the social partners were presented as a relic of history, and they said: The chambers can be removed anyway. In reality, this is the general attack on the land collective contract. All this has been heard in recent years, and the stupid thing is: The G’s layer, which was built there, is not working now, because economic growth is increasing and unemployment is falling. And all the parameters you've defined were based on the fact that that's not the case. It does not allow us to tell this story, and it is also perfectly clear that we must try to continue the path that has been taken and the steps that have been taken accordingly. My previous speakers are here and say yes, we have to save, and thankfully they are saying that at pensions and at the social level, because in reality all of this is no longer eligible for funding. Tell me exactly where you want to cut in, because this is always the funny one: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Regenerator]] First of all, we have to save, then we are generally swirling around the surface, and if it becomes concrete, then you are ousting yourself, have no concrete statements. Thankfully, someone of you has now also said publicly how to do this and how Mr Schüssel did it at the time. [[Abg. Neubauer: Faymann was Chancellor!]] This is said very generally in advance, because the bad things have to be done afterwards, because otherwise the voters do not put up with the small cans – clamps, the claws, clamps. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why it is perfectly clear what workers can expect if you can draw up the things you have done. And the liberals are still standing by and saying that we are the evil ones who want to introduce new taxes, because we want to introduce an inheritance tax of €1 million. Then I can only say: Whoever expects anything of it because of the little woman and the little man will be on the wood road. And that's why it's perfectly clear that these things can't work like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19071	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19093	A word quickly, ladies and gentlemen, the High House and the TV screens. Mr Katzian, no one in the FPÖ would like to abolish the Chambers. Cite that right! We want to abolish compulsory membership. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the difference?]] [[Abg. Themessl: What's the difference, he asks! Now we have to explain that too!]] – Like the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, where you can or may not be a volunteer member. The compulsory membership is bad! If a performance is good, someone will like to pay his contribution if the performance does not match, then not, even that is democratic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Schelling, you are right: no cow trafficking, less cow trafficking. Dr. Kocher, head of the Institute for Higher Studies, has just recently published a study in which he found that the most expensive form of government is the black-red or the red-black, the big, now medium coalition. This was found in this study with the argument that both ÖVP and SPÖ must satisfy their clients and, of course, lead to massive debt and promises. That is why this form of government is simply the most expensive. Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur, if you say there should be no redundancies before the election, I would like to ask you: Please vote briefly with your Foreign Minister, who is going through the country and promises everything. That doesn't seem to work. And please explain to me: How will all the election promises be implemented? So what doesn't work today is supposed to be after the 15th. Work October? I don't think politics works either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ÖVP remains ÖVP – whether turquoise or black is sausaged. Where black stands, black is inside, and that will always be the truth. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Finanzminister! One thing is incontrovertible, however, that in the last government period, a 100 percent industry has come under the wheels, namely the tourism industry. This too has just been noted, and that is why we are making a start by the Freedom Party today to finally correct this mistake. The tourism industry stands for rural areas, and there is an urgent need for relief. I note that the increase in VAT from 10 to 13 percent was an attack on the industry, and it was also an attack on the industry to extend the depreciation period from 33.3 to 40 years, from the previous 25 years. This is totally non-practice and non-reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Each of us knows that the tourism industry needs to invest, and thank God it is investing. This ensures jobs in rural areas, which we really value and do not want to leave in the face of empty promises. That is why the discharge of this sector is urgently needed, and today and here for our group I can make two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] Show character, help the industry, which has been so massively under the wheels in recent years, from tax burdens to a redundancie, which many entrepreneurs in this industry suffer from continuing to work in this industry. Do not forget that this sector is not only extremely important for export, but also creates jobs in rural areas for our employees and must also ensure and have the opportunity to continue to secure jobs in rural areas. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At least 25 years, that's the minimum! Dear colleagues – and now I really look towards ÖVP –: You promise the industry every day, you always say you stand for the rural area. Make You here today, nails with heads, stand up, let the sector, which is so immensely important for rural areas, create jobs, secure jobs, not continue to be in the rain! Without tourism, there is no chance, no future, especially in rural areas! Of course, cooperation between agriculture and tourism is also important and necessary, but only a functioning tourism industry can fulfil this function. I'm asking for support: Go inside, help the industry, make these senseless burdens that contradict any reality to nothing! Let's go a common way! I would ask you to support us as a Freedom Party in this election. We stand for rural areas, we stand for the tourism industry, and not only for the election, but always because we are so aware of the need. I can also draw attention to our tourism programme. I'm asking for support, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19216	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19397	Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19418	Mr President. Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! A successful state has two main things to do: to ensure security and, secondly, to ensure financial stability. If we look at the federal accounts, then he is undoubtedly inconvenient with this deficit. But that's not the finance minister's fault. On the contrary! He's one who's always looking at the fact that not too much is spent. It is more a political disease of all of us that we believe the more we spend, the better we are, the more popular we are, the more likely we are to be elected. Former Finance Minister Hannes Androsch once said: “The budget is the nation’s book of fate.” And the Governor of the National Bank, Ewald Novotny, is constantly warning us of making too big a deficit because we would then be under pressure on the financial market and international financial markets, and that we have to look at the fact that we have financial scope. Indeed, what we do – and the last bond – is that we owe our children, children and children children over the long term, up to 100 years. And that is actually irresponsible. If we look at what is being discussed and voted here today, then we are going very, very in the wrong direction. More than 50 percent of the requests we are voting on today – I have looked at them – are only going in the direction that we are spending more money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have no imagination in another direction. It is about spending more on one side, and on the other hand raising more taxes. This is the wrong way – let alone that we still operate corporate hetze, that we have privatisation phobics and bring in other neosocialistic plan economic ideas – I speak of the housing market. All this leads us to what Friedrich August von Hayek once described as “The Way to Slavery”. We're going this way that he described decades ago! In reality, ladies and gentlemen – and this must also be said in this House – we need more competition, we need more market economy, we need more entrepreneurship. If we bring all of this together, we don't need to talk about new taxes. But it is a matter of course that we first have to bake the cake and can only distribute it. 90 percent of politicians believe that it's exactly the other way round: that you're first distributed and then you get the money. And that's the completely wrong way. We need more freedom, more entrepreneurship! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And to move forward with good example, I'll be 9. From November to November, my sandwiches only deserve on the free market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19483	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19505	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Vetter, I can assure you that: What I am proposing now will lead to a discharge of people and not a burden, and that is exactly what you want, and I hope that you will be able to do so. In the last few days we have talked a lot about this, and we have also read a lot about how to proceed in the rental law, which groups should be relieved of who is to be taxed. I believe that this is an issue that we must continue to devote ourselves to, because one is probably a fact and is also out of dispute here in this House: that housing costs in Austria have now become almost unbearable and burdened households too much. On the one hand, there is a very tough model and perhaps on the other hand proposals, but I believe that this system is still not gone, and that is what all the experts tell us, and that is what we are actually reading in all the daily newspapers. Where we can really do something and take out some pressure from the cooking pot of high rents or housing costs, is in things where the state takes something that no longer opposes. There is, for example, the rental contract fee. This is a fee from the time of Maria Theresias, where the financial officer set up the contract and demanded a fee for it. Today, however, this fee is no longer a service of the state at all, but – quite the contrary! – for something is collected, a paper tax or something similar, in any case, there is no justification anymore to remove this fee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a fee that affects those who are the hardest affected by rising housing costs, namely the young families who need a larger home because of family growth, or the young people who move to a new home for the first time when they move out of home. These are the ones that are most disadvantaged by the high rents or the rental increases, because they are getting hit right there. It is therefore important to relieve these people at the very beginning, to give them a little chance to pay less at the beginning. That is why I have tabled a request on which we shall be voting at the end and for which I hope for broad approval, because – we have seen it – it is Already in the second government agreement, many parties have announced their support for this request to abolish the rental contract fee, and today is really the time when we can really do something quickly. On the whole rental right, I think, we must have a serious discussion, with consideration, with an expert hearing, and then put on a broad consensus here in the House. Quickly, something needs to be done, fast, no Hush-Fush action: Discuss rental law properly, abolish rental contract fees quickly, relieve people, even before the choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19559	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19580	Mr President. Estimated Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That we debate the 2016 financial statements so strongly today is right, but it is much being directed in the wrong direction. We see the negative effects which are also included in this financial statement. No one really speaks of them at all, and then you have to say that the HETA and the hypo treatment are naturally included there. If we were to anticipate this, the billing would look completely different than it was now brought to paper. However, we can only see the fruits of this ITA-degradation company in the next financial statements, where the decommissioning company will then comment on the 2017 financial statements. What saddens me equally is if you take the expenses from the covenant, but no property, what you own, enters into this billing, then it does not embellish the image at all, but worsens it. It should also be borne in mind by the Court of Auditors that our properties, which we own, also have a certain value factor and ultimately belong to this billing. But what is being fabricated here today by certain people who say that the tax reform has not brought about anything, that the Chamber of Labour is doing bad work and that the labour factor does not have any relief, yes, ladies and gentlemen, who has made it possible? – Over 900 000 trade unionists' signatures under the direction of the PRO-GE have ultimately pressured the ÖVP so that we have implemented the tax reform and have also boosted the economy. The labour factor must continue to be relieved, i.e. we must get down with the wage amounts so that more net of gross remains. However, we also need to discuss working time. If you look into the same corner, that is to say to the ÖVP, I have to say that the flakes are about flexibility, and the Chamber of Labour is on the other hand, and we don't want them anymore. I'm telling you, too, why: Mr and Mrs Österischer are doing 340 million overtime in this state this year, and only 140 million are paid. Yeah, where's the ÖVP? Well, already funny, basking around the factor work, and then the new keyword comes: Working time-sparbook. Ladies and gentlemen, what is a working time fair? This is in Foreign Minister Kurz's programme. So, that means we'll work for free in the future. My working time comes into a savings book, and if the bubble destroys the savings book or a company slid into insolvency, the worker has nothing of it. We will resist this, and we will inform our people, and that will not happen to us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is also said when we talk about labour relief and inheritance taxes: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, which employee, which workers will have to expect an inheritance of over € 1 million in the next few years? I don't know any of them, no one. So: Get away with this protective coat, and it will probably not be impossible to get this percentage – the rest of the Austrians – and that is at least 95 percent, deliver their taxes – from the rest, from the last 5 percent of the EIA. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19623	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19644	Mr President. High house! Since I was already excluded from the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, I am of course pleased that I am here... – Moment, Moment, Minister of Finance! [[Federal Minister Schelling: You were not excluded, you just had no right to speak!]] You know that the Rules of Procedure state that it is free for the members of the Committee to allow someone to discuss or not, and I have not been allowed to vote with your Group, the SPÖ and the Freedoms. That's how it looks! Mrs. Nachbaur, you have spoken about constituency sugar. [[Call the ÖVP: Right! Right!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But listen!]] [[Complaints and further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I like what you said. The candidate party, which expressed the largest election sugar, was the ÖVP, the election sugar of Mr. Kurz: Under the title ‘New Justice’, the corporate tax is to be abolished for profits not collected. This leads to a failure of €4 billion on the spot. Well, it can also become much more, it can be 7 to 8 billion €. This is also confirmed by Ms. Sabine Kirchmayr of the Institute for Financial Law at the University of Vienna. My estimates go in exactly the same direction. With one stroke, you'll completely erase the revenue from corporate tax, which currently account for €8 billion. [[Abg. Reproducer: But there are jobs created!]] But that's not enough. Who do you like with this, Mrs. Nachbaur? The many small GmbHs? - No, you don't. The big companies are favourable to you with this because two and a half percent of the total corporate tax on the entire company has income in corporate tax of more than 50 percent. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nachbaur and Mr Tamandel.]] But that's not enough. This will not result in us having the major growth and employment effects. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What you are still doing with this proposal is to reintroduce the tax benefits for private foundations through the back door, and that is really one of the biggest tax scandals we have in the Second Republic. [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Pilz and Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] They rave corporate tax revenue and carry out long-conquered believed benefits for private foundations – but not only for the 3 800 private sponsors, but for everyone – again, because tax is taxed only when profits are collected. If the profits are not collected, then the proceeds are tax-free, as you know from the old foundations, and that is what I find very scandalous under the heading “The New Justice”. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Cynical!]] By the way, for the many millions of self-employed employees you have just left €3 to €4 billion for a wage and income tax reduction. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nachbaur and Mr Tamandel.]] And those who do not pay a wage and income tax, those 2.5 million Austrians, will receive zero cent according to the proposals of the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, they don't pay taxes either!]] Mrs. Rebaur, if you look at the tax bonus for children of 1 500 €: 40 percent of all children are excluded from this tax bonus. This is the new tax justice à la ÖVP! Now to the invoice itself: I really have to thank the President of the Court of Auditors for fully confirming my criticisms that I have on the statement of results and assets. Not only that, the 2016 financial statement clearly shows that it is actually much worse to order the proper accounting at the federal government than I have ever imagined in my boldest dreams. The Court of Auditors shows enormous shortcomings not only in the statement of results, but also – and that is new – in the statement of assets. I can't list all the points now, but of course it would be very tempting. And what does that show? – This shows that the Court of Auditors is putting its finger on a wound point. It shows that the understanding of the income and wealth bill is very modest in all departments, but, Minister of Finance, also in your department. It seems that there is simply a lack of the necessary expertise, and there is no significant progress towards proper accounting. I think that's sad. A few more points on the debate you have with Mr Schieder: I would not say that you slept, Mr. Finanzminister, but I would say that you have blocked over and over again. You have blocked the implementation of the country-by-country reporting, I think with ridiculous arguments.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19757	The speaking time has expired. I beg you to come to a close. Last sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19773	But they have also blocked it when it comes to the implementation of the 4. Money laundering directive has gone on in terms of transparency, the disclosure of last-time beneficiaries of trusts and foundations and more, because you feel that private foundations are very transparent anyway. – With no exception, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19811	Mrs Mag. Aubauer is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19833	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fact that we are discussing the federal financial situation today is also a sign to me, a warning, namely a warning to not distribute billion-dollar sugars, because the debt is already enormously high. Madam President, Mr Kraker mentioned it earlier: converted per capita, each Austrian has €37 000 in debt. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you, ÖVP!]] From this debt mountain we have to go down, and that's also in our program. Why? Let's look at our grandchildren! What about her? We bear the responsibility that they once get good education, best health care, an intact environment. It's also part of that that we don't have to fry all the money and miss our granddaughter a bigger debt backpack. We talked about justice. Our goal is generation justice! For us, that means: No generation shall live at the expense of the next. No sugars of choice! Get down from the debt mountain! Responsible economy! This also includes combating fraud and abuse. An example: Within two years, some 600 000 e-cards have disappeared. What does that mean? – We need the photo on the e-card, fast to fight abuse. And we need harder consequences when abuse is detected. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We know: Good tax money also sends in the structures. In this context, I would like to congratulate Sebastian Kurz on winning the former President of the Court of Auditors Josef Moser for his team, for I am convinced: Moser will be very careful here in the National Council to ensure that our good tax money arrives where it is supposed to be: in the affected! [[Call to the FPÖ: Why do they report only now?]] What we really need is that someone who actually needs help gets it. Personally, the expansion of palliative and hospice supplies is especially important to me. In this context, a thank you to our Minister of Finance for leading the start-up funding, the first stage of expansion. But I would like to say quite clearly: Our objective is to provide regular funding from the budget, because no one is allowed to be left alone at the end of his life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Generational justice, responsible economy, no new taxes, no new debt, security for the elderly, security for the young – that sounds good. The question remains: Can you do that? – I am convinced: We can do this with good will and new courage. Ladies and gentlemen, we both have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19886	The next item is the speech by Mr Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19908	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, listeners and listeners! My speech is about a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a Blum-Bonus. As we all know, the shortage of skilled workers is a challenge for the future in a dimension that we have not expected. To prevent this, it is necessary to ensure that appropriate apprenticeship training is also carried out. Unfortunately, it is God’s way that many businesses are no longer willing to train apprentices because, on the one hand, there is not enough quality and, on the other hand, the costs of this training are too high. In 2008, the Blum bonus was abolished. An apprenticeship package has been introduced. However, this apprenticeship package has not provided enough new apprenticeships like the Blum-Bonus, which has led to 12 500 new apprenticeships. That is why, as we believe, we need to introduce a new flower bonus with a quality assurance, i.e. that we want a 2 000 € loyalty bonus for the training companies for a maximum of two apprentices per company and that we want an additional bonus of 3 000 € for all companies that train more apprentices, but limited to five apprentices, and a 3 000 € quality bonus in the middle of the teaching period, which controls the quality of the training. That is why my motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e19965	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20038	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20057	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate, the costs of refugee care are constantly criticized, but also discussed. What is certainly true is that when we force people to do nothing, we still have expenditure for it. This is not satisfactory for both sides. That is why the SPÖ proposed and enforced the year of integration. It has recently entered into force. What is this integration year? – In the year of integration, protection seekers will learn the language in different modules, they will receive training, but they will also learn a lot about our society, how we tick, how Austria ticks, how we have organized ourselves. And above all, they will also learn from children's rights and women's rights, as we understand them, that is, they are doing a kind of civil service to society. Ladies and gentlemen! The year of integration is a bridge to each other, for a common relationship. In no family, in no village, in no city can you live against each other, but only with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20087	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20110	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! The development of housing is now being reduced. There is a small tax autonomy for the countries. This is to be welcomed in principle once. The economist Charles B. Blankart wrote yesterday in his blog: "A well-built federalism does not require subsidies. He carries himself.” – So let’s take a step in the right direction. The beneficiaries, the decision-makers and the taxpayers must be summarized; they should meet in the same place. Then federalism can also work, unlike it has worked in this country so far. If, in reality, the contributions to housing support are not only from the employer's and employee's contributions, but also from the funds paid back from housing promotion loans and the federal government has also given the countries housing funds, we know today that this money has landed only to a small part of the housing and that the federal states have otherwise signed the money. The Institute for Real Estate, Building and Housing has found: In 2015, the federal states of Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg covered the entire housing support from the loan return flows. In other words, what has been deducted from wages and salaries, what employers have paid for as pay-side costs, is very hard to get into the country budgets. In doing so, the national leaders create a basket money with which they buy the benevolence of the citizens, because you don't have to donate any guinea pig that's bought from a club somewhere. That's not what this building money is supposed to do. There is something missing in this provision, namely that countries, if they decide autonomously on it, are also obliged to actually use the money for housing. But they're not going to do that. After the Minister of Finance has reached this agreement with the national leaders, the next day the national leaders announced that they had formed a cartel, namely that they would all leave the housing support contribution to one percent and would not use their autonomy. If the company were to do, the cartel court would still be on the mat the same day, but state princes, the princes of darkness, could do that. In order to force them to spend the money on housing and not on other land-caping expenses, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20200	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20292	Mr Huainigg spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20313	Madam President. Minister! High house! Austria's economic performance increased by 1.5 percent in 2016. That's a very positive sign. However, if you see that Germany has consolidated its budget during the same period, this is still a great task, and Hans Jörg Schelling is a strong voice for it. That's my farewell speech. I would like to thank Hans Jörg Schelling for his commitment to hospice and palliative medicine, for the Adult Protection Act and also for the doubling of funds for bilateral development cooperation. He made it possible. Ladies and gentlemen! My last speech: Actually, I'm used to saying goodbye, I'm actually a master of farewell. When I came to Parliament in 2002 – Bundesekanzler Schüssel brought me as a cross-border beginner – I was able to read. I was able to operate the wheelchair with my hands and I was able to breathe alone. I can't do that anymore. Some say that I would have exaggerated my function as a disabled speaker, but I live with personal assistants who support me who read something to me, write the texts that I dictate, and who in between also do nursing activities or save my life. This works wonderfully – except for votes. Because the assistant had to raise my hand, and there were always discussions as to whether I really want to. I'm a backbench from the first day to the last day. I'm not advanced because the plenary room was not barrier-free. My successors will have it easier in the new plenary room. Through my life expertise, which I have brought into Parliament, there has been a great deal of legislation, for example, that disabled caregivers and personal assistants may also carry out nursing activities. That was not the case before, and it was also viewed with suspicion. I can remember a story on the subway when a woman, a nurse addressed me and, above all, my assistant and said to her: Do you know what you're doing here? With this, you stand in the criminal with one foot. And I said, Well, I'd have to be sucked off anyway. Can you do that, please? - Then she was gone. From time to time, you also need creative access in politics. This was especially so in the recognition of sign language. When I came to Parliament, she hardly saw anyone as a language. Today, it is a matter of course that the plenary sessions are interpreted. I thought about how to do this, and I addressed an interpreter, Sabine Zeller, who today also interprets, translates, and she has interpreted all my speeches in the plenary in the sign language. I have introduced a small sign language course for Members, and I have had the names of Members translated. Fischer was a floating fish, Khol a cockhead and fungus was a swammerl, and I asked: I don't know now, is it an egg swallow or a poison mushroom? – The Greens have called out: We don't know that either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we're a little smarter: It's a colt. That's right! What do you think was the most common question to me? It was the question: Why are you disabled, no, not disabled, but why are you at the ÖVP? – And my answer briefly and concisely: It is the Christian-social values for which you have to fight again and again every day. [[Abg. Kogler: There would be an intermediate call now if it were not the farewell speech!]] It is about human dignity, which must also be enshrined in the Constitution, as in Germany in Article 1. You will now say: The ÖVP represents the principle of performance, which contradicts it, but of course it is so that the dignity of every human being, no matter what performance it brings. But my experience is also that disabled people are not trusted or given little confidence. That's the other side. That is why I am for performance and a look at performance, but everyone must also be required and promoted according to their abilities. This begins with the integration of schools, the joint teaching of disabled and non-inhibited children. We live in a perfect world: the perfect CV, the perfect house, the perfect child at the perfect time. The birth of a disabled child is seen as a damage. I am fighting for the abolition of eugenic indication because it constitutes discrimination when it is valued differently if a disabled child is to be discharged just before birth. We need to talk about it. I used to talk about it again and again. The answer was: I'm coming to you! – I still wait today, I have to confess. In recent weeks I have received many very positive and appreciative feedbacks, for which I would like to thank myself. This is also something that you often experience only after life as a convocation. I would like to encourage everyone to show greater appreciation for the other politicians from the other political groups, if it is justified to see something good. I believe that this mutual appreciation is a sign of good policy and strengthens our awareness of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my farewell. I would like to thank, especially my wife, my family; she is also sitting on the gallery today – thank you for your support! [[General condolences.]] I also thank the Parliamentary Directorate, the Club, which has always helped me very much and supported me valuablely, and also my parliamentary staff. I've had some over time, and now especially Evelyn Pammer. – Thank you! It was an exciting and very instructive time in which we have spent a lot. We were a good team. – Thank you all! To conclude: In 2007, I wrote a poem entitled "Departing" I'd like to save you that now. But I will give the President's poem as a representative of the House. I would like to thank you for the attention you have given me over all these years and wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20364	Thanks a lot! I think I can say in your name: Mr. Dr. Huainigg, honourable Member, we thank you and wish you every good thing for your future. - Thank you many times. [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20394	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I can agree with that. We would also have liked to see Mr Huainigg in this House during the next legislative period. On the current item on the agenda, I should like to mention briefly the following: Minister Schelling said quite right: Austria does not have a revenue problem, but rather an expenditure problem, which is particularly serious if one makes a comparison with Germany. Germany has almost as good tax revenue as Austria, but there you pay back debt. We do not succeed, but quite the contrary: We have to deal with the debt situation, or the Austrian Federal Finance Agency did not return €3.5 billion for another 100 years. If, of course, in the course of the election campaign, everything is tried to speak beautifully – in the sense that employment is excellent, that we are the fourth-richest country and that crime goes back – then you can see how far politics, especially the established parties, from the citizens, have gone from the people. Go, please, out – not just in the campaign! Go out to the people daily and talk to the people to find out how great they are; how enthusiastic they are when – like a tank guard in three-layer businesses – they earn 1 000 € when 1.7 million citizens live on the poverty line, 10 percent of them in full employment and 17 percent in part-time employment; as the 1.2 million pensioners who are said to have received a super fair pension increase with the new justice! – Yes, this is the new fairness, which seems to be the new justice! Is there any such expression at all? – It is either fair or unfair, there is no need to place new slogans or new faces. If you sell 2.2 percent increase as success to the small pensioners who have never earned anything in their lives, because then someone with 800 € pension – and that is very, very many – 18 € more and someone with 3 000 € pension 50 €, then the ÖVP and the other government party have to explain to the voters how to define new justice. I may also say something to the family programme: It is wonderful when you say that you give the families €2 billion more and take out of the family compensation fund, FLAF – if you halve them – €3 billion. The regional economy lacks € 1 billion. These are the facts. On the point of fiscal justice we will still be discussing today, I believe. But I'm allowed to say: This government has greatly increased farmers' unit values at a time when we have prices such as 25 years ago. I may quote from a preliminary decision of the Financial Office – quote –: For the purposes of the assessment, the achieved and not actually achieved yield is important. - Quote. Well, wonderful! That's tax justice? – Then we punish all drivers who have a car with a speed of 200 km/h for safety because they could have driven faster than 130. These are the facts; these are the data. That is why we need a People's Movement which brings the voices and opinions of the people into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20446	Mr Matznetter was next spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20467	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Madam President, Dr. Kraker! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I did not understand the last comment made by Mr Steinbichler. Was the objection that our farmers pay more taxes than they have income? Was that the objection? [[Abg. Steinbichler shakes his head no more.]] He doesn't even say that himself, I just wanted to know. I did not understand your plea, Mr. Deputies. You have now complained about the farmers paying too much tax in the country, have I really understood you? I just wanted to know. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This confirms my feeling over the past few years that this is so!]] - Okay, I just want to know what parallel universe you're from. In this case from another. At any rate, it has worked really well for the ÖVP – it is not my party – over the decades, it has always made sure that the tax burden in this area, we say, is rather low. Let's try to agree on it! Now I come to the achievements. I have to defend the ÖVP again today, i.e. to protect the Minister of Finance from his own party, because the performance of the Minister of Finance Schelling is visible on the basis of this billing. We had a tax reform, a reduction in the tax and tax rate by more than 1 per cent, but we have a Maastricht deficit of only 1.55 per cent. As a general rule, we have a decline in Maastricht debt. This has been solidified in this Federal Government. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Yes, you can praise it, but it is your new supervisor who says that I have nothing to do with everything that would most like to put the former FPÖ club director in place of the Finance Minister Schelling, as it was already in Schüssels times with a certain grass that is still the case today of the Austrian People's Party. Perhaps you should teach your supervisors that they are also good on the road with their own experts and they do not need to take external rental staff. It will, if you do a coalition with them, go about as wrong as in the years 2000 to 2006. [[Abg. Wöginger: That was also the case with Heinisch-Hosek and Drozda!]] I promise you, if that is possible, it hurts the country, it hurts you and it hurts democracy. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] Better progress is being made in politics, just as now, where unemployment is going down, we are in the European Union's summit and one of the most vital countries in the world. This is a merit that has only been done with the participation of social democracy and not with the participation of the liberals. I would like to hold it here for the last six decades. I am also referring to the second part, the promotion of housing. We will agree. It is the compromise from the financial balance. I would, however, warn you how I did it in committee and do not hide it here in plenary: It is not a contribution to the reduction of bureaucracy, as there will be nine different contributions. Fortunately, countries may be so reasonable in the beginning that they keep it at the same percentage. Anyone who is advertising tax competition in the same way as NEOS is supposed to be aware of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is against the market economy, Mr Colleague, because, in a market economy, there must be a level playing field for all entrepreneurs in a single market. We in the European Union must fight that we have a single field of play, and not that one can go as the Irish, and suddenly have 26 percent growth in 2015 because they have shuddered all the revenues of the large companies. This is tax competition. It is written in the parent book: For a market economy it takes the same conditions, same rules as in football, tennis or other games. You can't say: In one field, the referee is more rigorous and in the game the away rule is in one direction, but not in the other. But that's what you're doing with tax competition. It is one of the most unintelligent measures because it damages the market economy and ultimately our society. We need uniform conditions, a solidarity society, with clear rules applicable to all, including Mr Loacker! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister and also Mrs Tamandel, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, for his cooperation. Much has been done. I think the Republic is in good condition. Maybe you're acting a little bit internally against those who want to talk badly, to have any advantages from it. It is a good country, we have good successes, and we can be proud of it – even in election times. I would also like to see this from the remaining remains of the old ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20547	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20568	Madam President. I would also like to thank you and briefly address my colleagues, Mr Huainigg, who gave his part-session in this debate. They were – now we are in the new house – actually in the Green Club, at least locally, inhabited. We've met more often, you're going to miss us, anyway. But they have still done something – and now I do the advertising - that is, several books written. The last book you gave to all of us bears the title “Gateful for Happiness – Risking Life. ” I can only recommend it. Keep telling me, give it to me! It's a very big story, a great merit, I'm bowing down. [[General condolences.]] Now, however, a statement on our voting behaviour – this is not so wrong in parliamentarianism either. There is the longer debate about the abolition of the so-called cold progression. That's always what you think this is in itself a good thing. – Yes, if otherwise everything is right and the tariff course is already completely fair, then it is good, because it is extended and actually almost cemented in real political terms on eternity. But there are two problems. We have a tax system that actually has tax jurisdiction gaps in many places. In the case of wage and income tax, where this plays a role, it is still in our view that the discharge below – even in combination, when you look at the tax system – is too little and it is still relatively passive at the top. We would therefore call for the next overall reform debate, which means that we would continue to prefer a different course of tariffs in income tax and not cement the current one. That's why we're talking about it. No to this question, as it is here of the NEOS – not in the last principle, but it is slant, and I do not want to extend a bit of obliqueness. Secondly, What I like to overlook and have to look at is the price developments that I have been looking at lately. We always have an index. We know the debate of the pensioners who point out that they have a different shopping cart. Yes, there's something about it, because it's also generally true: Lower levels of income – economically speaking – have a different demand structure than the upper one. Goods they have to buy but tend to become – and look at the last ten years! – much more expensive than other goods. If that's what you want, certain foods became much more expensive than luxury long-distance travel. It's all right. That is why it is not appropriate to simply remove the cold progression from this title and at the same time to cement everything, that is to say, feed into a next reform. We've already said a few times what the big swingwheels are: Close justice gap, close ecological gap. That is why, Minister of Finance, it is not necessary to raise taxes – we are always accused of doing so, we simply do not want to reduce taxes. But if we want to rebuild the structure so that it can finally be reasonable, then it is not a tax reduction, it is a re-taxation, and we should finally get into the re-taxation process.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20623	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20644	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Werner Kogler has raised an important point, since it is always a matter of whether we have a revenue problem or not. I think we don't have a revenue problem - not at all. It has also hardly changed the total amount of taxes and levies in relation to gross national income over the last ten years. Every year a little up, down, up, down, up, down, down. With the tax reform a big step down, but essentially it is always at about the same level. The problem we have is not how many taxes are paid overall, but who pays what share, and whether the share one group pays today is fair, and whether another group does not make a too small share, while another group may be too high. When we look at ourselves – because there is always the talk of cake baking – as the cake – namely the income in Austria – then about 60 percent of the cake gets those who work for their income, and about 40 percent are for capital and wealth income, not for labour income. However, if we look at the figures when it comes to paying taxes and taxes, how much percentage of taxes on the one hand are on the other hand on work and consumption, that is, how much those who pay for their money, and how much percentage of taxes on the other hand pay capital and wealth income, then the ratio is not 60 to 40, but about 80 to 20. That is, those who get 40 percent of the cake because they have capital and assets pay only 20 percent of the taxes, and those who get 60 percent because they go to work for their money, but pay 80 percent of the taxes and taxes. - That's our problem. The problem is not new, it has become smaller, because at the time when the SPÖ came back to the government, 2007, the ratio was still 88 to 12. Now it's just that it's thanks to God, only 80 to 20. But there are really many, many steps needed to change this tax structure in order to ensure that those who are on the chocolate side of life also make their fair contribution. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is this chocolate side?]] And for that, there are two answers, namely an inheritance tax for millions of heirs and also an asset tax for assets over €1 million, so that this justice is made between what someone deserves and what he pays in taxes. This is not guaranteed today. We need to change that! There are two answers to this. There are two parties here, the FPÖ and the ÖVP, which are against the fact that there is justice. At any rate, there is a party in which you can rely on it to continue this path that it has taken over the past ten years – to reduce taxes on work and to make a fair contribution to it – and that is the social democrats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20683	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We are in the voting procedure, Mr Deputies, please take your place! [[in the direction of the Abg. Welsh]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law on the approval of the Federal Accounts for 2016, together with the title and receipt in 1768 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, Dr Strolz, colleagues on the abolition of cold progression. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the withdrawal of the increase in VAT on accommodation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of additional investment incentives for terrorist businesses... – Sorry, tourism companies! [[General hustle and bustle.]] This is because these motions for resolutions are always written by hand. [[keeping a short copy of the application up to date]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of additional investment incentives for tourism businesses through the introduction of the AFA to economic life. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Themessl, colleagues, on the introduction of Blum-Bonus. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law, which amends the Income Tax Act, the Corporate Tax Act, the Introductory Tax Act and the Studienförderungsgesetz, in 1769 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary request from Members Köchl, colleagues and an additional request from Mr Dr Strolz, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposals mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 1a into Article 1. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Strolz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 2 and 3 into Article 1. I would like to ask those members of the House who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law, which amends the housing contribution law 2018 and amends the Federal Law on the collection of a housing promotion contribution and the 2017 financial compensation law, in 1770 of the supplements. There is an additional request from the honourable Member, Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, and an additional request from the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposals mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. As the honourable Member's supplementary request mentioned above is Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Kogler, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal to insert points 8a, 8b and 9a in Article 3. In addition, point 1a is inserted in Article 3 in point 10. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore the additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal to insert points 8a and 8b in Article 3. In addition, point 1a is inserted in Article 3 in point 10. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. [[15:49:30]] 4. Point Report of the Committee of Inquiry on the Eurofighter Typhoon fighter aircraft system (3/US) pursuant to § 51 VO-UA (1771 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20910	Now we reach the 4th. Agenda item. According to § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees I expressly propose the termination of the Investigation Committee on the Eurofighter Typhoon Fighting System (3/US) by Wednesday, 20. September 2017, 15.50 p.m. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e20948	Madam President. Yes, once again a report by a committee of inquiry which was made in accordance with the new rules of procedure. We originally had the Hypo Alpe-Adria and now we have this. Many will comment on procedural things, I will largely refrain from doing so. It was created in 2014, I think, in joint effort – however driven by the Green Group – this new rule was created, in particular with many minority opportunities; this should be said once. The practice in the first committee was a bit more bumpy and difficult, even because the parties worked against each other. This time, they have most of the effects on each other, and this has also affected. So thank you to all those who worked in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. Thank you also to the trial judge and the procurator, to the President of the European Parliament in the past, now to the Second President. Now you will understand that when weighting this matter, I will no longer stop with thanks and with procedural things, but come to the Causa Eurofighter itself. The Causa Eurofighter is certainly the biggest movement in the history of the Republic. This was already evident in the years 2001, 2002 and 2003. I have just started in this house, and some of us – I definitely – have already pointed out what was going on in the entire procurement process. This was not primarily the subject of the investigation. But, all that was examined this time – unfortunately, it was only a limited period of time, limited overviews – would not even have been examined if we had not made the basic contracts and the basic type decision, the most expensive device had been acquired, what we never needed, namely an air-ferrari – although we needed a maximum of a middle-class car – which was then so expensive that we could not afford the equipment, so that the glumpert doesn't even fly properly. This is the story that was written from the first day. It's a black and blue story. This is a classic black and blue success story that went off in this Eurofighter acquisition. Just as the hypo is the biggest financial crime in the history of the Republic, the Eurofighter is the biggest shift in the history of the Republic – yes, in black and blue it's left! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How they sing and laugh: Flyer there, money away, lubrication, including. - That's what we had. We had already recognized that at the time, let us explain it. Of course, the Darabos comparison – I come to the closer subject of investigation, which has been mentioned over and over again – has gone unfavourable. The Court of Auditors has also done so, and there is nothing else in the Committee. Some have thought more precisely than before, that's a good thing. I would agree with this assessment that there were very bad conditions, difficult coalition negotiations, some cast builder pirouettes – where we could finally have recovered from black and blue. That's where he gets into the next paint. Yeah, that was a problem. And poor Darabos – but of course he is responsible as a minister, he has not just happened to be in the shooting line – has also achieved a bad comparison from our point of view – but not only from our own, but also from the Court of Auditors. In any case, this has not only been disproved, but has also been confirmed in the dimension – in the opinion of the Green Group, in any case, because the different aspects will come out of it. You will understand this if I am not primary The results of their reports and not those of the Court of Appeal are illuminating, because at least we are at least different in the consequences; I will just mention it, we have a lot more radical proposals as to how to deal with all this plunder. What's the main loot? - Thank you later. Thank you. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's the main loot? That's what you've seen at the time: These were the so-called counter-businesses. You have to break that on your tongue. By the way, at that time all the military and also the then Minister Scheibner said that this is actually a problem. What's going to be insinuated? We buy 15 - or 20 - planes at the time. The cost of € 2 billion plus/minus, and then we make a counter-business of € 4 billion. So the one who turns the plane on us makes the offer that he collects business worth €4 billion for our economy. That's a humbug in itself. Who believes that? It has been designed in such a way that in practice only air operations could be. But this is only the most harmless – this finding has been fully confirmed – because it only becomes more embarrassing. This finding, that it is usually nothing but a counter-business flaw – a scandal for itself, which was to smell and was confirmed from all cracks – simply has its cause in a kind of counter-business conspiracy, in which everyone liked to play with – bowl, blue-black, watch oba! – because they wanted to talk to the people – Opium –: Although we have to spend € 2 billion on these planes, we are doing the double counter-business anyway, so much is coming back that the economy buys the plane itself. – That has really been said. The good Mr. Schüssel is still a brief advisor today – we will see what comes out of it. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Nothing good!]] I already see – economic competence in the individual questions of BUWOG privatisation – the hypo was also a black and blue event in the first place – as you collapsed again. The first problem was the belief in any military-industrial pippi-long-shrink economists – yes, mostly men, for this, Pippi Langstrumff has now become a bit unjust – but nevertheless in principle and de facto voodoo economists to tell such a lounder. Of course, that didn't work. First and foremost, they were shaming and smearing. But where it worked – and there we come to the heart of the matter – there were obvious lubricating payments. But that was clear at the time. Why can I get so upset today? You can read in the APA reports of those years that exactly that was the thesis: If truly larger money flows flow over this counter-business serial, then primarily to feed real lubricating payments into the system. – And so was it. The whole business loot was about commissions – because that was then shifted – in reality a single lubrication carousel, where something really happened, and that unfortunately happened. In the meantime, the points are the ones – but we have already seen them through the prosecutors, but of course through those in Munich, because we have to wake up for 25 years, just as at the Hypo, hopefully now something happens – that these 200 million € were almost included in the purchase price. Not only that the whole business is already in there – because they can give something for it as well – no, we have paid ourselves the whole organized lubrication carousel! That would not even have believed me – so you should not think that the Enlightenment does not make progress again and again – and I see this with nothing disproved. And this is the best requirement for us to be able to recover money, just as we did at the Hypo thanks to pressure from many oppositionists – but above all the Greens – over € 1 billion, even with Minister Schelling – he is now no longer there. If the pressure hadn't been there, the reconnaissance would never have happened. Now, of course, there is a chance that we will recover the €200 million – it's clear – but perhaps it goes as far as Minister Doskozil has suggested and indicated, up to €1.2 billion. Then we would have recovered € 1 billion twice, as no one should say that there is no need for clarification and a clear attitude on these questions; even though in those years – in this case, we were threatened by the arms industry and in the hypo case by the Balkan mafia – at the time. They've made the wall for them, we've cleared up and now we've got the money back. That's what I call opposition work and parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21005	Mr Mag. Kogler, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will interrupt the session in 30 seconds. Either you formulate the final sentence or I will put you back on the list of speakers after the debate on the urgent request. [[Abg. Kogler: No, I'm coming to the end!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21032	The logical conclusion must be that we link a security package against corruption. At the hypo we have the conclusions clear, and in this case they are also clear: Stop the counter-business insult and end with the lobbyists who regularly insert money into the system! – We have that in our demands. The other claims don't go that far. That is why we also reject the report as a whole in the sense of not knowing, because, as measured by what has been revealed, we are far too close in consequence. So: a real package against corruption – we will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21062	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can come to the debate on the urgent request at 4 p.m. [[16:00:25]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues on strict rules for party donations (2283/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21092	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2283/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21204	I now grant to the applicant for the reasons of the urgent request in accordance with § 74a para. 5 with a maximum speaking time of 20 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Steinhauser, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, the flash light will not become a permanent red light after the end of the speech period, but will continue to shine. We're here to fix the mistake. You have the time and you'll see when the 20 minutes are over. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You're stopping me!]] - I'll stop you, exactly. Thanks a lot. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21237	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a great achievement in democracy, and this great achievement is: Every voice of every citizen and citizen is worth the same amount, whether by a worker or by a millionaire. This achievement is without defending If and But. If we are talking about party donations today, we are talking exactly about defending this achievement, because this very achievement is in danger when interest groups get excessive influence on politics about donations. It is a principle that, as a politician and politician, we are not in the hands of stakeholders. We are in the soldiers of the citizens and of no one else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was a tough fight to make sure. I recall the last few years, the fights for strict anti-corruption law. There has been long resistance, we have put massive pressure on us, because corruption is the opponent of democracy and the rule of law. In the end, there was a consensus here in Parliament: We need a strict and sharp anti-corruption law to defend our democracy. Democracy is also defended with a well-equipped promotion of parties. In Austria it is not so small, only the basic funding is around 142 million €. That's good, because I prefer proper party promotion to the influence of private donors. The promotion of these parties will then include the promotion of clubs and the promotion of educational institutions. All of this is not a coincidence, all of which should immunise parties and politicians against the influence of large stakeholders. In addition, there are the transparency provisions in the Party Act, they clearly state: If donated, this is to be declared so that you know who is donating and what conflicts of interest can arise from it. This architecture is not a coincidence, it defends our democracy. But now we are experiencing a new quality, we are experiencing an Americanization of our political system regarding donations. All of a sudden, big donors come to the plan and send massive donations to the election campaign as we know it from the United States. We have a second problem, there is also this in the United States: People's committees subsidize politics and election by all the rules and are not covered by the current legal situation. If we look into the United States, that must be a warning for us. There the citizens are trying to regain their political system, which they have lost to large donors. In the election campaign, there are dozens of examples of the sudden disappearance of topics that were first on the agenda after large lobbys with large donations entered the election campaign. It was even President Trump who addressed the cost of drugs and thus went into conflict with the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical industry has donated, and Trump has lost no word about drug costs that are exorbitantly high in the United States. On the contrary: The interests of pharmaceutical companies play a major role in the current debate on health reform. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] The second point we need to learn from the United States: There, a few years ago – I think it was under George Bush – there was a liberalisation that excluded all the staff committees from the election funding. The result is that today, of these individual committees, a number of millions – compared to the official party candidates – are going into the election campaign. There, people like the cook brothers, millionaires, indicate the tone, they say how the election campaign is going. All this goes by the rules. Citizens have lost the American party system, the American political system to great influence. In a tough struggle, they try to regulate this influence over party donations and thus regain the political system for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! This form of Americanization of our political system must not and should not exist in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] We do not want these political consequences that the United States has to deal with today. We are not addressing this issue today because we hear the grass growing, but because we are watching this election campaign closely. Sebastian Kurzist is in the process of bringing the system of American donations into the Austrian election campaign and the political system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Sebastian Kurz lets itself “donate” just from large donors, which is visible with a free eye. Since we want to hold the debate fairly here, I also say that this is not illegal. It is even positive to mention that Sebastian Kurz provides transparency, since there is nothing to criticize. He opens the donors as planned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not the point of criticism. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What remains is the problem with this active donor donor fundraising, which will undermine our political system as well as in the United States, because it creates a filtration of political and economic interests. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: We are independent!]] – You're independent? We'll get to how independent you are. [[Abg. Kogler: We've seen that at Glyphosate today!]] – As a result, politics is not determined by the citizens, but by the great donations of the mäzenes, who have taken influence. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But let's come to your crowdfunding campaign, as you yourself say: Sebastian Kurzsayt, this is a crowdfunding campaign that has a goal, namely that small donors can bring themselves in. He even says: 90 percent of my donors are small donors. – Personally, I am a great friend of crowdfunding. In the sense of the actual term, namely financing from below, crowdfunding makes sense, because many interests that are overlooked then get a voice through donations from below. That which Sebastian Kurzmacht has nothing to do with crowdfunding. The impression is to be given that in short the small donors would become independent, namely from the political system. In reality, it's the other way round: In short, it depends on large donors. Let’s look at the Short Donation Campaign [[Abg. Kogler: Very good!]] Most of these donations come from a few people. About 70 percent of the donations come from just 31 people, which can be counted on a few hands. The small donors donate just as much as the five largest donors together, that is, the relationships do not agree. There are not small donors in the foreground, but there are large donors in the foreground. In other words, the Kurz’s donation campaign is not crowdfunding, but nothing but a fundraising for large donors, which is covered by the fact that citizens can also deliver small donations. As a result, 31 persons and companies pay 70 to 80 percent of Sebastian Kurz's donations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] But let's take a look at these so-called big donors from Sebastian Kurz: Who are the 31 Big Donors? – 13 of which are enterprises; Companies have no political views, companies have economic interests. Why do companies donate to Sebastian Kurz? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: 82-year-old minimum pensioners also get payment certificates!]] That doesn't fit in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The remaining 18 large donors – and I am talking about large donors, not small donors who make up a lot in the number of heads, but in the sum of donations – all have little, little surprising, entrepreneurial background. Let's look at the sectors: A third of the large donors come from the real estate area. [[Abg. Kogler: Eben!]] The ÖVP will tell us that the rental and housing policy will be completely independent over the next five years! I don't know who she can tell me. She can't tell me. Durable living, which is cut off for short voters. The ÖVP has long sold to the large donors from the real estate industry and is obliged to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] The other part of the donors comes from other sectors of the economy, especially industry and trade. There's a man out of this round. I call him 'cause he's also been public: Stefan Pierer. Stefan Pierer is head of KTM and major donor of the ÖVP. He says clearly what he expects of you: the 12-hour working day, the reduction of labour rights and obviously black and blue. [[Abg. Belakovich: But there he should have been with us too!]] Mr Pierer pays €436 000 for this! [[Abg. Kogler: Is it true?]] A donor who lays half a million euros and does not publicly hide in interviews, but openly says what he wants: This policy leads to the system that Sebastian has introduced in short and focuses on the donation and the large donor. This has nothing to do with crowdfunding, and the short-leaks published by the “Falter” show clearly in which direction Sebastian Kurzwill: towards the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Kogler: Is legitimate!]] It is little surprising that I would admit to him that he defines this as political law. However, how and with what purpose he does this, this is already another music: First, ÖVP chief Mitterlehner has been muttered away in an ungood way. That's not nice, but that's what the ÖVP has to do. From the beginning, these papers show, new elections were planned. Sebastian Kurz had no interest in any form of constructive participation. In these papers, it is also said that he was not interested in being vice-ganners. The authenticity of these papers is unprecedented. In these papers that have been published, however, Sebastian Kurz has actively created lists – with name, address, e-mail address – which could be included in the list of large donors. There has been a very offensive fundraising. That means that's not crowdfunding, when little donors say I want to donate Sebastian Kurz. It's not even like someone who has something more on the side says on his own that I want to support Sebastian Kurz. – No, Sebastian Kurz has actively sought donations! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Move Now Once you're in the position of an entrepreneur asked by Sebastian Kurz and his friends for a donation. Yes, of course, he will donate, he is almost left with nothing else, but, of course, this donor will also expect a return in the end, not in the sense of corruption, but in the sense of political commitment, when he lays down a large amount. And that's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Short-leaks are honest, and this goes on even further, one already speculates about post positions in the Federal Chancellery. This is an approach that makes me speechless. The Federal Chancellor's Office has not yet been conquered and you're already considering which section heads you want to use. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... Industrial association!]] It is relatively clear which wind will blow in the Federal Chancellery. The whole thing is also planned by its own cabinet staff, not by any of the officials of the Young ÖVP, not by any party strators of the ÖVP who may have pursued a completely different line; no, by the Cabinet staff. What unfrozenness is then argued with is shown by Sebastian Kurz’s press spokespersons that they have all-inclusive contracts. All-including, that is the keyword, that is obviously the access of the ÖVP to the posts that one wants to conquer, but an all-inclusive contract of a cabinet worker solely responsible for the work of a minister does not justify that one writes strategy papers, as Sebastian Kurz obviously wants to take over this Republic with the help of large donors in a power rush. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The subject of this application is therefore relatively simple, and this question must be answered by the Austrian National Council: Are all citizens equally valuable or can some buy more influence? Do democratic decisions fall exclusively in the interests of the citizens or, due to party donations, do other interests also play a role? Anyone who gets gifts – I'm not talking about corruption, I'm right – who gets attention, donations knows he can't escape the magic of these gifts. That makes binding, that is part of the culture: take and give. For this reason, transparency needs to be: No politician should get into the situation in which he has to ask himself the question: Do I serve citizens or do I clearly show myself to my donors? This is the basic question we are discussing today. I would like to make another distinction, which is important to me: A party receiving Party Promotion shall be treated differently from a party that has not yet received any Party Promotion. I am thinking of NEOS four years ago, since they were not in the National Council, Hans Peter Haselsteiner, if I have the right memory of that, as a grand donor. Since, I would say, there can be quite different rules of play. As long as transparency prevails, one can imagine who is behind a candidate. It would, of course, be a distortion of competition if they were to receive one party promotion and the other would not be allowed to receive a party donation. However, those who opt for the system of party support, and therefore quite lavishly – and I say, rightly well-dominated – refer to public funds, must apply strict rules. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are also those who usually ride around the highest posts of the Republic. At NEOS in 2013, there was no risk that they would move into the Federal Chancellery and think about post positions, but with the large and established parties, with the parties already sitting in the National Council, which may be before the jump to power, there must apply these strict rules of play. It is therefore clear that those who choose the system of promotion of the parties must also choose a system of strict rules of the game, so as not to make large-scale parties fit and willing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do we want? – Whenever parties are involved in party promotion, there must be clear rules of play. The first point is to limit the individual donation per person per year to € 10 000. That's not a small amount. Average citizens participating in crowdfunding are far from these amounts. Every citizen and every citizen, if she or she can, should be allowed to support parties with a donation of the party, but from € 10,000, it is an amount whose amount is also of importance to the political denominator. The second point, which is important: no corporate donations. Again: Companies have no political views, companies have economic interests, and they have lost nothing in party donations. The third point: We need to reorganise one or another in the existing legal situation, we need direct means of checking and perceiving the Court of Auditors, as well as criminal sanctions. It is not possible for us to give ourselves rules of play which are more or less dead right, since the Court of Auditors does not have the teeth to examine or sanction if these rules are violated. The last point, learning from the United States: the full involvement of personal committees and close-to-party organisations. We do not want the political system to be taken over by a few, we do not want the democratic principle, every vote is worth the same, everyone has the same influence in democracy at the elections, is undermined by a few in our political system. This is not just about the ÖVP, it is about making our political system future and immune, so that we do not experience a situation like in the United States, where the system is sluggish and slow to take over. Sebastian Kurz, however, also has some program points in these Leak papers – how should I say? – written, which have become public. There is a 76-point program, and it is exciting that a single point has been deleted in this program, which is point 43, which reads: Fight corruption at all levels. - I think that's what I'm saying. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21583	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Drozda on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21605	Madam President. High house! We are known to be in front of the National Council elections for three weeks. This is also a very good time to deal with questions of democracy and the role of parties in our democratic system, but first of all we are dealing with elections as a decision by the citizens. But the question is: How can it be found in a democratic way about the skills of a country? What opportunities do individual parties, actors and groups have? But it is also about the crucial question whether it is right that the one – to quote a former party founder – who has the gold makes the rules. Should the influence on the political system thus depend on economic potential and on existing capital? What expectation exists, what interests? What influence do companies and industry expect from large donations? I say: Parties shall not boom on the gangband of monetary magnates and politicians. And I'll add: Just because someone has the gold, he still has no right to make the rules! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I am of firm conviction: Only a system of public party financing ensures equal opportunities and a prevention of American states, which are also rightly outlined by the Steinhauser, where large donors can buy candidates. I don't want any such conditions as in the United States. A modified Cicero quote applies to the USA: The drive of an election campaign is an infinite amount of money. What sizes we are talking about make clear the figures on the expenditure you have mentioned, but we have also researched. The last presidential election campaign has cost €10 billion – you think the report has been reported. I am therefore opposed to any form of money domination, it is actually an attack on the equality of people. That is why I recognise public party funding, and we should all confess to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need this public funding to ensure a democratic system that is not alone or largely dependent on capital interests. However, it is crucial how and in what form we ensure transparency. With the 2012 Party Act, we have also implemented this – a finding that is essentially reflected in the reports of the anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe. However, I would also like to say that, unlike others, we do not accept single donations of over €20 000. [[Abg. Stroll: That's not true...!]] Whoever claims otherwise – in so far as it is perfectly on the doorstep – is wrong, Mr Strolz! [[Abg. Stroll: SPÖ: 60 248!]] We also like to make, as in the Causa Haselsteiner, interim orders! [[Abg. Stroll:... for such a donation!]] This is not a problem, we do it again and again and we also enforce it in court. We will continue to oppose rules allowing entrepreneurs, industrialists or other financial groups to adopt policies. This is a rather unlikely scenario in the case of heirs, but please. Who believes that the large donations of private individuals, industry and others are simply or predominantly altruistic motives are wrong. So whoever insists on large donations, allows them, or accepts them, is suspicious of putting himself on a certain agenda. They all know – and I still call it – a recent example: There is the famous 400 000 € donation from the Industrial Pierer to the ÖVP – apologise to the new ÖVP of course. At the same time, the most important requirement of the new EIA in the economic programme is a reduction in corporate tax by say and write 4,5 billion €! Now we have a large donation on one side and a large relief on the other, and I do not intend to assume that one is in an inseparable connection with the other. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Even if it may have been a matter of fairer intentions, honourable Mrs Fekter, it does not give a good light to this kind of policy you stand for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It leaves an extremely pale and unpleasant side-effect. I am therefore in favour of a reasonable strengthening of the rules on donations in principle. This concerns both the amount of donations to be published from the date of the donation and the setting of absolute amount limits for individual donations, as mentioned in the application in part. Let us start with the suspicion that large donations are linked to counter-services! This hurts politics in general, but democracy in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21707	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Mr Brosz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21734	Madam President. I remember the year 2012, then this new party law was passed in the Austrian National Council. There was previously intense negotiations with the then clubman of the ÖVP, Karlheinz Kopf, with colleagues Cap, with Minister Ostermayer. I can recall how the comments to this law were: At first, they were relatively euphoric, namely, that for the first time transparency comes in the financing of parties in Austria. One must also say that this is true to a certain degree, because there had been nothing at all before, and the step from nothing to something better has once been a progress. By the way, at the time, we first held four-party negotiations, Werner Kogler and I were for the Greens. The FPÖ was also sitting at the table. It was relatively difficult to negotiate, because we have always said that we want it more rigorously, and the FPÖ has always said that it wants to be less strict until sometime the government has decided to negotiate a two-thirds matter with us. Then this law came out as it was. When you look back at it, you have to say that some things are still successful. Otherwise, we would not discuss the donations we are discussing now, because there would be no transparency. It turned out, however, that some things simply don't work as they were, and where the positive feedback from then, for example from the former President of the Court of Auditors, didn't happen as much as it would have been the wish. I'd like to go a little closer to that. There are weaknesses that we saw at the time, but whose improvement with SPÖ and ÖVP was simple and simply unenforceable. On the one hand, close-to-party organisations: Of course, the definition of a party-related organisation solely through a statural reference is not sufficient. What happened next? – In the case of SPÖ and ÖVP, the statutes have been amended at once. Those who were pre-staturistically anchored were then no longer, so it was no longer parties close to them. They still donated, but it wasn't in the system, so to speak. That is to say, it is necessary to adapt the concept of a close-to-party organisation to reality, not to statuary references. The second point is personal committees: We now have this massively in the election campaign. We wanted this explicitly inside at the time, there was the refusal of SPÖ and ÖVP. It is now true that personal committees have invented something new – that was what led Mr. Hazelsteiner into the way at the time – to say: I double the donations of those who donate privately. That's to say, it's tossing a donation machine. Somewhere there is one who has a lot of money and says: If the private donate, I go here and double to increase the incentive for donations. Haselsteiner model back then, taken over as a short-pierer model now: Pierer says he doubles the donations. By the way, this is a bold announcement. I don't know if you can call it negligent in court if you're driven into bankruptcy. He had no idea how much is donated. He just said: I'll double! So I'd be a little careful, I don't know how to handle money there. It has become €400 000; if anyone had donated a ten in millions, perhaps Mr Pierer would have had another problem. So the only way to access is a bit absurd. Personal committees are now acting as the main financiers of electoral struggles. By the way, notes to the NEOS: NEOS is committed to halving party financing. At that time I understood, as a new movement, one may not be able to run successfully without support. What I never understood is that on the one hand, one demands the halving of party funding, at the same time takes full party funding and every year since 2013 has been receiving hundreds of euros from Mr. Hazelsteiner. So you don't get along with the current party funding funds, you need donors to do it, and you're gonna step in to halve the funding. This is illogical for me because this is a complete shift towards an influence on interest, away from a transparent party financing system. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] But that's your problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point, which was not feasible at the time: The German model with criminal regulations was not feasible. Criminal provisions in the event of a circumvention of party financing bans were not enforceable. At the time, however, we entered relatively high financial sanctions. That is, according to law, in some things there is an absolute ban on donations, for example, that clubs should not donate to the party. If that happens, there is a penalty up to the triple – according to the theory of the law. Now I'm coming to the next point. What surprised me in the future and where I say that I would not have expected it, are some interpretations of the party transparency Senate. Point one: To this day, I am sluggish about how a party-transparency Senate can come up with the idea that the formulation in the law, that there are sanctions when something incomplete is delivered, is designed in such a way that the party-transparency Senate says: But if nothing is delivered, it is not incomplete from our point of view, but something else, and there are no sanctions for that. – So on the idea that the non-supplier is not defined as incomplete, you have to come once! You have to do it very formalistically. I suspect that there is a system behind that there is also someone who has no interest in strict interpretation of this law. Second point: The Party Transparency Senate is unable to assess issues. This is particularly interesting: There was the case in the last election that the SPÖ as a parliament club has financed a part of the election campaign with ads – I do not know if it has remained that way, but at least there was the debate about it – with €1.5 million. But that was not a donation, because the money was not flown, but just the bill was paid, and the party transparency Senate said: This is a donation, but I cannot assess a donation, even if there is an invoice size. – It is not sanctionable to do so. In practice, therefore, strict provisions have been simply and simply removed. We all do well to make what was wanted at the time – to prevent such things – so that it is really sanctionable from the law. The third point – and that is what Mr Steinhauser has mentioned – is: Interestingly, something new has also developed, because in these large donations there has not been transparency in the form before. So now we note that there are people who seem to be worth 500 000 euros in party elections. Stronach has paid millions for it – well, own party – and, by the way, has deliberately broken the electoral cost limitation. We have also said that we are writing in sanctions. They were peanuts; I think a million punishments at federal level. You just need to sharpen that! If you want transparent funding, this is the result: clear sanctions mechanisms. By the way, there was also the great refusal at the time, there is now the great demand: direct access by the Court of Auditors. Otherwise it will be very difficult to see these rivers. Small note – now the Court of Auditors is not here – I do not understand this either: The law now provides that parliamentary clubs can be examined. The last exam was 30 years ago. The Court of Auditors apparently does not dare to look into parliamentary clubs, probably because there is an order procedure in Parliament, and then what happens is considered. The rules already exist, but they will not be implemented. To sum up: At that time we wanted to do more in the intention than the law now gives. There is a clear need to sharpen. Mr Drozda has drawn up a point; many others, for example, in relation to the close-to-party organizations, the personal committees, the criminal provisions, the question of the interpretation by the Party Transparency Senate, have not been welcomed. I hope we see a need for change here, too, because this law, which had a very good reputation at the time, is being questioned more from year to year – rightly. There are not only international organisations that demand it. There are also experts in Austria like Sickinger, who has mentioned very clear recommendations, which can be changed. I would think it is very good to focus on those who are experts who are committed to transparent and clean funding and really to inculcate. A confession before the election would now be great, then we could probably implement it immediately after the election. That's what it says: If we want fair, transparent funding, we also need to tighten up the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21789	Mr Wittmann is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21812	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I can actually go seamlessly to my speech, which I gave in the morning today. I think it is very worrying to give international or national corporations the opportunity to influence politics directly! Whether it be in one case to have legislation written and then enforce a campaign and a referendum, whether it be in the other case to buy the dependencies of parties – it is nothing else if I accept a large donation and at the same time get informed of the conditions for which I have to commit myself. How is independence to be guaranteed? If I say so, but I want working time flexibility to be enforced, then no one can talk about independence anymore, for he calls the condition under which he makes the money! He says what he's expecting. This is a direct influence. I think this is most worrying and I believe that this is the completely wrong way to shape democracy. It must not occur that someone can buy voices, influence voices. I also think it is wrong – I said it in one speech back then – that someone buys a party, as happened with the Stronach team at the time. These are all questions that need to be clarified and which are also part of the intensification of these transparency provisions. I also believe that we have to set a level of party donations, up to which this is going and from which it is not possible. I do not agree with all the points in it, because even the Court of Auditors says that it is not the right place to consult the parties. It is also not usual internationally. In Germany it is regulated differently, for example, the Bundestag, which then deals with itself when there is an advertisement. I also believe that the Federal Chancellor is the wrong address because I believe that Parliament should have the self-confidence to give itself these rules. It's about us, it's about the parties, it's not about the chancellor and not about the executive. It is quite simply about the parties concerned, and Parliament should give itself these rules. I mean to think about making this transparent and setting a height is always worth it. We have just decided that, regardless of external influences, we are making policy here by having a party promotion landscape. In my opinion, however, it is quite worrying that two years ago in the ÖVP it was said that we cut the funding of the parties by 50 percent, and at the same time we increase our donations. There is something else funny in it: that you can now read in this master plan that two and a half years ago the cabinet decided, so to speak, that Lopatka and the National Council President are being abandoned. Why this can be done is also a question for me of the self-confidence of the employees of the ÖVP. But as one can now do everything in retrospect to be able to show up turquoise here, I think, of course, there is a problem there. Finally, however, you make yourself dependent! You have been given the conditions under which you have to use this. You also took a huge lobby, namely the landlords, and then you say you want social housing. How's that going? You don't believe that any more, and you're not free from influences anymore! I think that I am very concerned about the fact that the company is donating to itself. Here I am with my colleague Steinhauser: Companies do not vote, companies have very clear interests. Companies want to succeed, companies want to play according to their rules. “Whoever has gold makes the rules”: They think that's what they're saying – and you're taking the money!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21868	Next word reported: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e21889	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's election. In this debate on party funding, we also feel that we are 25 days ahead of a decisive and important election debate. In the first place, I should like to draw attention to the party law which we have adopted together by a large majority. It comes from 2012, and I would say it is one of the most stringent party laws in Europe. At least this also confirmed Mr Kogler in the “Kurier” at the time when he said: The transparency package is exemplary throughout Europe and bears a green handwriting. [[Abg. Steinhauser: There was more inside!]] If this even comes from Kogler, you know that here are the citizens' rights, but also those of a company and a party. It can't be forbidden to support a party Ideally, but also materially. This is also one of the cornerstones of the party law. The central principle of regulation is transparency. The critical public will be able to find out who supports a party with considerable amounts and will be able to check whether the party can be guided by these donors in its actions. [[Abg. Steinhauser: But too late!]] For the ÖVP I can say: That was not the case in the past, nor will it be so in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It seems that this system has also proved its worth. I would like to give a few examples of how this has been done with the other political groups or with other elections. We have chosen a whole year until we had a Federal President again, but after all, the current Federal President Van der Bellen has collected €7.9 million in donations and it was no less than Mr. Hazelsteiner, who has made a total of €150 000 available. [[Abg. Steinhauser: But that wasn't a party promotion!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This has not been a party, he was independent!]] – Apparently, that wasn't a party. In any case, he was supported by the Greens. Another candidate, Dr. Griss, who is now also candidates for the NEOS, has received €930 000 from private, also very well-known, donors in the Federal presidential election campaign. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Walser and Mr Oellinger.]] And of course, Mr. Hazelsteiner is also constantly showing up at NEOS, which he has already supported again in 2017 with €300 000; almost €900,000 were gathered in the years 2015 to 2017. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He's doing his Tamagotchi!]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! It may have been a little longer, but I would also like to show that there have always been party donations in larger amounts, also from entrepreneurs and also from your party. I have here an article from the “FORMAT”, section Austria, from the year 2000, in which it says that no one other than former Vice-Cancellor Hannes Androsch then transferred 1 million Schilling as a donation to the SPÖ. [[Call the ÖVP:Huuu!]] “Donations are civil obligations,” he said. And the subtitle is: “Salzbaron Hannes Androsch” – then –“ 62, on the donation discipline of comrades and his life as a big donor of SPÖ.” – So you shouldn’t do 25 days before the election as if you had never received a donation from an entrepreneur. It says it is black on white, even the SPÖ has received large donations at the time, from no one less than from Hannes Androsch. This is also mentioned here. [[Abg. Brosz: But there are enough examples at the ÖVP!]] It is, however, a matter of living up to transparency. That was justifiably said by Mr Steinhauser: We publish all the renowned donors, but also all those who support us, no matter what amounts. This is revealed on the People's Party's homepage and we stand for it. I don't understand why you go here and criticize that we have renowned donors. Why are people currently donating for Sebastian Kurz? – Because he has started a big movement because he wants to change this country and because the people outside simply feel that he has that stuff to lead this country into a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Please go! That's the purest autosuggest!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's where he has to laugh!]] That's why thousands of people donate for Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me give you an example: We had a big event with us in the Inn district, in Ried im Innkreis. 3 500 people came because they wanted to see Sebastian briefly because they wanted to take a photo with him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] While I was there, so to speak, swinging through the masses, an older gentleman knocks me on the shoulder and says: What can I do? I want to donate something to the short, too, that's a super guy and I choose him and I want him to become Federal Chancellor. – That is what we are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: You can't defend yourselves, gal?- Oh, my God!]] That is why I think it is completely inappropriate what is listed here with entrepreneurs. It is pretended to be a second-class businessman. I am against what is being said here about Stefan Pierer. [[Interlocutors Walter Rosenkranz and Steinhauser.]] Stefan Pierer is a successful entrepreneur and KTM is a globally visible company, located in my constituency, in the district of Braunau, in Mattighofen. I can only tell you the following: As a motorcycle manufacturer, KTM has a market share of 9.6 percent in Europe and 6 percent in the USA. The annual turnover is over EUR 1 billion. The company employs – now watchful, especially on social democracy! – a total of more than 5,000 employees, of whom 4,000 work in Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The bikes are not affected, you can continue to buy them!]] That means that this is a demonstration company, including research, innovation and technology. We from the new People's Party do not object to the fact that these entrepreneurs are being mistreated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Are you all right?]] They make an excellent contribution to society as a whole. [[Abg. Kogler: You didn't understand anything!]] When it comes to working time flexibility, you almost have to ask yourself why Pierer donated the money in short and the ÖVP. He should have given it to the SPÖ, because in the plan A by Mr. Kern on page 34: ‘In the case of smoothing time, 12 hours of daily working time shall be possible, but only if the For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: So we find the demand not only for entrepreneurs and Mr Pierer, but we also find it in the plan A by Mr Bundeskanzler Kern, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But we didn't get any money for it!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Are you actually talking about party donations, or is that too demanding?]] The second important aspect is the following: I understand that some are beginning to fear now because we are revealing everything. There is complete transparency in the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] We're gonna open everything up, yeah. But when I get involved with organizations like the Weil platform, what's going on! or the sage Association Idea look at, then I see that there is no transparency there. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens]] We call on the People's Party to be fully transparent in these areas too. We do not have that in these organizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is what we call for, ladies and gentlemen. That's why we are. [[Abg. Kogler: Do you want to apply here for the Villacher Fasching?]] - No, I couldn't beat you there. That would be impossible and is therefore pointless, Mr Kogler. By the way, we agree with some of the points in the urgent request of the Greens, namely, that there should be loopholes for political funding associations and political person committees in the Party Law in order to exclude any kind of circumvention in the future. Mr Gerstl will also put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject by our group. To conclude, I would like to say: Before You here 25 days before a National Council election call for new standards and new laws, you should first stick to the transparency which the People's Party is already living on.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22214	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on behalf of the European Democratic Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22235	Madam President. In such a speech, you don't know whether you're in high school or bouts of speech. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] However, I have already wondered why Mr Kurz has been advised by the minimum pensioners with a bet letter, if the economic operators are all so happy to give to the ÖVP, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would now like to return to the urgent request of the Greens. Mr Steinhauser, you have listed in your request nine points to be taken into account by the Federal Chancellor in a draft law to be submitted. I have just looked at the first point, namely the Council of Europe’s recommendations on the transparency of party funding. I've been worried about the recommendations and I've also printed them out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] I am well aware that party donations are an emotional topic especially in times of election. Nevertheless, we should really keep our heads cool and leave the church in the village. As far as policy-makers at all levels are concerned, the position of the liberals is quite clear: Party donations must be disclosed. There's nothing to shake at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Grants to decision-makers must not be made at all. And everyone who takes over a political office knows anyway that he has to bear the consequences of publishing his own income and the like. Transparency is lived here at all levels. Of course, you give up a piece of your privacy when you disclose your income, but everyone who goes into politics knows that. If you don't want to, you won't lose anything in politics. That's it. Nevertheless, there are limits which must not be exceeded. They call here for the extension of the disclosure obligation to family members, even without any reasonable suspicion. If there is a reasonable suspicion that anything is not right, normal criminal law shall apply. We don't need to talk about it any more. However, this extension also applies without suspicion. Mr Auer – because I am seeing him right now – has already spoken on this subject several times and has told us what our family members have to do with disadvantages if they want to open a bank account for play. I already point out that we have slowly reached the border. I've got three kids, they've all opened a youth account at a bank, and just because they're kids of a politician... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] There has been a great deal of exaggeration, and we ourselves have already made excessive regulations. There must be a slow stop. What the Council of Europe calls for is far beyond the goal – well-known in the face of unfounded suspicion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, through my many trips as an OSCE election observer, I have also met another side of democracy, not only in the US, who believe that they are the hort of democracy, but also in many eastern countries, also in neighbouring countries. That's what I'm giving you. I don't want this system. I don't want Oligarchen to buy politicians, buy parties, or just go to politics to continue her own business. This system must not take place in Austria at all, so I make a very clear commitment to state party financing so that one does not get into the dependence of oligarchs or family clans. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even if it is not as bad as it is in some countries in the East, it is interesting to see where the donations and other donations to the individual parties come from. Mr Pierer, the KTM chief who has already been addressed, is not the only one who sponsors the ÖVP. If you look at the last years, 307,691 € have been transferred from the Raiffeisen group to the ÖVP. [[Abg. Belakovich: Go, that's surprising!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: I'm not really surprised now!]] The Raiffeisen therefore not only takes over the political burden disposal but also the financing of the active ones. [[Abg. Kogler: He was good!]] - Yeah, he wasn't bad, but that's just by the way. Let's also look at the SPÖ: The SPÖ is usually not so generously thought of by the financial world, yet it has brought it at least 70,400 € from Bank Austria. Of course, this has nothing to do with the fact that the red city of Vienna has assumed liability for this bank. It's a coincidence. Interestingly, the SPÖ also received a small grant of € 10,000 from Mr Stronach in 2014 – that is, clearly competitive funding. [[Abg. New builder: I don’t believe that!]] Otherwise, the SPÖ prefers to use state or semi-governmental pots. By the way, this proves a donation from the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol to the SPÖ of 50 500 €. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] So there is also a hard distribution of money in Austria, and there is already the question: What's the whole thing for? I don't think there's anything for anything, either. It is therefore quite appropriate to look very closely at what comes from whom and what possible counter-performance for it flows. Today, we are often told by the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP, for which they have used all the nice money.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22372	The next item is Mr Dr. Strolz's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22393	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear August Wöingererof the ÖVP! Where is he, the August Wöinger? There he is! The Villacher Fasching is looking for a new EU farmer. I'd apply for your place, because that was already close to the cabaret. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] You as ÖVP want to sign up here as a lighthouse of transparency, that is immense! First of all, just before the introduction of the new transparency law in 2013, ÖVP was paid €6 to €7 million by night. We and the citizens still do not know where the money came from. Where did the money come from? - We don't know! [[Abg. Belakovich:... witnesses!]] It is kept in the dark, just as your black princes keep the promotions in the dark. That's not okay! That's not okay! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kogler.]] Let's take a look at it further: Of course, there were very large donations over all these years. I remember Asamer, who donated half a million euros last time. Because you have such an obsession with Hazelsteiner: Mr Haselsteiner also donated to the ÖVP at the time, he strongly supported the Greens in the presidential election campaign, and I think he has a very good relationship with Mr Gusenbauer – he has something to do with social democracy. So put your obsession down! Take an example! The NEOS have come here and set a new standard in terms of transparency. There was no such thing as that. Mr Rädler, every sausage seal, every paper roll we disclose, day in and day out, all year round. [[Abg. Steinhauser: And in front of loud paper you can no longer see the party donation!]] What does Short do? - Just a short show here. It actually opens the top of an iceberg – € 1 million. But he doesn't open everything under it. The problem of the EIA is the following: If you look at this election campaign, you will not be able to challenge it under €12 million. You will, of course, acquire this budget through many creative circumvention of the legal situation, with the help of preparatory organizations, from associations, from all the dense interweaving – I claim – structural darkening, in order not to overturn it even more grossly, which you operate here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: From the chambers!]] This is a very miserable business model. The ÖVP has begun this election campaign with an untruth when the new party observer said it was all very surprising and he would not want to be personally angry on Mitterlehner. He said it was all very surprising and later it was said that there was a 200-page detailed paper in which even very spontaneous flash mobs were planned. It was all minutely planned, and he says: It was all very surprising for me. It's not good to start a election struggle with so much insincereness. That's not good! [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] They're stuffing their pockets and they can't get the bags full enough. They're getting money from frontal organizations. The Minister for Agriculture somehow sends ads to a newspaper, which is owned by the Farmers' Federation via a trust-building structure. And again, tax money flows to the ÖVP. The SPÖ is no better at all. The city of Vienna commissions any contractors who are owned by any trustees of the SPÖ or in the run-up to the SPÖ. This is the form of money laundering of red and black that people no longer accept. It is not all right for you to pull the money out of people and at the same time we have one of the highest tax and tax rates on this planet. You don't get your neck full. What to do? – First of all: I am in favour of recruiting all the associations and leading organizations. NEOS has prohibited this by statute. We don't have businesses. I think this is both right and important so that this form of money laundering can no longer happen as it is operated here by red and black. Secondly, We need to narrow the chambers. We call for the abolition of compulsory membership. The chambers are a printing machine, especially for the red and black power cartel. They are committing millions in an improper way. That's not all right. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Stefan.]] Thirdly, We have to restrict the federal states. It's crazy what Mr. Häupl and Mr. Co are doing here. In the Federation, dear citizens, you are worth 4,60 €. 4,60 € is distributed per person entitled to vote! What are you doing, Vassilakou? – The €23.40 per nose. 4,60 € in the federal government, in Vienna – Red-Green – 23 € and more, and each year the amount will be increased, ladies and gentlemen! Where has the amount not been increased? – In a federal state, in Vorarlberg. Why? – Because the NEOS are represented in the Landtag and the other parties have said... [[General cheerfulness and intermediate calls]] Vorarlberg has the lowest party funding of Austria, and it has not been increased because NEOS are represented in the Landtag and because the other parties have said, then the NEOS Radau beat. [[Further calls.]] Where did the other parties not feel? In Vienna! There they all sit in a boat: the blues, the greens, the reds, the blacks! You've been shameless – shameless! What did you do after the last choice, when many of you lost? You have the highest party promotion in Vienna, €23 per nose, and what have you done? – They have also introduced academic funding. Shame! NEOS does not accept this money. We don't want that! This is enrichment at the expense of taxpayers. That's miserable. Stop it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They steal the people. [[Call: But now it's going to be bad]] – I thought there was no emotion in there, but it was possible. They steal the people, and that is why we have to restrict the corridor for the national parties. If the princes of the country do not feel that way, we must limit the corridor for the promotion of parties. That's not how it is! That's not how it goes! ==References====External links== It's the first time I've ever seen it, but it's the first time I've ever seen it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22528	Mr. Klubobmann Strolz! I'm going to get the protocol because I haven't heard it now; but if it's so that you said, "They're stealing the people," that's the accusation of a criminally relevant offence, and I'm going to give you a call for order for it. I am waiting for the minutes and will then inform the plenary of my decision. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, Mr. Abge-orderer.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22552	Madam President. The strength of Mr Strolz is probably not to peak right now, and I will not even try to do so. I will then turn to the ÖVP and address the appearance that Mr Wöginger has delivered here, but first of all: Matthias Strolz! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Now I don't understand anything anymore!]] All right, we only have the impression if you compare this: The sausages are still known from these collections, but you lose the large donors because you have so much paper that you can wrap the large donations with it. This is a problem, it has to create something, so to speak, when you look in; but we can all learn – you too! Let's go to the history of transparency, that's important to me, and let's come to the huge derailments – I almost have to say – of Mr Wöginger! No one has claimed here – and this is more serious than the Villacher Fasching – that entrepreneurs or companies themselves are now to discredit because they are successful and, so to speak, also bring something to the regional economy or the economy. Yes, certainly, these are also jobs – this is a completely different subject, but that was intention, because it is even apparent with ÖAAB education background as it is meant. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Call damage is what you do to the companies!]] - No, he really doesn't understand. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the NEOS.]] That's incredible. So we will actually have to think about the use of educational funds in the ÖVP. There seems to be some implication. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go, please!]] It must be understood that this is something else, if it is particularly important – yes, they are important – and they are sending large companies into the political system – I am not talking about lubricating money, but rather about using it normally – as the activity and action of entrepreneurs in the economic environment. You can still see it like that. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I did not do this differently in these debates – and Steinhauser did not suggest it at all today; look at the ORF, this button even I find, so this is also reasonable to the ÖAAB; look at the ORF TV library – often argued, it is quite clear that we have not made any difference to the companies that donate. [[Abg. Wöginger: The last offer to be delivered there!]] One can argue about whether Mr Pierer then wants to do something politically. That's what Steinhauser did. At that time I added what he said on the main theme of today's time, such as the environment and the economy – literally, look at it – would be a hat. I mean, nothing good, yet it is respected by me as a successful businessman in the conventional sense. So stop it! You have completely cut past the subject during your entire speech, but that may not happen by chance either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us look at the transparency history of the ÖVP! Now you're painting turquoise. This may have a good reason to talk about transparency, because black is the color of absorption of all light, and you had to answer that until recently. And this is really a good indication – we have reconciled – as far as the ÖVP is concerned. Mr Brosz has already stated that we would not have made the party donation at all, if we had not – Mr Wabl has already begun to do so – for years, for more than ten years to finally enforce this law. In most places it is extremely reproducible, but in the party donations there is a very clear core, there has been something successful. And since that was so, you obviously have mobilized everything in advance to put in what nobody should see afterwards, and you haven't revealed that to this day. If you are already shining around with the turquoise headlight again, we will also turn on the light that shines into the history of the ÖVP, which is not so long past. That would be for credibility, that would be good if Mr. Kurz and his entire new sect club would do so to shine into what happened there. [[Abg. Lopatka: Hello! What does that mean?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: But first you are a sect, I tell you!]] The history of the ÖVP in the Austrian political movements is a history of transparency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now let's look at what happened here not too long ago. To date, they do not want to disclose – right up to the federal states, we do not want to do so until now – what you received from Raiffeisen until recently. [[Abg. Auer: Haha!]] – But there is, I know. You don't want to do that in the federal states. You know, what if you contact the federal party managers of the ÖVP? - Haha, you'll never get on it! That's the story. Of course, everywhere is donated, but if they do this right now, I don't know; not until recently! The next items concern exactly the scandals we have always had. You think that's all chance with Eurofighter, that's all chance at the hypo, even if it's not down to the detail, not every stream of money, not always where the receivers sit, is comprehensible? – This dark donation box has always contributed to this, because it would have to show all payments. I mean, they won't be booked as bribery money, I wouldn't trust you and not even believe it, because it insults your intelligence, but because everything was always kept in the dark box, it was always a favor, even for these processes. And you don't do anything about this! Now you just enter the stage in the new light, and what was before scarce past is not rolled up. We should all look at the fact that there is also credibility here, because for so long the Lord has been in the government and in the ÖVP – I do not know how young he was; Mr Strolz must know that – at least in an ÖVP-near club, that he could already be expected to contribute to the reconnaissance of these dark chapters of the ÖVP for the last ten, 15 years. They're safe, but he's not doing anything! Telekom, not so long ago: Who's up there? The NEOS, the Greens? Who put in the Deutsche Telekom? – The ÖVP with certainty. This is always the same system, even there has been raiffeisen. Raiffeisen throws something into the funnel at the top, which then runs through a few wheels, and there are special accounts below, where credits for the ÖVP campaigns are on it. It's not been that long. Therefore, you even have a procedure in your ranks, including as regards the Graz ÖVP. It's just that you're at the front and have no reason at all to present yourself here as something special. If from now on everything gets better – and Mr Steinhauser has also praised that – then it is good. All I mean is that you are also responsible for dealing with the past before you only call for a new future in order to become credible, because you lack it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All these grasseriades that we had, all of this has only been able to grow up in this environment and in this dark circle. This has not really developed in the FPÖ, but in the culture of your equal, and now again the total grassification of the ÖVP is threatening. It's recognizable. You should get ready in time. I withdraw this from the Villacher Fasching, which has affected this speech by the ÖVP member. That was rather my impression, because the thing is much more serious. I have the feeling that pride comes before the case. That's funny now, because you're focusing on a election success. It may also occur, but at the time the mood was quite the same, and it took only a few years or even months to get around all these types all started. We'll identify the buberl parties there will be. By the way, there is already enough in the ÖVP, who still want to keep the old conservative or also the Christian social who already warn of what is getting together in Vienna. Check out and then take all your new swing and run past management! [[Abg. Wöginger: Maybe you should deal with the 6 percent in your own party!]] Look, I stand there because an essential parliamentary task is to clarify and also to ensure new rules in the future. We also have proposals to do so. I now come to the point of why there is a wrong development. It makes sense to have upper limits of donations – but we do not have enough – so that certain discussions do not have to take place as here and now. I agree that you might still be able to change. In any case, this gift casino with Mr Pierer would not be possible at a fixed ceiling of € 10 000. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Actually, as Mr Steinhauser said so correctly, donations from companies, corporations should not be at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22719	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22734	In fact, they have political influence, which they always try not to increase with plenty of money. Make a conscience cure, it will do you good, otherwise you will end up like black/blue again!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22761	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22783	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the debate is necessary because it is really a question of how politics is financed, how to finance elections. There are different models for this. In the United States, for example, where there is a right to vote in one election, there is the model that everyone often has to use several million to be elected at all, and this money comes to 80 to 90 percent of large businesses, from corporations. This is done at every choice. In the last presidential campaign in the USA, I think over $1 billion has been invested in election advertising. Where did this money come from? – 80 to 90 percent of major international corporations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The question is: Do we want a political system in which companies decide which Members have the money at all to make election advertising, or do we want to have a different system, one in which Members do not depend on donations from businesses and groups? That's a question you have to ask yourself. That's why the first question is, if you look at the list – that's very pleasant, that's what everyone can look at on the Internet – who spends there. One can then goggle at once, which people are what else they give of themselves. One also sees which companies donate, and of course the question is, why companies donate money for political parties. [[Abg. Jewellery: Can you look at the SPÖ side?- Oh, my God!]] I still understand when people donate; but you have to distinguish between people and companies, and it is already annoying that companies donate. The question arises as to how this is treated at all tax. Is this perhaps a useful issue? Is this a reduction in profits or does it have to be taxed? Is that then deducted from equity? – On and on its own, it should be deducted exclusively from equity from the taxed profits. Therefore, I would be interested to see whether, in particular, the Minister of Finance in the tax audits is looking very closely at the fact that all these donations are, of course, only paid out of tax profits and are not yet deducted from the tax, because some of them would then pay the general public quite again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] First question: Why even companies? Is that what we want? - I'm of the opinion, no. Second: The extreme example of the United States shows that there are, of course, also individuals there who have a lot of money that Members, parties and so on can buy. We had such a small party in Austria – but there is no longer any – that someone bought or assembled more or less. At first, it was Legionaries who were bought by the BZÖ at the time, I think, then they were also elected. This leads to the need to ask the question: Shouldn't there be a limit? You can discuss this, you can discuss where this border should be, but I think it is quite reasonable to talk about it. Honestly, I would recommend everyone to look at this. He can then also goug the people behind the donation and can also goug what political demands these persons give. In short, only 22 large donors donate more than 60 percent. [[Abg. Jewellery beater: Can you say something about the SPÖ page?]] 60 percent of donations come from 22 people, and about these 22 people you can find out, you can find out what the political demands of the daily newspapers are so reported. I can tell you what this is: a 12-hour day, of course without supplements, and that means less pay for more work; Pensions only from 67, i.e. you are only allowed to retire from 67 years of age; Taxation is down for rich people and corporations; saves in health; and in reality: away with the Chamber of Workers, which does not surprise me, because the Chamber of Labour fights hundreds of millions of euros for its members each year, and this must be paid by someone. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Listen, hear!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They then pay the farms that then donate to the parties who want to abolish it. I'm not surprised that the FPÖ is getting so nervous. You have to look at this: Part of these claims is already in the economic programme of the ÖVP, and the time of the donation of Pierer was particularly spicy, namely a day after the ÖVP presented its economic programme, in which there is, among other things, that there is no corporate tax for unabsorbed profits. A day later, the Court of Auditors was informed that Pierer had donated the money. That was exactly the next day; also interesting from the sequence. As far as the economic programme is concerned, there has been a discussion of who has written off from whom. Has the ÖVP written off from the FPÖ or the FPÖ of the ÖVP? I think the solution to the mystery is quite simple: They have both been written off by the Industrial Union, because if you look at the programmes, you can see where all these demands come from. Everyone can remember when we had black/blue. We remember how politics was then: The same is true, the taxes on corporations and the rich have been reduced, and for this the taxes on work have remained the same or have even been increased. We remember the ambulance charges and so on. At the time, they introduced 30 taxes and fees, but not for the rich, but for the large masses. That's what you did back then. And now, before the election, everyone should know that those who now finance the short campaign of over 60 percent want to have exactly this policy again and that FPÖ has already implemented its programme in such a way that it can support it. [[Abg. Jewelry beaters: You don't know it!]] Everyone should know what it is all about: work longer, pay less, i.e. twelve-hour day; later in retirement, sausages how long you are unemployed, hopes if you are sick, pension is only available from 67; save on health; the Chamber of Labour would also like to abolish you. I tell you that your own voters are afraid that you are represented in the government and that you are really implementing it, because the Chamber of Labour – which all employees in Austria know – is a friend and a helper when help is needed, and this is very often the case. They really want to abolish them! You'll see what on the 15th. October is coming out.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22904	Next speaker: Mr Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e22926	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I'm just trying to get facts to speak, because the election campaign is already emotionalized enough. The spectator could have the impression that something is wrong here, and therefore I would like to quote the current party law very much because Mr Kogler has acted as if this had not been done in accordance with the party law or even the party law would be bad. [[Abg. Kogler: Ha!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Yours!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] This party law dates back to 2012, when Member Kogler spoke of a tangible law and a very large throw; he has said since that time that it is a huge leap compared to the previous regulations. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] [[Abg. Maurer: Exactly, and now we need...!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Ten years...!]] So, colleague Kogler, can we leave the church in the village? We have decided together. SPÖ, Greens and ÖVP have jointly adopted this law. [[Abg. Kogler: If you hadn't tricked the Eastermayer, we wouldn't have it today!]] At the beginning of July Sebastian Kurz presented what election donation he wanted to use, political scientist Hubert Sickinger came and called the model of Sebastian Kurz “smart and exemplary”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – “Klug and exemplary” because Sebastian is using short campaign tools that the NEOS, the Federal Presidency candidate Irmgard Griss and the green Federal Presidency candidate Alexander Van der Bellen. Van der Bellen has taken over over €2 million in donations over this system, which Sebastian has now taken over in short, in the second election, in the repetition. [[Abg. Belakovich: Can you repeat this for the voters?]] [[Abg. Kogler: But not 400 000...! It's about the big donors!]] Ladies and gentlemen, why was there no excitement at the time, and why is there excitement today when Sebastian Kurzdas The same does what other parties have done before? – It may only have to do with the election campaign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to this attack on large donations: What have we done in the party law? – We have committed all parties to the need for large donations, namely those of over €50,000, to be published to the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly, but a limit was not possible with you! That was the point!]] The Court of Auditors has published a list and all citizens can review this list. [[Keeping a document in height]] And if you look at this list, you see it has 63 entries from the years 2012 to 2017. More than 50 entries are from two parties: the NEOS and the Stronach team – only so that we know who has received the majority of large donations in this country. [[Abg. Look at this!]] ==References====External links== August 2017 also an entry over €98 000 from Lawyer University Professor Dr. Alfred Noll to the list Peter Pilz. [[Abg. Look at this!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But hello!]] And now I find a Dr. Alfred Noll on the list of candidates in the list of candidates. Is it the same person? [[Call to the ÖVP:... green basic understanding!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: The one is the lawyer, the other is the writer!]] Is this a green basic understanding, ladies and gentlemen? And if we look further on the list: Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner donated € 1.9 million to the Liberal Forum and NEOS during this period. [[Abg. Auer: How much? 1.9 million euros?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the words of Mr Strolz very well before. I very much appreciate Mr Strolz or I very much appreciate him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] He is one of those who went out at the beginning of this period and said he wanted a new style. He went out and began to appreciate. [[Abg. Steinhauser: But that's been a long time!]] Today he throws money laundering, criminally incriminated things that he knows are not, and he accuses you of stealing. – Mr Strolz, you have left this new style. The new style is now at Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call: Oh God]] The new style lies in transparency. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We can't read that!]] You can all read this on the homepage – that's just a copy – on the Internet. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: List Sebastian Kurz: a copy! There's the color copier so bad that you don't have to...!]] This is the homepage where you can read all donors: All, all donors can read you, and that's the difference. Over two thirds of all donations came from small donors, 20 € to 100 €. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a movement in this country, as it has never been, a desire for change as it has never been, a desire for which people come to me – I have since 1. August over 3,000 house visits made – and ask: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] How can I help you? How can I help you with good ideas? How can I help you to make Sebastian Kurzden Change, which is necessary, in this country? How can I help you? Even if I only give you 20 €, will that help you? [[Abg. Steinhauser: Now I understand why disciples are being spoken about!]] Yes, with us you can donate quite openly, and you can also announce everything. Transparency is important because transparency is the best way to combat corruption. And I can only ask you all: If everyone continues with respect to transparency like the ÖVP, then it is possible that corruption in that country is excluded.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23274	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23295	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is now almost amusing to listen here, to hear this incitement of transparency and so on: Everyone praises how transparent it is, but the reason for the debate is another. Is there any influence on a party through donations, and can one assume that if there are large donations, something is expected for that? Therein lies the difference that makes it up! Small donations, that is perfectly clear, must be allowed, and it is of course gratifying if the minimum pensioner really gets into the bag and says: Buy yourself a beer or whatever! and donate for it, or someone says: They look bad, so they get money! or whatever. That's all right, but it's about whether there are dependencies. And you have to have this discussion very well, because if you donate €500 000, it is so relevant for a party that you have to discuss it. Of course, this is not at all the only problem, and in so far as I agree that many other things have now been discussed. If we are talking about dependencies and transparency, we can talk about the city of Vienna and the companies of SPÖ, which are completely opaque. Although you know who owns it, there are commissions, there is indirect value creation that flows back into the party – even that is completely opaque – and we do not know exactly what amounts it is about. It is about the support of frontal organisations – this is also completely opaque, because they are not parties and are therefore not subject to the Party law. Therefore, it is not clear where the money is flowing. There are the independent personal committees – a complete duck! If the money is flown in there and bunked, I can save myself the whole party law. I can also spare the whole discussion of how I can finance an election campaign if I do so on these detours. The dog is actually buried there, and there are the real problems in addition to the big donations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are questions when billionaires are serving and political advisers are playing. What interests do they have? Those of the little man are not, but also their own. – That too is to be discussed. We still know this whole ad problem from earlier on. Federal Chancellor Faymann was the ad icon, where we saw that an incredible number of ads were placed for close-to-state businesses. Interestingly, ÖBB, Asfinag and so on have advertised – probably because of the big competition. In reality, this was also an indirect influence, as always called, and in reality it was also intrusive and at a very high altitude, and it was well over €500 000. We can also, when we talk about transparency, talk about how this works in the ORF: where ORF moderators may still be allowed to occur, where they still get money from which organizations they work. – This too is a topic. Of course you can also talk about the chambers. The Chamber of Commerce has € 800 million in revenue a year, the Chamber of Workers € 400 million. These are amounts that are really relevant, since the parties are almost negligible in their financing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] What do they do with how much politics is being done there? When you look at this: Most of them, of course, are personnel expenses. - Well, what do personnel expenses mean? What can I do there? How transparent is that? Are they actually writing and publishing political writings and studies all the time? – I mean, in retrospect, they know that they do very well. In reality, the financing of parties is also covered, to a very large extent! [[Call:Genau]] For example, yesterday in St. Pölten there was an event with 500 people – the Federal Chancellor and all SPÖ-Grands of Lower Austria were in St. Pölten – funded by the Chamber of Workers. Well, you could think that's election campaign and that this is being financed. – This is actually indirect financing of parties. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] – We also need to discuss all of this. What the workers' chamber is going to do: No one is for the abolition of the Chamber of Workers, but do you have to be a forced member? Do you have to be? Do you have to be a Forced Member in the Chamber of Commerce? – I am of the opinion: No, no, no, [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] And if one argues that the Chamber of Labour provides legal protection and the workers represent: Yes, nice and good, then we make a legal protection insurance for every employee! This certainly brings more than such an effort, €400 million a year, of which much is spent on personnel costs and can therefore make policy. So there are so many topics, and it's completely right: We need to discuss this. Transparency is important, but we do not resist in any small things. Everyone tries to point out to the others to distract themselves. It's really a lot to change! The law of the parties is also indiscriminate. It has created many problems that we really need to change. We voted against because we thought it was an unfinished law, it is not until the last consequence, and it also leads to the fact that in reality we all, who finance an election campaign, have the allocation of the billing and so on, have the biggest problems. So there are also many technical problems. So that's a big topic, but many here really have to come at their own door and then start to admit the big issues, namely, honestly, where they are making money, which influences are being put, and then we can discuss them openly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23359	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23380	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am very glad that Mr Stefan has brought the debate back to a serious point, because what was discussed here before was somewhat bizarre. I also think it is important that we discuss the subject of party funding here. You all know that NEOS has been a major topic for us since the beginning, because we are deeply convinced that the promotion of parties in Austria is too high. What I find bizarre is how, in principle, private donors are demonised here by several parties, at least it sounds that way. [[Abg. Belakovich: Not private donations...!]] Now I want to deal with a few arguments. I do not disagree with the arguments of Mr Wöinger, because that was so close and curious that I think this should not be addressed at all. [[Abg. Lopatka: What are you doing?]] – There are other arguments that have fallen. The Greens once said that they admitted to us that it was all right for a certain Mr. Hazelsteiner to give us money at the beginning, otherwise we would not have had a chance at all. – I think it's good that this comes out at least now, because the request does not make it that way. It is, of course, true that a new party, if one cannot at all receive donations at all at the beginning, has no chance of entering Parliament, and that cannot be the access of the Greens in itself. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The Greens did it!]] Mr Brosz then said: Well, there are still donations from Hans Peter Haselsteiner. – Yes, of course, there are still donations because, as you know very well, NEOS are currently sitting in two country days, because there were several country elections between them and, of course, to get into these representative bodies, if there is no public party funding, there is also a need to take control of money accordingly. [[Abg. Lopatka: And if you were in all the country days, would you...?]] Another argument that has fallen is that I find, by the way, scurry... – Hans Peter Haselsteiner said today that if NEOS were in the government, he would not pay any more donations. [[Abg. Lopatka: And when NEOS come to the government?]] What I still think is important and what has come is this general ban on large donations. - We've already heard: It was also the Greens, because it was a green candidate for the Federal presidential election, who received a donation of € 100 000. What it's about me – I don't have a problem with it at all –: The question is, what in principle has been put into space, whether in any way one is affected anyway. If it is true that anyone who receives € 100,000 in donations is affected, then we should also assume that the Federal President Van der Bellen was influenced. I don't see it like that! The Greens obviously have a problem with this or have these concerns; I cannot understand that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] When the Greens talk about transparency, of course, this is also a bit succinct, because if you look at the Greens' homepage, you can only see accounts in close-up and expenditure, not single posts. Those who are exemplary in the field of transparency in Austria are NEOS, because we specify every revenue and every issue – that might also be in the direction of ÖVP, because a few revenues somewhere transparent does not yet mean that you are really transparent; this could be taken by colleague Wöginger. Of course you have to do both! Another argument is that brought by the Federal Minister. – Mr Federal Minister, you have to forgive me, but stand down and say that the SPÖ does not need a large donor, because you just decided a few weeks ago that you no longer accept, is, as I think, first of all difficult. It is then understandable that you have no need of large donors if the rent of the SPÖ's federal party headquarters costs almost €4 per square meter and the SPÖ has saved €4.4 million over the last ten years. At the rental rate, I would most likely not need a big donor. However, you have to deal with those people who pay far more rent. It's a little bold to say: I don't need any donations if you pay so little rent in Vienna. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. New builder.]] I remember the Greens in the Vienna Landtag election campaign “Money for Education instead of Bonzen”, but they were also those who were there when they introduced the Party Academy funding in Vienna. Now one can say that is an educational assignment – that is to say, the basic objective of the academies – but which is not understandable, is that we continue to tax the taxpayer. By the way, all the parties – SPÖ, Greens, FPÖ, ÖVP – who invented this new Academy funding, because there was less money because of the corresponding loss of votes. In other words, we have considered how to continue burdening taxpayers and have come to the following solution: Because it would be a bit shameless to further increase the promotion of parties in Vienna, which is the highest party funding at all, we invent an academy and see that we create jobs there according to those people who are in the dark circle. I do not think that is understandable, and that what it should actually be about is the greatest possible transparency. I said it before: We are NEOS those who show the greatest transparency possible. They could all cut off one piece and also publish all revenue and all expenditure accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Whatever we would need is a sensible electoral cost limit, so that not so much tax money is thrown out. We have proposed a euro per person entitled to vote at all levels. We have about this height now at federal level; the problem is only the federal states that have upper-wing costs, which are very high. The Greens are right in terms of sanctions. It is, of course, right that it is somewhat ridiculous that, if you don't give an account, you don't have to pay anything. And with regard to the fines in case of an election cost exceeding: Let us remember the ÖVP, which in 2013 overlaid by €4 million and then had to pay ridiculous €600,000 ponales. The then Federal Party Minister Mitterlehner, who then had to pay this, said he knew nothing about it. The new ÖVP makes it more skillful when it spends so much money before the deadline, that it totals well over €7 million. I dare to doubt that this was the aim of the upper limit on the election cost. What we need to do is to increase this period accordingly in order to save more money for taxpayers. If we want to discuss transparency seriously, Mr Wöginger, take an example of NEOS. Make You don't reveal such small things that they reveal donations somewhere, but don't say how you spend them. Transparency works – it can work – but then you have to do it seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23503	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23524	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! So I have to say that the so-called new EIA, the alleged movement, looks quite old again in this debate. It has made sure that the ÖVP now acts as if it were the most transparent party at all, and that it is the party that consistently walls on every transparency issue we debate here. Whether it is party financing or official secrecy or information freedom – the ÖVP is guaranteed to have a Njet! That's why it's completely ridiculous to be here and say: We're the best! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wöginger has now given examples of donations and said that this has always been the case, that these large donations are nothing new. – Then he had to go back to the schilling time, to a Androsch donation of a million schillings. [[Abg. Wöginger: But Van der Bellen was...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] No, that was the example of Mr Wöginger, so to speak: That's nothing new, there's no need for action. On this point I would also like to address the debate on Alexander Van der Bellen and the Federal presidential election campaign, because apples are already being compared with pears: Where is there a party funding for the financing of presidential elections? And the much more important point is: What is the direct possibility of a federal president's influence on legislation? [[Abg. Scherak: Laws not...!]] It is already quite different if a large industrialist, who has a very great interest in working time flexibility et cetera, spends to a current government party with a minister as a top candidate or if an industrialist for a federal president who has de facto formal duties in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So he's not worth anything anyway? Now I understand!]] I would like to take a brief look at the law itself. It was previously claimed that the Party Financing Act was one of the most stringent in Europe. That's absolutely wrong, sorry. Slovenia, for example, has a limit on the donations of individuals who are at the average income per month. There are our own election finance reports shortly after the election day, where we do not have to wait as long as we do. Donations are prohibited. Germany is also a fitting example. We have this absurd situation that poor reports can be sanctioned, but if you don't report at all, it's meaty. In Germany, for In all cases, the party promotion is gradually deprived of it. Thus, the strictest law cannot be spoken at all. A major point concerning the Court of Auditors is that the Court of Auditors currently has to write a report on something that it itself cannot verify for its accuracy. We can de facto state what we want, the Court of Auditors has no way to look into the books of the parties and to check whether what we have stated is actually right. We need to change that very urgently. I'll call on the ÖVP right away. Voices You're at this point! You're saying you're the big transparency icons now. Then you will allow the Court of Auditors the insight into your books, then we can eliminate the ambiguities! [[Call the ÖVP: No words!]] Another point: The limit now amounts to € 50 000, and this amount must be notified to the Court of Auditors. However, it is possible, but it is legal to donate €49 000 every single day, and this does not have to be reported immediately. This will only become public a year and a half later, so for this election campaign in spring 2019, when everything is long over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] [[Call to the ÖVP: You haven't read the law!]] We have already experienced this with the Stronach donations, which has not interested anyone many years later. To prevent these things and to actually create transparency, the appeal: Voices Let us ask you to do this. I would also like to say one thing: You're not a movement, just because you claim you're one. You're not transparent either, just because you're saying you're transparent. You must take up the proof of truth in the transparency issues we have: Official secrecy, freedom of information and party financing law. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] Take these steps forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23651	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23673	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! In the urgent request of the Greens, which is before us, there are basically three regulatory areas to be tightened in the 2012 Party Act. The first point is the introduction of an absolute ceiling on parties for natural and legal persons. [[Abg. Belakovich: What? A Party Upper Limit?]] – A top-of-party financing limit! So: The first point is the introduction of a cap on party donations for natural and legal persons, with a view to discussing the sum. The sum you've set up is a little too low for us, but you can certainly discuss it. What must not be, is that there is ultimately an influence on the parties, and influence by economic interests must be prevented. Yes, we are in favour of closing the gaps in the party law. There are always laws that need to be improved where there are evaluations. You just have to see if you should do something or not. Secondly, we would be at the Court of Auditors, which the colleague has just referred to me. The Court of Auditors can now examine, but the Court of Auditors is not examining its effectiveness but its legality, and this should remain the case. The sanctions relating to the accounts you are addressing are rather critical. We believe that the penalty payments are quite dissuasive and would actually be sufficient. The third point still inside concerns the recommendations of the Council of Europe on the transparency of party funding in Austria. This is probably due to the definition that was in there in the GRECO report 2011. This has already served as the basis for the discussion when we passed the party law. From our point of view, from the point of view of SPÖ, we need a clear commitment to democracy and a clear commitment to political parties as a key component of Austrian democracy. We are opposed to the political parties, unlike others who are now a so-called movement, but with this movement we want to, in the end, re-cash the promotion of parties. This is not what we stand for, because I think that is rather indecent. We stand for good party funding, with the independence of the parties to be guaranteed. The acceptance of the population will only be given if transparency is there. We Socialists do not participate in theherabliitation of party funding in order to fund large donations as a substitute for it. The introduction of an upper limit is, I think, a positive thing to guarantee the independence of the parties from companies. Mr. Gerstl, you said you had been since 1. August 3,000 home visits. That's 51 days when you figure this out, that's 60 a day. But we have also found papers in front of the doors of the residents who have looked a bit like a pickerl for the car. That's what it said: “Wolfgang Gerstl was there!” ==References== The next time it's due again, it's September 2019. So if you've counted them all, then, I think, this also has a humorous value. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Wöginger, on the subject of gliding time and 12-hour day: We know that's what's going on now. That, against which we refuse social democracy, is that the 12-hour working time is considered normal working time. We will always vote against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the major parties are at the centre is also seen in examples in Europe and worldwide; we have heard today that the American government is being led by the arms industry. In Germany, there was even a committee of inquiry. All of this can be the basis for a parliamentary negotiation, which must be conducted in detail in the Constitutional Committee, and that can certainly be done by the newly elected government. The three points – closing the gaps that have occurred, working with the Court of Auditors’ recommendations and any indications made in the 2011 GRECO report – can then be devoted to the new legislative period of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23724	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23746	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Party promotion is such an incentive. It has already been said so much about it today. The hanger the Greens had was the major donor of the ÖVP. A question I've been asking myself for a long time towards ÖVP: Can you really rule out the fact that there has been EU funding to KTM? In all these areas, we should be very, very careful! Can you also exclude from your agricultural donors that there may have been EU funding? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Money doesn't have a mesh, you know, and I'd be a little careful about things like that, you have to be careful. [[Abg. Lopatka: Everyone has to be careful!]] This is all the more so as we now know what the “falter ” has revealed. The fact that Sebastian's acquisition was planned for a year in short is his case, which I don't care; but that he actually abused three cabinet employees for that. Public officials, staff in the ministries, are not responsible for acting party-politically. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] There you have to ask, too: Is that all right and it's clean? But you also have to ask that in the direction of SPÖ, because it was also the case that Chancellor Kern had been preparing himself for a year. If you read this, I wonder if even German Chancellor Kern at the time may have misused ÖBB's employees to make the change at the head of the SPÖ. That's exactly the things that run intrusively. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – That was a question, now you don’t need to get nervous! That was just one question, and you have to ask yourself this question if you listen to it all here. It has also confirmed to Gerhard Seiler that there has been preparations for a year; that has not been invented. He confirmed this very well in May 2016 in the “ZIB 2”. It is precisely this issue that we should bear in mind on the whole issue of party financing: Are there not employees in the ministries in which companies are partially abused? [[Abg. Rädler: This should be passed on to the “falter ”!]] Now I come to another topic, my previous speaker has not said a word about the city of Vienna: You know, especially in the city of Vienna we have the links, and there is, of course, indirect party funding. The MA 48 sets de facto for the SPÖ ads, because there is so much competition in Vienna to the MA 48! This also applies to the Vienna cemeteries. I mean, this is hidden party financing with taxpayers! This too should at last be included in all the considerations. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic and ……]] I tell you, that was one of the reasons why we did not agree to this party law: for example, because we cannot look at personal committees here, because we do not know what is going on in the back. There are precisely these problems, and we have already mentioned them at the time. It was not understandable to us at the time that the Greens went there. Today they have recognized that this law is very dim and very permeable and that it simply does not help anything. That is the problem, and that is why there is also a limit here. But now back to the Greens' request: There are certainly some demands within which we can join, but there are also points within which we are not actually comprehensible. For example, you demand the Court of Auditors' direct means of audit and inspection. I'm telling you, I think the construction with the auditors is much better. The auditors are truly independent and also committed to secrecy. With all due regard to the Court of Auditors, we should not forget that the Court of Auditors is politically occupied, which will be decided by a simple majority. That's why I think that's not the right way. I don't think it's necessary to change that. The colleague in front of me has said that the amount of the cap on the party is €10,000 something you can probably still talk about. This is not a matter at all, you can talk about it, you should also talk about it. Nor do I think it is necessary to get a party donation of over €400 000. In fact, I prefer 400 000 voters who may spend € 1 more than a single donor with € 400 000. I think that's the right way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is quite clear, and you can still scream like this: The more someone spends, the more he wants to talk in politics, that's quite logical. This has always been the case, and this is probably the case with the ÖVP, even though Mr Wöginger is a hundred times advocating it. We see, for example, how he has already argued in the field of work, how the ÖVP has already behaved. In the next legislative period, we will look closely at what the EIA will require further in the field of workers, and there will, of course, be demands from the large donors. That is simply the case, and that is why we do not want to do so, and we want to abolish this system. I also have to say something towards NEOS: You always say you want to reduce party funding. – No, quite the contrary, we need them! We finally want to get away from the party donations. The party donations are the wrong way. We do not want oligarch parties, but independent parties in the Austrian Parliament and also independent Members who are not then obliged, but who can actually exercise their free mandate. This is our way towards independent democracy, which cannot be bought by any large company or other gurus. That is the wrong way, and therefore a revision is necessary. In this form, we cannot yet accept the proposal, but it is really necessary to continue to discuss it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23828	Next speaker: Deputies Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23850	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Unprepared for colleague Belakovich replicating: Travel from the FPÖ to Russia or then from Jörg Haider to Libya and Iraq have of course nothing to do with financing and were pure for pleasure. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes, it is!]] The high level of party funding has already been mentioned several times, it is supposed to grant independence. A party donation is opposed to independence, because it is argued by the beneficiaries of the millions of heavy party funding. Now let's look at what the big parties are going to put on money like that! The Chamber of Commerce and Workers also make massively millions of political support every year. These are only €27 million a year from these two chambers, and the countries are essentially the Economic Federation or the Socialist Trade Unions' Group. This ensures that ÖVP and SPÖ are always firmly and faithfully behind compulsory membership. Of course, independence is not at risk. These millions of donations from the chambers are not a problem, but if somewhere 100 000 euros come from private treasure, that should be a problem. You can't explain that to me! In addition, the chambers advertised in the journals of parties, which was briefly torn by colleague Belakovich. Sebastian Kurzsitzt in the Federal Board of the ÖAAB, and the last edition of the ÖAAB newspaper – this official's paper is ironically called "freedom" – has been added to the work chamber with a full-page listing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] If the workers' chamber is in black sheets, it can be assumed that an adequate sum has also flown into red cash registers. It wouldn't be Austria, would it? The Court of Auditors cannot, however, examine whether the Chambers are making senseless advertisements on party financing, because the examination of advertising expenditure would be a question of expediency. In the Chambers, the Court of Auditors may only examine the economy and economy, but not the expediency. Now I ask you: How do you check the economy and efficiency if you are not allowed to look at the effectiveness? – Yes, you can get to the head, Mr Katzian, I always get my head on your speeches, not just today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Today we have learned in the news that Salzburg's mayor Heinz is now working in the Chamber of Workers, where the country's chief Gabi Burgstaller has been successfully cared for. So the Chamber of Workers is almost the AMS of the SPÖ. I am convinced that not all forced members are so excited that they have to feed politicians who have resigned for financial scandals with their forced contributions. [[Abg. Mayer: Yes, stop! That's what you're doing! You don't need that!]] We also remember that workers' chamber director Werner Muhm has been one of the main consultants of the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann. So this union of chamber and party is omnipresent, and that there is not exactly defined, which money flows where, is obvious. But before you're happy on my right: At the ÖVP it's no better hair. In Tyrol the ÖVP has the saying in the Chamber of Workers, and Erwin Zangerl, the President, is just playing and complaining in the media loud about the list setting of the ÖVP. He also has an influence on the election campaign himself, because he personally supports the candidates of the Young ÖVP Dominik Schrott in the Personencommittee. This Dominik scrap with the sensual slogan: The Oberland is scrap! , paves the Tyrolean Oberland with advertisements and advertising. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's almost as hot as...!]] There is no more Indonesian fans on Facebook than Dominik Schrott. This Dominik Schrott has placed 15 quarterly ads in district sheets in the Tyrolean Oberland alone today, and the media of course become curious. The "Tyrol daily" asked Schrott how he financed what he said to the "Tyrol daily" he wanted and could not say, but it was enough money. [[Abg. Scherak: Transparency!]] He can't and he doesn't want to say it – that's the transparency in the ÖVP that Mr Wöginger wanted to click on us earlier. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The fact that the forced members deserved independent chambers if they already had to throw their money into them against will could be considered by the Reds and the Blacks. €400 million each year go to the Chamber of Workers, €800 million each year to the Chamber of Commerce. These are preliminary organizations of these two major parties, as one can provide partygoers, there one can access advertisements, and there one can draw out party promotion. That's really unsightly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23974	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e23996	If you look at the system in the U.S., you notice: It is quite clear that the financial capital and the economy buy the policy there. That's quite normal, and that's also the reason that politics never changes there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] That means, no matter who will be president there, it will always be made the same policy, and the only ones who win are those who have paid it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] And in the United States, as in other countries, even with us, that should be the case, did not pay for this, no, those who expect something. [[Abg. Walser:... Team Stronach?]] In the United States, for example, about 1.2 billion are needed to become president – once again, once less – and this sum is provided by those who want to have something, of course. For example, those who do not believe this need only look at the Monsanto Group, who spends extensively and then places the Minister of Agriculture and implements all that he wants to implement. This does not seem to disturb anyone in the United States. This goes even a little further: Monsanto, I'm just bringing an example, isoglucose strongly preferred. Isoglucose is now being delivered to Europe after Europe has successfully resisted for many decades. Isoglucose – for everyone who does not know – is a sugar exchanger that makes sick and thick. We know that. Isoglucose has been snowing through the USA and Mexico since the 1970s. Now this substance is coming to Europe, and the only ones who like it are Monsanto and all those who deserve it. The question is why the USA wants to deliver isoglucose to Europe. This question has been clarified: because it makes a profit and because the policy there has nothing to do with profit being made at the expense of human health. The question is, however, why this is accepted in Europe, why the Commission is leaving this sugar exchanger, this isoglucose to Europe, although it is proven that people get sick and fat. From November – this is a coincidence, shortly after the election – this substance will also be approved in Europe, and you will swallow 10 to 20 kilograms of it every year. It'll make you sick, it'll make you fat, but They will not be able to prevent this because it is not declared; and if so, then no one will know what that means. There are over 21 different terms used there. Since Strasser – that's your husband, and I've been on the subject again – we know how it works: There are lobbyists who want to do business. Isoglucose is such a substance that we want to make profits with – we are talking about millions of tonnes to come to Europe. That is why the Commission has been working – since Grasser, apologies, a Freud’scher, since Strasser we know how it is – and then the law is made in such a way that this is introduced by the back door in Europe. That's the problem we have. And if many now ask what this has to do with Austria, where we have a super system, a policy that is paid by the citizen – and who pays for it – I have to say: Theoretically, the politicians have to do what the citizens want, because the citizens are just paying, and not so much. We pay for the second most in the international comparison. There is only one country in the world where the parties get more than in Austria. That is, we have a system in which the citizen pays a lot of money for getting a corresponding policy – who pays, creates! But unfortunately we perverted this good system by bringing the worst out of both systems to Austria: On the one hand, we pay most of the money, and on the other hand, we allow big capital and industry to influence. Explain the following to me by the ÖVP: If someone is willing to donate half a million or almost half a million euros, he's not expecting anything? If it really should be that one finds half a million in the pocket of money, the money grows there somehow and he wants to get rid of it, then why don't he donate it for children in Africa? This could ensure survival for more than a thousand children for a whole year. More than a thousand children could be fed with the help of this money. [[Abg. Scherak: The Stronach could have done that too!]] But no, you give the money of a political party. To do what? – To influence. That's the world's most natural. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In the U.S. one wouldn't even shake the head, because that's quite normal there, but with us in Austria that's not normal. Explain to me why you forbid an official to accept even small gifts – I am not talking about big ones. I'm not talking about half a million. Why Prohibition You're an official? - Because it is influenced by it. Or: Why does a company forbid its buyer to do so, why does the company not accept that the buyer receives money from the supplier? - Because it is influenced by it. But why do we allow politicians? Why do you do this and also the SPÖ, which with its silver stone also took donations again via detours, and then the whole thing has also taken off in transparently. That's the problem. Or if I look at NEOS with Mr. Hazelsteiner: The meaning of NEOS is to save the system of red-black once again, because if Mr Sebastian, the “Basti Fantasti”, is not as strong as one suspects, then NEOS is needed to save this system over the rounds, in order to keep the system alive as a third party. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But then the Haselsteiner pays nothing more!]] That's Mr. Hazelsteiner's idea. That's why he gives so much money for it, don't you see? That is, if we already spend so much money for the parties – and I am the first to want to reduce it, the first! – then politicians should only be obliged to the citizens and not anyone else, not any large donors or industrial businesses. That makes sense. That would be about as if I were going to take out a soft insurance, which I expect good benefits, but only get bad benefits, although it's soft. That's how it is in our system: We pay for the parties in the second most important way all over the world, and then the investors and the industrialists come and influence politics, and then again does not create the citizen, but the large industry. And then such things happen that our Federal Chancellor goes to the Commission or to the Council and allows isoglucose, although no one has anything of it. [[Rejoicing of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Drozda]] Nobody! Isoglucose is proven to be harmful to the citizens, and yet the Federal Chancellor allows this because he also depends on those who give the money – and that is the problem. The FPÖ is the only party that does not take any donations, and that is also good. [[Sadness at SPÖ and NEOS]] That is why FPÖ is the only party responsible only to the citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24097	Mr Elmar Mayer spoke on a point of order. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please repeat the facts to be corrected first! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24135	It would be a good thing to do, but that is not my job. Previously, Mr Loacker claimed that the former head of state of Salzburg had been cared for in the Chamber of Labour, where he was disposed of. I'll put it right: The head of state has suffered the consequences after an election and has returned to work. She worked there before and works there now – by the way: very successful. As a politician, we should have such respect for each other that when someone returns to his profession...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24162	The honourable Member, who corrects the matter, but does not comment, please. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the ÖVP representatives, I should like to congratulate the speaker on his report. Mayer.]] Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24195	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Was the Noll's speech written?]] When we finance our list, we get into our own pockets. When financing many other lists, the taxpayers' pockets are taken into account. [[Abg. Höbart: For years already in the municipal apartment...!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But the party financing after the election?]] The most exciting thing is where entrepreneurs pay. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Of course, entrepreneurs pursue an interest, and the Austrian People's Party should once answer what Mr Pierer's interests are. Who pays, certainly – but what is the interest, what does Pierer get from the ÖVP? We know what the ÖVP gets from Pierer, but what gets Pierer from the ÖVP, that's the exciting question. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Purchase of turquoise motorcycles!]] There is a tax programme of the top-level candidate, and this tax programme states: No profit tax, i.e. corporate tax, should be paid for profits not collected. If you calculate what that means in the case of Mr Pierer, it may well be that you come to the conclusion that he saves himself – quite, very gross estimate – 50 million € in corporate tax. So this is an investment with a short-term interest rate of 10 000 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Such financing is completely unknown in the investment sector. This is a completely new business system: Give me 500 000 €, and we'll pay 10 000 percent! This is ÖVP-new. ÖVP-old was still the savings book ÖVP, with 3 per cent, with 4 per cent, with 5 per cent, but now: 10,000 percent interest! To do this, you have to paint the business model turquoise, because no one would have believed it in black. There was no such thing as Raiffeisen, there was no such thing as the Economic and Social Committee, and there was no such thing as any of the ÖVP's preparatory organizations. Sebastian Kurz, the man for the new, had to come to see an investment in the ÖVP return by 10,000 percent. Ladies and gentlemen of all the other political groups! I would ask you not to enter into any interest-rate competition. Please don't join us! Imagine what happens when Sebastian Kurzs says: Well then we put a little bit on it!, from me 20 000 percent, even more, for one reason: This is not the money of the Austrian People's Party. This is the money of taxpayers, who here provides for short-term interest rates! That's what everyone should know: If the money takes short, then the money is the ÖVP. If there's a short amount of money, then they're taxpayers. That's the crucial difference. If I have to pay it from my own capital, then a interest rate, a disbursement of interest in the amount of 10 000 percent very, very hurt. If I pay it from the capital of citizens, from their taxes, then I say, 10,000 percent, but I do not pay a single percentage of it. First of all, this shows us: Sebastian Kurzkann. But that shows us the second thing: It is calculated at quite certain costs, at the expense of the majority of the Austrian population. That is why everything else we are discussing today, the Haselstein donations and everything else that has been discussed, is relatively small next to it. Of course, we need to discuss whether it makes sense to depend solely on the financing of a construction industrial. The Greens, my former group, have always avoided this. On the other hand, it must be said that I have never experienced any intervention by NEOS in favour of the construction industry. That was never the case. Nevertheless, I think it is very, very problematic if parties make themselves dependent on individual industrialists. It's better not to do it, and it's better to see exactly where the money comes from and where dependencies could arise. I'm asking you something last: Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP and so on, what is needed So much money? [[Call: So that we can afford you]] What it takes You these millions? So that your inconceivably beautiful top candidates are laughing at tax costs from all poster walls? Is that really so desirable? Do you really feel that the people on Austria's streets already have big poster political faces withdrawals? Faith They really get up in the morning and say: For God's sake, perhaps now, when I go to work, I see on the poster walls no short face, no core face and no straight face! How do I get to work without adding to these party posters at tax costs? But there is also a second point – and you all know that very well –: The fixed costs of the parties are constantly increasing. The party apparatus grew. It's getting more and more, it's getting more expensive. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And through splittings the revenue will suddenly be less!]] Look into your own books: There is only very little left for political work, because more and more flowes into the apparatus! And if you leave the decisions to the device, the device will always say: More money so I can grow a little more! That is exactly what happened in most parliamentary parties, and this has led to an extraordinary dependence on equipment not only on the two government parties. There is only one antidote, because party apparatus and party bureaucracies do not renew themselves and do not decompose themselves, and this means is a reduction in party funding. Simple and simple. That's the only cure and that's the right cure. That is why halving the promotion of the party is a command of the hour to revitalize democracy and to reduce the dependence on felt and bureaucratic party devices. I'm because we're really going to do this and say, we're free of it. Half less party bureaucracy from taxpayers is a good idea for all parties. After the election, let us talk in peace about whether this act of self-liberation does not bring anything to all. Many of you Members experience what it means when party officials have nothing else to do all day, but think of a party line and then consider what sanctions they impose on Members if they do not pursue the party line. And there is party funding for that! That's completely absurd. So: Stop it! Our promotion of the parties in Austria is as high as the promotion of the parties in Germany – but in absolute terms! She's down! They could be reduced even more, but the first step to recovery is to halve. Let us try it together, the citizens will certainly thank us! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24318	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24340	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I must thank you for this urgent request because I think it is really appropriate and I have asked myself a few questions in recent weeks about Mr Pierer's specific situation. Mr. Stefan Pierer, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the KTM motorcycle manufacturer, based in Mattighofen in Upper Austria and 2 931 employees, as of 2016, just donated the said €436 463 for the election campaign of the Sebastian Kurz Party, formerly known as ÖVP. At the same time, Mr Pierer, as a fan of the black and blue Upper Austrian government, has the further flexibility of working hours, also known as twelve-hour working day, as well as the fight against the overbureaucratisation of labour law. In order to make this easier, one could also simply say: KTM-Chair Pierer wishes Sebastian Kurz the rapid reduction of worker protection provisions. For me, this situation raises five questions that I would like to ask Mr Pierer from this place. First: Do your 2 931 employees agree to the amount of your salary? I therefore ask this question because this salary, which the employees generate by their daily use in the factory, enables you to donate this sum to the Sebastian Kurz party, formerly known as ÖVP, in the value of a bombastic family house. Secondly, Do your 2 931 employees agree that you, Mr Pierer, as your Chairman of the Board, are not only taking a public position, but are also involved in the election campaign with almost half a million euros and taking one-sided position? Thirdly, Do your 2 931 employees agree that those funds, the last of which were generated by their use, through the use of the employees, will then be used by you to dismantle the rights of the employees, namely, towards the reduction of workers' protection regulations, twelve-hour working day and, and, what? Fourth: Is this generous donation – and this is a central question – to the Sebastian Kurz party, formerly known as ÖVP, perhaps also seen as a contribution to the guarantee of the country of Upper Austria in 2009? In the short term, Background: The state government, then run by the ÖVP, ruled the country Upper Austria and guaranteed the amount of €33.6 million with public funds for KTM loans. [[Abg. Fekter:... jobs secured!]] Is Sebastian Kurz now paying off commissions for this guarantee? And fifth, Isn't it true that you describe yourself as a man, a person who thinks something of performance and in return? I reflect on an interview by Mr Pierer with the "Presse" of 8. September 2013, in which he claims to be very grounded as a millionaire himself, as he said, not to want to drink wine for several hundred euros per bottle. Why? - That would be pointless. Quote: ‘There must be a certain relationship between price and performance.’ Do you think it is credible for you to support the Sebastian Short Party, formerly known as ÖVP, only because of your love of neighbor? Do you really think it is understandable that the pure charity is to support it with a nearly half a million euros, or is there also a form of counterperformance? Mr Pierer, please also give us pure wine in this case in Parliament, your employees and the public! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24398	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24422	Just briefly to my previous speakers: Mr Pilz, why have you voted against halving the promotion of the party over the last four years? - That's my first question. Why didn't you prove the courage if you show yourself so close to the citizen that you collect the 2,600 signatures and don't depend on three signatures from Members? – This is once the fundamental question. If you want to serve as a detector here, explain to me why you have always voted against it in the last four years! [[Abg. Steinhauser: He was so oppressed with us!]] But you have said two points correctly: We have the second highest party promotion in the world in Japan. You have also correctly said that we have the same level of party funding as in Germany, only Germany is ten times as big; that is true. After all, the ÖVP has over €60 million through party donations et cetera and party funding with all federal states. Still, she doesn't get her throat full. That is the question we must ask ourselves! Then I have another question: Since Mr Wöginger has a lot of transparency and since you are the most transparent party, I would have liked to know from him or from Mr Blümel until tomorrow morning, who is the association for the promotion of bourgeois policy, because he maintains his homepage. [[Abg. Schieder: Homepage affair!]] This is also very important, since we really want it transparent. I would be pleased if this transparency were to be lived accordingly. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The flower is not a citizen at all!]] Gerald Loacker spoke about the preliminary organizations of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers – the classic social partners, as we call them. They disburse € 27 million and are, of course, excluded from the donation obligation. That is, they don't even have to publish, just like the ÖGB, where they donate or which institutions they promote. This has something to do with transparency, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you – and now I come to the Chamber of Commerce: Two-thirds of all sectors have lowered clubs. There is, for example, an association with the financial service providers called Clean Hands. Kick-back payments for liability insurances, which must be made by the mandatory members, flow there. For example, there is an association in transport, which is called the Fairer Transport Association. That's where money ends up, and all of a sudden these money disappears. Where do these disappear with our compulsory contributions, with the duties of the transporters? In almost all other sectors, one hears, underground clubs. Of course you can't look into the clubs, of course we don't know where the money is going, but the presumption is that this is also intrusive party promotions, because you don't have to get 60 million € and your dependency ratio has to be promoted accordingly. These are false or poisonous coupons that you distribute. Nor is it surprising that your top-level candidate spoke of the abolition of compulsory membership at an early stage and at the same time his predecessors also about a trade reform. I suspect that the supporters of the associations have worked against it and told the predecessor Mitterlehner also: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! A hundred years ago. We don't want freedom for entrepreneurs, we don't want to! That's why the presumption is close – so you hear – that these associations are thus well filled and that they all lost their club capital in the spring, so to speak, or that they have moved it. These are interesting details. As we are talking about transparency: Please tell us if you got money from it! I am not yet talking about the 41 Vice-Presidents at the Chamber of Commerce. 41 Vice-Presidents are present at the Chamber of Commerce. And you want to tell me that everything is transparent? – It can't be! Not enough for him: I think it's more than absurd – we don't even talk about money, because you're going to say: Let's not talk about money! – that the press spokesperson of Mr. Mahrer – I have today received a broadcast of the tourism sector of the Chamber of Commerce – prescribes the text for the Chamber of Commerce. Where are we going? The fact is, you don't feel yourself anymore! You're not feeling anymore! You no longer know what is evil and what belongs and what is not. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] I also have to say honestly that I did not understand that Mr. Klug said that Mrs. Burgstaller once worked there 25 years ago and she has a right of return. As an entrepreneur, I have no right of return. I have my risk to take when I stand here, and if I fail, I fail. But what right of return do we all have? - There's a dependency. You need transparency and you need compliance. At the same time – Gerald Loacker has said that – the workers' chamber is the AMS of the SPÖ. It is, and nothing else is it! I'm excited about that, and these situations upset me. You prescribe company compliance guidelines which you would never comply with and which you do not even live! I think it's finally cleaned up. They include compliance directives for Members, they include transparency directives on party promotions and the maintenance of associations, such as those of Mr Gernot Blümel. I expect your answer by tomorrow, if you are serious about transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24491	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24512	Mr President. High house! We have been discussing party promotion for two and a half hours now, and all the nebula grenades that are thrown here are essentially about very simple questions: In Austrian democracy, do we want parties that are independent of large donors? Do we want parties that can be self-confident and do not kneel when powerful lobby groups dance, or do we not want to? Do we want a system like in the United States where big capital and lobby groups influence politics and people have nothing to say in principle? – For us Greens, these questions are answered, we do not want to, we want transparency! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We're already at the ÖVP. I have a very good message today, I looked at the speaker list earlier: The ÖVP would have another 10 minutes to explain what interests the large donors of the ÖVP have. The big donors have been listed. If you donate half a million euros to a party, you want something. I'd like to know what he wants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Everything said!]] The “Press” wrote some time ago – it has been a long time ago – that the government of Schüssel-Grasser introduced the most corrupt decade in Austrian history. [[Abg. Rädler: Go, stop!]] . I'm just quoting it, colleague. I don't think you can contradict that. We are already here with the Members of the Freedom Party. Let's see what this looks like today: Who else is one of the major donors of the ÖVP? Who's funding with that? There is a certain Detlev Neudeck, former long-term FPÖ member and five years of responsibility for the party finances of FPÖ. Mr Neudeck then earned a lot of money with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, with real estate deals in Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear interests that these rulers have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In view of the fact that the ÖVP now receives highly respectable sums from eleven large real estate sharks in Austria – all of them large donors – these real estate speculators – we call them that – have an interest. I say something to you as Vorarlberger: We've got a huge problem with land hortung right now. There are very certain large entrepreneurs buying up the entire construction land, which has partly doubled in five years. This speculation must be put to an end! It is clear that parties must be independent. Whoever gets half a million euros like the ÖVP is not. We need more transparency!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24580	Mr Knes spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24605	Mr President. Mr Schellhorn claimed that the Chamber of Labour was the AMS of the SPÖ. The actual correction is: The Chamber of Labour is the only institution and parliament of workers and is democratically elected and occupied with all democratically elected groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24632	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24653	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the ministerial bench! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers in front of the TV sets! What does this noble drink – we know we have a lot of orange trees in Austria – have to do with the party discussion with the Austrian organic seal? – I’ve quoted the parties a few times in the last few days at the food discussion, and there’s the same thing: a beautiful label that promises something quite different from inside. [[put a small closed bottle of orange content in front of the speaker’s mouth]] What we are promised here is transparency and transparency and what we are talking about. Clubs are just being discussed, I say: I already have a little political experience. [[Abg. Heinzl: Well, how was the Frank?]] – Yes, I waited for it. You'll ask the Jusos and I'll start with the boy ÖVP. Then this is about the various clubs... – You have to ask the Lugar, he knows what he is doing. [[Abg. Heinzl: How was the way you collected the millions?]] – There are several associations, then we go to the senior government, then we go over the advertising rate in the daily newspapers. Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Jannach, you know that we have discussed this in the AMA marketing report, why, by chance, the election times are particularly frequently advertised – Mr. Colleague, you should take a little more care of reality and not the past! – why, then, particularly intensively advertised – that is, the consumers –: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Heinzl]] Because then I get particularly large editorial contributions for my candidates. That's the problem we have. And the chambers – I speak from experience – are party offices in front. There's one thing he wants to say – then he just didn't understand reality – but that's how it works. I can say this because the money that is too much has been raised: You can be quite clear about that once. In Upper Austria, the Party Bank per Landtagsmandat 350 000 € tax money, colleagues and colleagues – per mandate 350 000 € tax money! It is clear to me that some professional politicians are becoming very overly overconfident, because there is so good, fat-rich milk in it. If one then calculates what is done with the money – I think Mr Strolz has already said that – then, of course, the countries in the party policy are very strongly positioned. Then tell the new chancellor he'll do all this about crowdfunding, then I'll give you some thought: Where does the money of our corporations or larger companies come from when Asian companies are involved by 51 percent in the background? Who can understand? Who has insight? What interests are bought there? I have to say clearly: If you're talking great about crowdfunding and then get minimum pensioners bet letters with a cover, then that's, I think, not the new justice we're talking about. [[Keeping a document in height]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Who?]] – I mentioned it today, by a gentleman named Kurz. We have already talked today about how the pensioner with 15 € pension increase, who may have received this letter, is being treated with 2.2 percent increase especially and actually gets half of the one who receives the double pension. If this is the new justice, if these are the new political slogans... Or because the banks were addressed: If the banks do not pay interest, if the banks have exempt 7 000 employees in the last two years, if we discuss the introduction of banknote fees and then are donated to the parties, then we know the sum of them: Then it paid again the taxpayer with the money that remained with him himself. As the election programmes and slogans and posters are known to not even survive the coalition negotiations, because the first compromises are being negotiated on the election evening, we know that with tax money – whether it comes through crowdfunding or via beggars – election promises are placed, which are only suffocation anyway. Therefore, in all clarity and in all credibility: ==References== October, which is a voice for the Whites, is a voice for the people, is a voice for a new real folk movement and not for a popular movement with label-difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24732	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Parliament 2283/A(E). Steinhauser, colleagues on strict rules for party donations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:36:48]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24769	We come to the brief debate on the request made by Mrs Mag. Becher, the Building Committee for Reporting on Application 2273/A concerning a Federal Act amending the Rent Law 1981 and the Housing Property Act 2002 – Novel Law 2017 – a deadline until 10. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate in accordance with this request. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24806	Mr President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A new rental right must be here, and I would like to mention two key reasons for this: Lease seekers need a discharge, living needs to be cheaper. Based on the microcensus survey of Statistics Austria, the development of rents in relation to salaries between 2008 and 2017 has been investigated. Gross rents rose by 35.9%, median income by 22.1 percent and operating costs by 14.6 percent over the same period. These have developed along the consumer price index. The problem is, I think, clearly achievable, the problem lies with rents. The second reason is: We need a system change. The rental right distinguishes between old and new buildings by deadline. Simply put, this means that the pre-war buildings are priced, the post-war buildings are not priced. We want a better solution. For poorly preserved buildings of the 50s, 60s, 70s, maximum prices are required, and this is allowed and no one understands that. That's what only the speculators deserve. Renters should pay for services provided, but not for fixed-day schemes that were useful in the 1980s and for which there is no longer any reason today. The actual age of the plant should be depended on. A change of system is also to be made by abolishing the dictatorship of experts. Supplements and discounts are not binding and are not regulated by law. The tenants must, when their case comes to court, ultimately pay the expert's opinions. They also come to different judgments in different instances, i.e. different decisions, and that is not correct. We need a clear system. Time limits in the current form must be removed. At the time, they were introduced by the Directive Law to help students who needed an apartment in the short term. Today they are the rule rather than the exception. There must be new incentives to reduce deadlines. Yes, and how do we want to create this system change? – With this law, which is also covered by universal rental law. The following points are important: On the one hand, a uniform scope of application: The benefit of an apartment must not be based on the date of its establishment. I think 20 years of free rental corridors are a very fair offer to investors, after which all the apartments that can be rented with profit belong to a common arrangement; that is, equal conditions for all. A single land rent instead of nine different fixed-value rents in the federal states, a land rental for a modern home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Away with washing machine supplement and internet supplement: All of this is no longer contemporary. The supplements and discounts belong to the law. The tenant and the landlord must be able to create a lease in a relatively short time, which can also be held in court and enforceable. Operating costs: Today, new tenants pay for the consumption of renters. We want a day-to-day bill. In our view, capital taxes such as basic taxes and insurance have to come out of operating costs. This is a matter of course in other areas. A degressive system is to be set up for the deadlines in order to also provide an incentive for longer term periods. Unlimited contracts should actually become the rule and not – as now – almost no longer exist. I would like to address a relic from the time of Black and Blue government, namely, with regard to single and two-family houses: The current regulation very often disadvantages people who have been plagued by accident situations because, for example, if a landlord dies or so, the Treaty no longer applies. There should therefore again be a corresponding scheme. Where are we today? – I presented this request in 2014. I have talked to all the parties, and I would like to tell our coalition partner, the ÖVP – and I can't do otherwise – that these were really very long-term negotiations that have been conducted. Every day with rising rents, with rising property prices, the profits of real estate investors and real estate companies increase. These are stakeholders. Today we have also heard at the previous item on the agenda – Mr Steinhauser has said this – that a third of the ÖVP financiers will find themselves with large investors from the real estate sector. The FPÖ, the social home party, has been very close to content. I would just like to mention the liberal economic corridor, strong downturns, away from the day-to-day arrangements. I have the FPÖ's housing policy programme here, and it can be seen that very many positions are very similar. The demand for a review is partly a claim of protection, because the law is known since 2014, and everyone concerned knows it as well. Today there is a chance to confess and agree to color. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To name the chance again: Away with speculation on apartment real estates, down with an average rent of €11 per square meter at re-closure to an average in the order of approximately €7.5. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is not the case at the SPÖ headquarters!]] Whoever is still waiting now fills the pockets of the false, namely at the expense of the working population. The people seeking housing and the tenants in Austria have deserved this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24857	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. Speaking time from now on: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e24878	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Living is actually a fundamental right. This has only become inconceivably expensive – and that in many, many areas of Austria – because it has become a luxury. This affects very many people, whether young, middle old or older. - That's nothing new. We have been talking about this subject for a long time; that is, we can choose whether we continue to talk about it and get excited about it or whether we are acting so that living really becomes fundamental. We from SPÖ have decided to act. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Late, much too late!]] Mr Becher has already outlined the concept, and I would like to make three more specific points. First: Get down with the rents! There is an urgent need for a new rental right, the universal rental right, which would make rent completely transparent. [[Abg. Hauser: Why didn't the government do this, Mrs. Kucharovich? You weren't in the government?]] Now it's like this – perhaps you know the situation personally or from stories –: If you look at an apartment with a real estate agent, you will be confronted with a square meter price where you can't estimate whether the apartment is worth it or not, because the price is completely opaque. [[Abg. Hauser: Is this a self-esteem now?]] We demand a basic rental of 5,50 € per square meter with transparent supplements, which are recorded and cataloged, namely also legal, and with clearly defined deposits. So I'm a tenant, you as a tenant are not dependent on the good will of the landlord or the landlord, but you know quite clearly: Is this apartment worth the square meter price or isn't it? This ensures transparency and therefore also cheaper rents. That's one. And by the way, brokers: We can no longer understand why the fees are imposed on tenants. Get out of it! Secondly, Clearly more offers are needed to make living more affordable. They all know: Young people in particular are often longer at Hotel Mama or Papa. This is not because everyone understands themselves so well or if they do so voluntarily, but because there is simply no apartment in the area that is affordable; that means it needs more offers. Residential funding has already been the subject of: They are available, but You all know, not all federal states pick them up to really provide apartments. Vienna is an example, and all other federal states should urgently follow suit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fekter: Because of the void! Because they let the houses fall!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] But it also needs cheaper land – keyword: Dedication category of social housing. There is a clear need for cheaper land, and we will also make a request for it. You may know this because you yourself come from a tourism region – I don't: There the apartments are inconceivably expensive, and young people who are at home have no chance at all. [[Abg. Schrangl: Old Swedish!]] There would be an urgent need for a second-dwelling allowance intended for young people's living, or for an void fee for flats which are without a reason empty. [[Abg. Fekter: There is already!]] Thirdly, Young living is a special category to which, from my point of view, we need to pay special attention. There's a clear concept, 5 x 5, maybe it's known to you. 5 € per square meter for 5 years, for 18-30 years old. The difference between the square meter price takes over either the municipality or the federal state. [[Abg. Rädler:... about the communities! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! How are the municipalities to finance this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a fiction I report about here, but this model is lived in communities, for example in the city of Steyr or also in Schwaz. I think it would have to go to school all over Austria. It simply needs it, and not as unrealistic proposals, as they came from the ÖVP, for example by Mr Juraczka, who said: Well, the young people are supposed to take credit because we need more property. [[Abg. Fekter: Property can prevent poverty!]] How is this supposed to finance a loan of €250 000 – and that is a rather small amount – without perhaps facing the private bankruptcy at some point? That is unrealistic and unfair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fekter: If there is no property...!]] [[Interlocutors Gerstl and Rädler.]] In conclusion and in summary: It's quite simple, we don't want to wait any longer – that's why the deadline request. I hope you show me the flag. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Where has the FPÖ ever shown the flag?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Many of you – I look in your direction as well – repeatedly promote, we need affordable living, and that now. You can show the flag today by voting later on in the deadline request. So: Get down with the rents, with the universal rental right, with the dedication category of social housing, with second-dwelling and voiding charges! People are waiting and deserved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25070	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25092	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, watch! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say straight ahead of you: The ÖVP – and after what I have heard today, I think that it also applies to all other groups in this House – is in favour of creating a manageable living space. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: The question is only for whom!]] – The question is not for whom, Mr Klubobmann, but like. We have different entrances. Starting with universal rental law, I can say that there is a summary reason why the ÖVP opposes this universal rental right: It is anti-investment, and it does not create more apartments, but fewer apartments, it is simply less invested in residential construction. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak on his work.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's not true!]] Let us see why prices have increased in the recent past and where we have problems. We have the problem primarily in the agglomerations and in the capitals. Why? – Because, of course, and we all know, there is a strong inflow into these agglomerations. The demand for housing is constantly increasing, and we cannot meet this demand through a corresponding offer. We must therefore build more and invest more, and that is the main reason. I have already said why the ÖVP does not agree with the anti-investment universal rental law that SPÖ has presented in a proposal today. Of course, we need – and I agree with the SPÖ – a new rental right, but, as I said, one that promotes and does not prevent investment. From my point of view, the effects of renting interest rates in Austria are devastating. I've already mentioned it: It leads to a drop in investment, which means less living space instead of more living space. We also increase the unemployment rate, which has already been mentioned many times. I honestly wonder for myself – towards SPÖ – why we have more than 6,000 homes in Vienna or why the ÖBB in Austria have more than 2,000 empties. There are many reasons for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] We also see the negative effects abroad. In France, new buildings fell by 19 percent in the year of the introduction of ceilings compared to the year before. In Stockholm, well-known companies even threatened with site relocation, because the employees no longer found apartments. We also know one thing in Austria: If there are limits, then there will be black redundancies that we all, I believe, do not want. [[Abg. Kassinger: We don't want to replace black!]] [[Abg. Bernhard: That means turquoise now!]] But also in the SPÖ there seems to be disagreement on the issue of the ceilings. We all remember the proposal by the green leader Mrs Vassilakou on the introduction of a legal ceiling of € 7 per square meter in Vienna. The answer of a red chief official was that this proposal was completely oblivious, as can be read in the press. [[Abg. Schrangl: Vollhaller!]] Currently in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” there is a German rental price brake: It does not work, now it is also unconstitutional, this law harms the tenants, it is time to abolish it. The summary of this is that all manipulations in the rents do not help if there are basically too few apartments and houses. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the debate on universal rental law has not been encouraging investment in recent days. I made several calls and conducted talks with investors, and all have announced to withdraw from investments when this universal rental right comes. So it's exactly the wrong way. Therefore: If we decide on conditions for the construction of enough apartments, we will make a sustainable contribution to sustainable living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25201	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25223	Mr President. Dear Members of the House! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! There will be no one here claiming that we would not need enough manageable living space, and I believe there is no one who turns out here and does not plead to change something in the rental law. Yes, there is enough need for change. I also do not think that the opposition parties have agreed on this need for change. I have already announced 2014 – after the expert round in the Ministry of Justice has failed –: Let us take this to Parliament, let us make an assessment, let us make an expert hearing! This 100 percent package of SPÖ is simply not supportive, it is not agreed, it has not been carefully reviewed, the stakeholders have not yet said their opinion. [[Abg. Kucharovich: Sorry,...!]] We have not yet obtained the opinion of the owners' representatives, nor have we received the representatives of the tenants' representatives, and this surprises me. It's also a little unforgivable, because For example, they do not say at all how you want to help over 300,000 people who have been concerned with a precautionary home, in a firm faith to be able to improve their pension gap, once they have the failure when they come to the pension from working life. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That was a mistake anyway!]] They have been promised: Make a third pillar, buy a pension apartment, so you can improve your pension! – I completely miss it. Now before the election something should be decided quickly, not all have taken something. I am right, Mr Becher, that we have met twice, and we have also discussed a few measures. You're right, we got closer to a few things because we say it needs change, we have to put a new rental right on our legs. This 100 percent SPÖ package is not. I still wonder: We also discussed there to abolish the rental contract fee. I have already said this today, the rental contract fee is an antique fee from the time of Maria Theresias, which, for the fact that the financial officials have written the contract, has almost been lifted a fee. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That was the paper tax!]] This is long over, no longer in relation to the state's performance, and the abolition of the rental contract fee is a measure that would put a little pressure out of the pressure stove of high housing costs very quickly, namely for those who conclude a new lease date. There are two flies that we hit there with a flap: Firstly, new tenants have to pay less, and secondly, the landlord has less administrative burden. That means it's all helped. This is a measure that we can implement quickly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are happy to talk about everything else after a detailed review, after detailed consideration of the consequences of these or other measures in the rental law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25294	Ladies and gentlemen! My computer here just gave up the spirit. I can't control the microphones or the time taken. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The session is closed!]] That is why I am interrupting the meeting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25329	I'll start the interrupted session again. The system works again. Next speaker: Mr Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25360	On the premiere day, such a small pan may be. Otherwise you have to say: From my point of view, everything works perfectly. Also a great praise to the employees who have made it possible for us to hold this first meeting here in a pleasant setting. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has become active, we are pleased, but from our point of view a trail too late, and it has thus opened the way for the FPÖ. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am not surprised that the FPÖ is not going along: the little people in the word, the big money bags then in the representation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] But you have made it really easy for her, because there have been two times when you should have put the rental right on the agenda. The first time in January, Coalition Pact New – there was no subject for rent. There it could have been pointed out: Is the ÖVP to have or is it not to have for it? - It's been missed. The second date would have been in May. Sebastian Briefly announces the coalition, a coalition-free space begins. The SPÖ has opted for the path of coalition discipline without coalition and has failed to discuss the rental right with FPÖ in negotiations on summer. Then you could have felt the FPÖ on the tooth and checked if it really went with you. Now, of course, it is scarce, and now the FPÖ has a simple excuse for not being able or willing to go along. [[Abg. Schrangl: This is not an excuse! I said from the beginning...!]] It's not easy for you. The fact is, I didn't expect it any different, but I would have been interested in whether this would have been possible with the FPÖ if one had started it all in May. [[Abg. Schrangl: If something had come, yes!]] Unfortunately, this has been missed by a wrong timetable. I think one could have done some small measure, but obviously there is not even the one. There are two reasons why there is pressure to act: One reason is when you look at Sebastian Kurz's donor list: If the ÖVP remains in the government – unfortunately the surveys suggest it – then it will pay their tribute to these donors. Then, unfortunately, we will have to cut off the rental right. The second reason is the conditions. I think everyone who deals objectively with this issue sees that it can't go further that the rents rise faster than the wages. It is therefore clear that this cannot be the case in the long run. We know what high rents mean: Loss of quality of life, delogging, ghetto formation, loss of purchasing power. All these are things that threaten our quality of life. One thing has to be clear: As a responsible politician, we do not want any conditions such as in London, Paris or Munich, where an average middle class family no longer has to try to find an apartment nearby because such apartments are simply not manageable. The consequences extend to social housing: If the rents rise, the floor prices rise. If land prices rise, then the public hand has problems with social housing because the land and construction costs are too high. Also the much loved apartment becomes increasingly expensive: only 40 percent increase in the properties. If the rental prices rise, investors will of course go into ownership, and if the investors go into ownership, they will be in competition with those families or individuals who want to buy dwellings. That means the reduction of rents is about and up. I would now like to address a few of the arguments that Mr Singer has put in, because I believe that there is no way to go beyond rent rates. He said the first is that there will be an investment stop. – This is wrong, because with all models – starting from those of SPÖ – there is a corridor of about 20 years for amortization, with us it is even a trail longer. Anyone who invests in housing can once invest this money between 20 and 25 years and then get it amortized. That means it's just wrong not to invest. It even offers the opportunity to create property. Only: After that – and that is crucial! – there has to be a basic consensus, and this basic consensus means: living on the one hand, with the tenants, and maintaining with very conservative interest among the landlords. The miracle bag that everyone deserves well and that the others pay little, there is no. There you have to decide, and therefore, I believe, the model is that if you invest, you deserve it once, but afterwards you are involved in this social consensus, the right way. That is exactly the idea of renting interest rates and exceptions for the period that determines the amortisation period. The empty level, the speculation: Emptyness only makes sense if one speculates that sometime the prices rise again. However, if you have a rental right, which regulates universally and does not allow speculation, because nothing changes at the rent rate limit, you also make no sense, because speculation does not make sense in this case. And everyone who has a property must receive this property. If I have to obtain a property and the basic consensus of sustainability is also respected in the event of conservative interest, then the void does not make sense. You have to put up the money to get this property. That only makes sense if I have so much money that I don't depend on taking the property. As a rule – and I assume that – this will not be the case, and those who believe that they have to proceed so high- Speculatively will then be reached with an void charge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] There is no way past the clear definition of surcharges and discounts. There's no way through renting interest-rate borders. This is the only way to live in a durable way – and now the essential point comes to the ÖVP – combined with new construction, and I'm right for colleagues Singer. If there's too little, you can do anything that's right, but it's going to stay macular. It needs a combination – and here I am with you – of new construction plus clear rent rates and a regulation in rental law, which also creates clarity and transparency. That's the key. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] That's just saying new construction – it won't work! We need both, and that is why the deadline request is justified. We will agree. It's a shame that you didn't do this test for the FPÖ, how seriously she did it with the little man, with the little woman, with the little people, in May, because then we would have known. [[Abg. Schimanek: Come on!]] Now she'll talk out on the schedule – too bad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25462	Mr Mag. Loacker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25483	Mr President. High house! Yes, with this universal rental law, the SPÖ has happened a thematic error, for the following reason: If you look at the market share in Austria, how many community-owned dwellings, how much supported housing there is and how many rental conditions are in private housing, then it is noted that in six of nine federal states, the public sector, i.e. municipal and funded housing, has the market majority; in Vienna, this is about 60 percent market share on the rental market. The problem is, however, that in Vienna 50 percent of those at risk of poverty are in private rental and not in one with the city of Vienna or in one of their beautiful red cooperatives. That means that what you invest in money in the public housing area does not reach its goal. With 60 percent market share, you will not be able to solve the social issue. The tax money you're taking is most miserablely invested. And what is your logical consequence? – They say: Well, if I don't make it with 60 percent market share, then the 40 percent private will have to pay now! – You just lost your mind, because that's not how it works. You have to pay the municipal apartments more safely, and you have to make the social housing more comfortable, which you do not create. If you look at what causes the costs, you often get the operating costs. In this respect too, Vienna is a very bad example. The city of Vienna registers with the cost of water and so on, more than would be necessary. [[Abg. Schieder: Is still cheaper than in other cities! And better than that!]] And by Wiener Wohnen are 25 percent higher the operating costs than the private owners. It is true that if you depend on the city of Vienna, you are actually the stupid one, except you have been accommodated cheaply like Mr Mister Pilz. He may have caught this very well; therefore he is there for so long. Whatever you don't see is that with a rental rate limit of €5.50 you will experience a permanent decay of the building substance, and then there are no more beautiful city center buildings. You can already experience this with the indicative buildings that the investments in the maintenance and renewal of such beautiful buildings are often not expected for the landlord and one prefers to let them fall. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true at all! I think you're too often in Vienna!]] What you're doing: You have created a rental needle with your guide system. Today we have rich people in the most wonderful apartments, who can live there at a spot price and for whom it would not even pay off to look for a smaller apartment. If a noble widow lives in a 100 square meter apartment, it is cheaper for her to stay there than to move to a 60 square meter apartment because she would have to enter a new rental contract that would be more expensive than that for the 100 square meters in the old building; and thus resources are poorly exploited. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Because the small apartment is more expensive because the rents have risen!]] I know that's an economic idea and on the left hand it's hard to understand, but I'm strict enough to explain it slowly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] Whatever you do with your universal rental right is to intervene in the pension scheme of many people, because in recent years, in which the money has lost in value and in which the times and prospects have become increasingly uncertain, many people have acquired pension apartments in which they have invested, so that they will have rental income at their age. And in this age pension you, colleague Becher, intervene with your proposal and withdraw those people who have invested there and calculate such an apartment often at 25 or 30 years, with your 20-year-old age the pension provision. This is an intervention into property, I believe that it would not be legally held in this form at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I would like to reveal another mistake with these statutory supplements and supplements: Every balcony is not the same. First of all, not every tenant places a lot of value on a balcony, and it is a difference whether I have a balcony to a dense road or to the green. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] And what you want is a law in which everything is small. You cannot regulate life so detailedly because it is different because you, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, have very different claims to your apartment than I do to my, and you would add a special value to an element that I may not care about and for which I am not willing to pay. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I hope! I hope!]] This individuality of people wants you to room in a law, and that is not possible. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] People are different, the wishes are different and the ideas of living are different. You can't roll that with a law. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] The only thing I'm right with is the rental contract fee: She's gone! And as a sad detail, I would like to mention: I asked the Minister of Finance in a written request how much the Republic of Austria takes from the remuneration of rental contracts for dwellings, and the written answer is: We don't know that because all this is recorded under legal fees! – This is a poverty certificate for the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25612	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Becher, colleagues, the Building Committee on Reporting on the application 2273/A concerning a federal law amending the Rent Law 1981 and the Housing Property Act 2002 – Residential Law 2017 – a deadline until 10. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. [[Call the SPÖ:Are you sure? Count!]] The application is rejected. [[19:14:28]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25650	I will resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. I call Mr Pendl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25674	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the gallery! High house! I believe that an actual 15-year discussion with a second investigative committee will be ended formally today. I would like to thank the chairman of this committee – and I do not see him now – for the presidency, the second President, very much. [[Abg. Head enters the meeting room.]] - There he is. I also thanked the committee yesterday, but it is, I believe, not just a matter of course, it was good work, and that was also mentioned by everyone. I thank you for that. I would also like to thank the trial judge and all the staff – from the management of the Parliament to the clubs; I spoke yesterday following the committee meeting: the good spirits in the background – yesterday. I would also like to thank the political groups very much. As the Court of First Instance has pointed out, it was very factual, he has even said that high-quality discussions and consultation rounds. I can share this opinion. I think it is important that the new legal situation has enabled the political groups to work together with this new procedure and these procedures. A new quality was also the fact that a committee without blacks – who knows the story knows how to appreciate it – started with the Ministry of Defence, but also all the others have worked very hard on the issue of file delivery. That is why, I think, this was a very relevant, efficient work. Of course, it is so – and this has to be noted – that when you set up a committee of inquiry, with the issues we all know, and you know that there are elections, you actually make everyone easy. We have experienced, for some of the people we have invited, especially those involved in Airbus and EADS, that they have not come for the most diverse reasons. What they're telling the Republic or the Ministry of Defense about the media is quite simple, with confidence, a joke. They would all have been able to cooperate and clarify it – not one of them has come. I believe that in the future, if you set up such a committee, it must be considered that it is clear that you do not already have time limits from home, because you do not do yourself well if you already know what new elections mean and then the deadlines are running. I believe – and Mr Kogler has said this right this morning – that the whole discussion, during which everyone involved in the comparison, would not have existed if the original contracts had not been made in this form. However, we did not come on this issue, for example, due to the period of time and time. Leave However, I should like to make a few points. Yesterday we took note of the report unanimously in the Committee, so I am a little surprised that I am listening to counter-positions here today. However, I would like to say that it is clear that the political groups have different views and also different demands. One thing I would like to say: The Republic and all of us would be easier if there were to be a uniform contract design – for all departments of the public administration as a whole – because then we would also be saving ourselves the discussions, but above all we would have a chance that both the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court would develop a Judicatur. Then we would do much easier with all the awards and contracts, and we would save ourselves the discussions. So there is a high level of legal certainty. I believe that in these procurement procedures, one thing can be avoided at all, because we all know, every professional knows what companies there are who can do this: We don't need any lobbyists at all. What are you doing? That is also, I believe, an awareness from this committee. The counter-businesses, as we have discussed them, from none to 200, that's a very wide range. I think that when it comes to such delicate business, it is quite possible to take away from this distance. I would like to make one point: All the discussions we know from the media that EADS is said to have celebrated – I emphasize – the conclusion of its contracts, would not exist if we had a regulatory for the entire public administration in terms of contract design. This is important to me. Mr Rosenkranz rightly pointed out yesterday – we have known the problem for a very long time – that we always have the field of tension: Where are criminal proceedings going? To what extent are there bilateral and multinational agreements with other countries? It is very difficult to run parallel to a criminal investigation committee, because we are neither court nor prosecutor, we all know that. It's always about what courts or prosecutors can contribute, without one having to hinder one another or blocking the work. I was in several committees of inquiry, and I think it was all aware, even because of the new legal situation, that the work in this committee of inquiry is an important task in terms of content and subject matter. Finally, I would like to thank everyone again. In addition to the legislation, Parliament has the task of fulfilling parliamentary control, which is very, very important. I do not know how far there will be research committees in the future. Many have said that it will continue to work on this issue in the next GP. I am not a prophet, and I do not play, but it has been said to the present organization, the new Rules of Procedure, to the agreed measures we have taken together, also to the time questions and the survey techniques, in the end, to all the political groups, that is all right and that works. I would also like to thank you very much for this. Perhaps we can take the necessary action in the future with the result, not with regard to the Eurofighters in particular, but rather with the work of the Committee of Inquiry, in a positive way, because I believe that Parliament, Parliamentaryism and, finally, the Republic and the Austrians are simply doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25757	Mr Bernhard. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25778	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would also like to say a short word of thanks to President Head of the Committee, who has led the Committee very well, and to all the group leaders who have actually made very good cooperation possible. We have made progress in the investigation committee within the meaning of the Republic. But I have to say that this is exactly where the joint also ends again. We are now talking a lot about the structure and how well the Committee has worked, but I would say that the citizens require that we work well. I mean, that's more about the content, and I want to remind you again: There were four specific questions, exactly two have been addressed. The first question was the so-called Darabos comparison, namely the clarification of political responsibility and possible misbehaviour in the administration in this comparison. We were able to work on this area completely. In the second area, namely the question of counter-businesses and illegal payment flows in connection with these counter-actions, we were essentially only able to scratch on the surface. I would first like to address the first question, namely the question of political responsibility or also errors in the ministry in the so-called Darabos comparison. To the history: The Republic has committed itself first to the purchase of 24 interceptors and then due to the flood of 2002 only for the purchase of 18. And Gusenbauer – which was an essential story – has documented wide-ranging “social fighters instead of Eurofighter” in the 2006 National Council election campaign. The Social Democrats have won, and Darabos has been commissioned to leave the treaty, which he obviously did not succeed. What he did, however, was that he first ignored the Court of Auditors' reports, that he then switched off the financial procuratorship that he originally switched on, at the request of EADS/Eurofighter, that he had not brought any experts and no expert from the defence department to the comparative negotiations, although he was offered several times. He did not have an answer to the question of how the calculation of the comparison is compiled – in concrete terms, it amounted to € 57 million. He said he was a politician and didn't have to deal with figures so specifically. And there is no documentation on the comparative negotiations, because no one was present except for external consultant Professor Koziol. That means we don't know what Darabos did. But what we know about what Darabos has done is that he has violated existing law, specifically against the Federal Budget Act. This means that, if one conducts such comparative negotiations, one has to deal with the financial situation. In fact, the ministry is also in agreement. Darabos could not even present written documents to Molterer. He presented orally at 8.30 a.m., which would be his idea for a comparison. Molterer rejected this and said he would like written documents; he did not get them. There was then the first comparative agreement signature in the Gartenhotel Altmannsdorf. The problem is, if the highest federal body, a minister, puts its signature under a contract, then it applies, the Republic is obliged to do so. Even if it's a big mistake in the inner relationship – with engagement – it's such that Darabos has cost us a lot of money outside. We have older aircraft, we have three planes less than planned, and we have – and this is very essential – a general ban on termination, which Darabos signed, on an A4 lubrication bill – and that for 250 million € savings; Darabos says it was €370 million. That is, a minister violates existing law, and our federal budget law does not provide any consequences for it. It provides consequences for officials and contract staff, but not for the highest federal body. I will address the solution proposals later on, how to do this better. So the result of the question of one, the political responsibility of Darabos, who is still angry, now in Burgenland: Darabos has actually violated existing law in the EADS/Eurofighter comparison, has disregarded his own ministry and his competences. If he were officials and not ministers, he should have expected consequences. This means that there is a full political failure. Social democracy has seen this a little different from me. The second point concerns the Ministries. We can now say relatively little to the Ministry of Defence because the competences have not been met. One could say that one should have insisted more on documenting, but of course we also know the Hierarchy chain, especially in a ministry in which hierarchy counts even more than elsewhere. That's where Darabos was sitting on the longer branch. It was more exciting at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which was responsible for the counter-businesses, where we lost two out of three employees again in different actions – time-consuming. The first employee of this respective department for counter-businesses, an employee named Franz – let's leave the last name – was well-friended with an EADS manager, exactly from the time it was about counter-businesses, with a Frenchman who sent our negotiating positions, the negotiating positions of the Republic of Austria, by email. The e-mails were available to the Examining Committee, and they said something like this: Dear Franziska! At our negotiating position. Zwinker-Smiley: I never sent the e-mail. Your Franzi. – This is the communication from the Ministry, the Republic, towards a arms group! Now the question is: What happened, what consequences did this have? – He's been moved. A termination was apparently not inside, he now works in the law department of the ministry. Another employee – even better, years later – got into a phone surveillance, where it came out that armed lobbyists called him with whom he could no longer have telephoned, because there was a contact barrier. In this phone call, the second employee of the department, who actually checked the counter-businesses, said the so-called law firm of lobbyists: Don't worry, the 100 million are hidden, you won't find it unless you know where to look for it! – This is very trustworthy. Man It must be remembered that these are people we pay in our Republic. – So much just to the Ministry of Economic Affairs so you can see how it is going to happen there. The third question was: Is there any illegal payment flows? – We know that EADS/Eurofighter has provided EUR 183.4 million for, we say, motivation money where you go and clearly say that the money has to be used to make the right decision for the Republic of Austria, first when buying and later when comparing it. We know from the prosecutor's office in Munich that more than €90 million could not be traced back. That is, those who have received the money cannot prove what they have spent it for. So 90 million of € 183 million have disappeared somewhere. It must be assumed that there is a corresponding charge for unfaithfulness, for if so much money is gone and you can't explain where it came from, then there's something in the bush. But what exactly did this look like? – For example, it was the case that a company of its own was set up in Vienna, which would have served the counter-businesses in Vienna, the so-called EBD, in which several well-known lobbyists were involved. There money was regularly parked and distributed. We had information on the Committee of Inquiry, which was about the removals in the millions area and which we asked what this money was spent on. The saloppe answer of an information person was: I do not even know what I spent the money for last week. – So: There is no documentation, there is no proof of performance. This story is very widespread – this is very important, and others will be able to do it later – because there has been a huge network of letterbox companies. That is to say, these 183 million euros did not go directly to Austria, but they went to Austria, to Liechtenstein, to the various British tax havens, to Cyprus, to Luxembourg, and then they landed in Vienna via detours. And we ask ourselves, because there have been many very different ways where the money has landed. One must clearly say that the new election has interrupted the clarification of these questions. In any case, we want to continue them in the next legislative period, because here there is fire on the roof and because we also need to clarify political responsibility in terms of how we can cut our laws in the future so that such a thing can happen less easily in the future. By the way, people with lobbying were named with very clever codes: a Dr. Jörg Laider, a Mister Martin Wartenstein, a Dr. W. Lüssel and also a Dr. Karl-Heinz Lasser. It is now possible to consider which political groups they may have heard of and whether they want to put anything under them; these are the ones that appear in the protocols. From my point of view, what we need to do immediately – and this is very important – is: We must take the first measures, we are facing the next purchases, we must now act as the Republic. We know enough about what went wrong, and there are so many cleaners! I could stand here and talk for five hours without considering the examples of the three large groups here in the House. First of all, we need to strengthen the economic and corruption prosecutorship. If you look at how this was with the Hypo Alpe-Adria and now also with EADS/Eurofighter, it is quite clear: There is too little expertise and capacity. The Men... It is not enough capacity to answer everything. The second is: We need a genuine freedom of guidance from the state attorney's office. We have the problem that the court has not submitted all the documents, there was a section head who has blocked, and the committee has repeatedly asked to be able to speak to the investigating prosecutor, which we were forbidden. We wish for stricter penalties for bribery and bribery and a public hearing for ministerial candidates, because we believe that some people who are so badly in office would no longer dare to go to Parliament and the National Council and that in the future parties would have better, more appropriate ministers and ministers in their offices. And, of course, we want a cooling-off phase for government members at the federal level; for example, one of the ministers who then laid down his office was signed directly thereafter by EADS for €440 000 cash. These are very clearly our demands, and I now want to make three motions for resolutions so that we can see whether the wishes for transparency expressed yesterday at the press conference by all the political groups follow up today. I come to the first request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let's not make the same mistakes in the future as in the past! In addition, the following application: Resolution by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues in relation to non-profit-making state attorney The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, according to which a non-profit-making state attorney In addition to the Federal Minister for Justice, it is at the head of the public prosecutor's chain of instructions.' Transparency also begins with independence. And thirdly, Resolution by Mr Michael Bernhard, Members of Parliament, on: Strengthening economic and corruption The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Justice, is invited to set up a pool of external experts for the recovery of StA in economic and corruption matters, as well as economic and corruption prosecutors, so as to ensure the impact of the prosecutors on the fight against (international) economic crime and corruption in order to create a level playing field between the state and any economic and corruption crime. The experts shall be assessed from an independent Commission on their professional qualifications and shall confirm their impartiality in writing in the course of their activation in the course of an investigation. The acquisition of an expert in the specific investigation procedure is provided by the StA or the StA. WKSTA to be publicly and transparently justified.’ (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We only answered one and a half of four questions. What we know is that we put in a huge swamp, from 2002 to at least 2007. We know that our laws are clearly too sharp in many areas, and we can't wait long to find out here in the final. I would ask you to support these requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e25972	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26203	Mrs Tamandel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26224	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to predict that the Austrian People's Party, the new People's Party, is committed to airspace surveillance. I believe that in all the speeches that come to the Committee of Inquiry, at least this should be held, because in today's times when we are threatened by terrorism and so on, it should be obvious that we are committed to airspace surveillance, and I believe that we should not make experiments. To the committee of inquiry itself: During the 2006 government negotiations, it has always been said by the various Members of Parliament, for example, by colleagues Pilz, but also by other Members, that would have been the coalition condition and Wolfgang Schüssel would have put such a pressure on the SPÖ. – Just funny that Gusenbauer, who then became Federal Chancellor, said: Whoever knows me knows it's not going to happen! These were all such suspicions that came at the beginning of the Committee of Inquiry, which were not confirmed or could not be confirmed. Soon after the election, the new Minister of Defense, because he had just given up an election promise, was of course associated with Eurofighter GmbH and in my opinion made a decisive mistake: He believed that if he turned off his own department, stopped his military experts, stopped his business experts from the resort, eliminated the financial sector, the financial attorney, the President Peschorn, who had obviously already become a bit unpleasant in this matter, and the Eurofighter GmbH bowed down, he managed to conduct good and playful negotiations. Unfortunately, these secret negotiations – these negotiations in the silent chamber – have led us to a comparison that has caused serious damage to the Republic, namely, both budgetary and military damage. This is clear from the fact that we have less on three planes that we have second-hand pilots from an old series, where there is no possibility of upgrading at all, considering that the unit price of these used and old-fashioned aircraft per aircraft is higher than that of the previously ordered state-of-the-art aircraft, and considering that we have no bad weather and no night vision devices, which Mr Doskozil today criticised and what he meant: That's crazy, they're scumbags! – Yes, but the scrap flyers have only been available since the comparison, because the original contract has announced the delivery of state-of-the-art, further developing aircraft. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if there is not even a written presentation at a Council of Ministers meeting, and Vice-Cancellor Molterer therefore says: The ÖVP cannot agree, because we have nothing written in our hands!, then I say: In the future, we must look at the fact that no minister is entering into a contract with the first of these budgetary implications, in which the Ministry of Finance is not involved, even though it is necessary under budgetary law – as it stands in the financial constitution – to eliminate the financial procuratorship and to use an external expert, whom we still do not know today whether he has ever had a negotiating experience. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have to say that honestly. – That must not happen in the future! Now I'm coming to the counter-businesses. I would just like to say, just as I have put forward the commitment to airspace monitoring at the beginning of my remarks: Counter-acts are basically nothing bad. The Austrian economy and the Austrian economic location benefit from counter-businesses, and this is not at all exceptional even in the case of military purchases. But if the contractual partner with this 200 percent, i.e. with these €400 billion, is overwhelmed in counter-business volume and tries to somehow fix a lot of counter-acts by painting, but on the other hand, Austrian companies distance themselves from it and say: No, this business wasn't a counter-business, I would have done that too!, then you have to say: There's still air up there, and you can do even better in the future. But one thing is also said – I missed it; Mr. Bernhard was in the process, he has now criticized this, and I quite agree with his criticism –: Some hundred million euros have not been recognised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs because the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been very closely examined at this stage. That is what we should say in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] The fact that there were black sheep among the employees is something else. That's condemned, that's not a question at all. But the Ministry of Economic Affairs has Nevertheless, several hundred million euros in counter-businesses are not recognised, because it was thought that these counter-businesses are not waterproof and they are absolutely no counter-businesses. Finally, I would like to say that this form of the Committee of Inquiry, with the new Rules of Procedure, works very well. Each group knows how big the responsibility is and that there are no more political showacts. There may be one or the other, but one thing you have to say: We've got a lot of confirmation, but we haven't heard much new, and we haven't found the Smoking Gun either. That means that I would think well of setting up a committee of inquiry after the National Council elections unless new facts arise.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26299	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26321	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spectators! The role of a committee of inquiry is, in principle, to clarify political responsibility and, on the other hand, to find and recommend measures that prevent such a thing from ever happening again. This includes, Mrs Tamandl, from our point of view, the prohibition of counter-businesses. Counter-businesses are the inventor for corruption, not only do we see that, but all corruption experts also see it that way. We have received many examples of this in this committee, and so this is also one of our recommendations in the Green Group Report, which is here today. Our task as a Member of this House is to ensure that something like this cannot happen. On the one hand, we owe it to the citizens who have elected us to this Parliament and who will vote again in a few weeks – hopefully! [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we also owe it to ourselves, because the dominant political stareness – which is real – is naturally fed if we MEPs do not force transparency from politics, but rather try to cover and hide. As a result, our recommendations in the Greens' report are far more far-reaching than those in the Court's report, which is also the reason why we will not vote in favour of this report now. We believe that what we have discovered, what we have been able to explain, what we have been able to discuss in this committee of inquiry, is far more far-reaching than these four recommendations that the Court of Appeal has proposed. What exactly is it about the three recommendations that I have now taken out of the ten that we have in our report? This is the basic question: How do you fight corruption? – An important, central point in this is transparency and the possibility for citizens, but also for the administration, for officials who are attentive, to follow what is happening. And here we have the problem that we have laws that are far too dizzy. We had a discussion about party financing earlier. The party law is very dim and does not fulfill its purpose. There is another law: the lobbying and representation transparency law, which was discussed and adopted during the same period, i.e. 2013. Similar to party financing, there is also the finding that this law, as it is now formulated, can never meet the original claim. There are many exceptions in this, there are circumvention possibilities, and there are restrictions on transparency, and we need to eliminate them, because the citizens have a right to know who has lobbyed in what political and administrative decisions, and that is timely and electronically. Then you can gain much earlier insight into who pursues what interests in a procedure, and also prevent corruption. - That's the first point. The second point concerns the question of transparency: freedom of information and the secret of office. What would have been different would we have a right to information instead of official secrecy, that is, the way we want it to be that citizens have the right to receive information? What would have been different in this committee of inquiry or in the very long period of time in which the Eurofighter discussion accompanied us? – We would not have received many files blackened, and the citizens could have read and intervened at a much earlier time. As you know, we have ten different laws governing information transfer and official secrecy. We have extensive exceptions, we have extremely long deadlines, and de facto there is no legal protection at all if an authority refuses to provide information. This means that, after an extremely long waiting period at the end, next to the information, it was legal or not legitimate to still not receive the information you wanted. The last point relates again to transparency: the Court of Auditors' committees. We consult the Court of Auditors' committees on the reports prepared by the Court of Auditors on information subjects, but these committees are not public. That is, interested citizens, interested officials cannot follow what is said by their superiors or whoever is said in the committees on the reports and how people comment. Also, if the Committee had been open to the public, it would have been possible, at a very earlier stage, to obtain relevant information and information on the corruption events in this whole complex and thus to avoid damage from the Republic and taxpayers and to prevent this whole disaster with the interceptors. All these points are therefore about the role of citizens as a public watchdog, which politicians must be very important to us, and I advocate that we address these points after the election – before the election no longer ends – as soon as possible, also in the sense of building trust, a strengthening of confidence in the population. I believe that this is basically necessary and desired by all parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, on the requests submitted by the NEOS with regard to the strengthening of the Prosecution of Corruption and the freedom of guidance of the State Procuratorate: Of course, we Greens are also in favour of this. These are long-standing green demands, which in turn are the content of the recommendations in our report on the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. Where we are not going to go, this is the story with the Eurofighter succession, because we believe that there is no need for a interception hunter; as a result, this request is void for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26412	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we have a defect in the light at the speaker's desk. It shines, but there is no permanent light; that is, when the light begins to flash, you still have 1 minute, but it will keep blinking until the speech is actually finished. [[Abg. Kogler: 1 minute or 2 minutes?]] – 1 minute before. I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26444	Mr President. High house! Let me start with the following words: We have just heard from the Greens, there is no commitment from them to the defence of airspace. That is, please note, because one thing you will not believe by the Greens, namely that we can protect and defend the air in Austria with paper flyers, balloons or otherwise! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You may be able to lease the surveillance aircraft or buy them somewhere else, for example at NATO, in Switzerland or anywhere else, but that's not our concept. Therefore, one also: No matter what aircraft, which interceptors, which military equipment we buy and make a procurement process for it, the Greens will always say: We don't need that, we don't want it, that's what corruption is behind it! It cannot be different, because in the eyes of the Greens, the arms industry is already something bad. This statement must be put to the fore once. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the Austrians are to know relatively shortly before a election which parliamentary parties stand for comprehensive national defence in Austria and which parties do not do so. Now to the Examining Committee: There's a lot of suspicions, it smells, yes, I almost want to say, it smells like there's been corruption. There are the best bills for consultants and lobbyists, records of time and place where the lobbyist met with a Mr. Lüssel, with Mr. Laider and so on. But this turned out to be a forgery where a few people applied thickly and were paid high fees for it. But the question is justified: Why does a company invest in such lobbyists if it only gets false papers? This is exactly the same question as the: Why does anyone invest in a political party before an election? – Because you want some benefit – that’s obvious! Only: That could not be examined by this committee of inquiry. Why? – Because there are now public prosecutor's investigations, not only in Vienna – I actually do not expect the most things – but also in Munich and Italy, in particular, at the public prosecutor's offices there. We could not see these documents because we did not want to hinder justice or hinder justice. As a result, political responsibilities have been clarified. And the first one has already been addressed: What sad role did the then Federal Minister Darabos play? Let us now consider the Treaty in its assessment: He was good, he was bad, he was right, he was unimportant!, whatever, put down. It has also been examined in the first Eurofighter investigation committee. But after that, what has been put in place as cream dolls mocks every description, namely: Minister Darabos said that at least the slogan “Social Fighter instead of Eurofighter” is a little bit, obviously with the statement: Yes, I managed to save the state €200 million! – It wasn’t quite €200 million, but there was a short-term effect anyway. But what he has inverted on the State with this comparison on negative economic consequences has now also been noted by others. This was followed by the following conclusions from the financial sector: All at once, € 134 million was missing in his bill. The Court of Auditors has also noted this. And this has already been noted by the prosecutor's office, which has said that it is obvious that an economic damage has occurred. Only: Minister Darabos has missed the intention of knowledge for a conduct that is criminally worthy. I would like to stress this: He really didn't know what he was doing, because so badly prepared to go in, let himself be pulled over the table like that, that's legendary, that's a legend for himself. But this is clearly a matter of political responsibility! And that's what we've seen for the first time. But also to those citizens who may believe that what is happening in the Committee of Inquiry does not bring anything at all, a small remark on the verge: I have read in some posts, the Members who have been sitting in there would have deserved a golden nose again with the money from the sittings. I also read this in the so-called posts of the quality newspapers. To do this, I have to say: There are no extra sausages or anything else that belongs to the ordinary service of the honourable Member! So I really don't want to get to read such a thing from reasonablely gifted beings anymore, because it's simply and grippingly wrong. Now continue to Darabos: What did he explain? – Darabos has become perceptible to the public, he has acted in front of the press and said: I have commissioned an opinion, this opinion is now before me, and after that I will decide! He has simply said the untruth. He had already signed this comparison and made it firm days before, and had already concluded a pre-contract in the Altmannsdorf paper a month before, and the whole thing was done, as has already been said, by having committed a clear breach of law, because it should have been the financial unit and he would have had to cooperate with the officials in the department, the so-called experts who worked there, and the lawyer of the Republic, the financial procurator. It's actually inconceivable: There are experts in the ministry and the financial procuratorship who have already worked and said on Airbus: So, we got them at the Krawattl now, but what's the minister doing? – He simply leaves the tie and says: Let's go to Paris to the Airshow! There at once comes Director General Aloysius Rauen and says: Mr Minister, we two alpha-animals, what do we need for these sub-alternative officials, the financial procuratorship and whatever, we two men make up this among us! And all at once, Mr. Darabos' breasts, he's breathing the air of the great wide world in Paris. Maybe there was even a bottle of good Bordeaux. [[Call the FPÖ:Guselbauer!]] Maybe that's what it's got to do. Of course: Airshow in Paris! I can imagine very well that there was something like this in the hotel. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, what is not necessary at this time? I really imagine it that way. Then: How anyone can be pulled over the table like this SPÖ minister did is inconceivable. This shows its personal inability, which has caused millions of euros to be damaged by the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] And the evidence for this bad comparison is none other than Mr Doskozil. Maybe you'll know him, too. He said: That's all shit! So: Darabos has purchased sinteur scrap with this comparison. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Mr Heinzl, calm down again, play the railway at home again, it's going on again! We have had this debate here before. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: The wanton citizen from Krems makes himself important inside here!]] – The “Fucher-Bürgermeister”? I don't even run. Where do you even live, you with the red glasses? Please take care of your chancellor and chairman and his twilight with Mr. Silberstein! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Look You'd rather go there more precisely! Take care of your own Lower Austrian SPÖ shear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Now we are dealing with Minister Darabos! This bad comparison of him costs our state a lot. Doskozil says: All this is scrap, we need complete airspace monitoring! If we had the original aircraft on which it was then called from the experts, they could not be delivered at all, so if we had these new aircraft, we would not have to buy it now. We bought scrap, we bought it expensive and now we even have to say goodbye. That's the darabos comparison! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And with regard to political responsibility: I see no responsibility at the ÖVP, at the FPÖ, at the Greens, at the NEOS... [[Abg. Heinzl: Go, not at all, not at all!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] What political responsibility should Mr Darabos have at all? - It only has yours, your reds! Mr Heinzl, ex-minister Darabos is still SPÖ member, who belongs to you who sticks to your bake. [[Abg. Heinzl: Wasn't the disc with you even, or can't you remember?]] – I am not being disturbed by your calls now, they are such a thing... [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I'm now inclined to use a formulation that would have to call for an order. Should I do it now or not? - No! My President says no, although I now have a great desire to raise a call for order on the subject of intelligence. [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr President, Mr Rosenkranz wants an order.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the red light is now shining longer than I would have wished to speak. [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr President! The Rosary deserves an order call! He says it himself!]] It's also about counter-businesses. I think counter-businesses are absolutely necessary, but in this form, as they have been practiced, they are a full-fledged person – to quote someone who will probably no longer play a role in Austrian domestic policy. This – counter-business – is important for Austria's economic location, but not everything one shows can be a counter-business. These control mechanisms, which have existed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where some of them have entered the consortium, then they are eliminated again or otherwise something, which was actually a farce. [[Abg. Kogler: should have given!]] This has nothing to do with serious control. And there's been a lot of statements that said: In reality, we don't know what a counter-business is and what none is. - That's where we need to learn. If, now, we are talking about the motions for resolutions tabled by the NEOS, let us say: We're going to reject them. First of all, a free state attorney has never been to the party line with us. And one thing I like very well, namely: Justice should be able to teach external experts at the Public Prosecutor's Office, and there should be a pool for that. I'll tell you: He's already there! This pool is called judicially sworn experts, and they are constantly being drawn into all things. And otherwise there are only the officials of the Republic, those are the prosecutors. I do not want any private individuals who have any sovereign powers. The expert does the whole thing, and that's enough. If we have too few experts, they must be trained. Our universities are responsible for this. Total: The investigative committee, which was terminated prematurely due to the re-election and which needed an extension – many people did not come – was a success, not only because it was very disciplined and negotiated with a time regime that was really asked efficiently, even by the judge who saved a lot of time. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I believe that this is the basis for carrying out research committees in the future. And after the 15th century. In October, the quarter of Members who can use one will even be alone with the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26640	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26661	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is good if the FPÖ is to set up an investigation committee because the most important informationers will be blue lubricating brothers, free ministers from black and blue cabinets. If the FPÖ allows itself to be invited to the Investigation Committee, I should be right. But don't make any illusions! We have now rightly dealt with a chapter of the SPÖ at the beginning – due to the threat of limitation – that was the chapter of Darabos. It has been very well documented that the fall of SPÖ in the Eurofighter question was the price for government participation with the ÖVP. It was also very well documented that Darabos was probably the first negotiator who could not pull the Eurofighter over the table because he flew across the table. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We've cleared up the Darabos chapter, except for a few questions. But that's not the main Eurofighter story, it's a complementary story that shows that the SPÖ tends to fall down in such situations. But the SPÖ is certainly not the Eurofighter party. That's nonsense. There are two Eurofighter parties in this house, which are ÖVP and Freedom Party. We owe them everything from Eurofighter to BUWOG, from Telekom to Hypo Alpe-Adria. It's meaty where in Austria there's some sort of corruption, the only thing that's fixed is: One swamp is black and the other swamp is blue. And now it's going to be turned to Turquoise so you can say that's all black, that's not us. Just as you always say, it's a new Freedom Party that has nothing to do with the old – that's nonsense too. We've been dealing with a few lubrication cycles that we couldn't fully explain. The most famous and largest is Vector Aerospace. The second most important, much less known is City Chambers, a system similar to Vector Aerospace. The track of City Chambers in London leads to a Vienna law firm. There's one, let's say, investment specialist sat down and at the neighboring desk a lawyer. At the time, this lawyer was a liberal MP and spokesperson: Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, it's not true!]] The track leads over €9 million to the Fichtenbauer office. Is Fichtenbauer now FPÖ old or FPÖ new? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You only trust to say that under the protection of immunity!]] So, and we will be presenting some documents of the prosecutor's office about Mr Fichtenbauer within the next week. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Becoming!]] We'll talk about what the prosecutor knows about the lawyer Dr. Fichtenbauer, not just in the Eurofighter affair. There are a lot more here, for example, in connection with money laundering. But that's another chapter. That did not concern us in this committee of inquiry. I would like to thank all the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their constructive cooperation. With this committee of inquiry, we have shown that we as Parliament, if we wish, can clarify and strengthen the position of the Republic of Austria enormously. And it's in the current situation – what it's about: Who wins, Airbus or the Republic of Austria? – important to strengthen this position enormously and decisively. We've done a lot. The SPÖ has not tried to prevent the Darabos chapter from being clarified. That wasn't funny for the SPÖ. Others have not tried to prevent the much, much more important chapters of counter-business corruption, billions of corruption under the leadership of Airbus, DaimlerChrysler and Magna to a large extent. That's one of the biggest swamps I've seen in the last 20 years. And here we will have to look very closely at some companies, including Magna and DaimlerChrysler. The very last one: I continue to show great appreciation for the Committee's colleagues because we have shown how a new and different Parliament looks. The fact that there was a small decline in the old government parliament yesterday in the Committee – no, I do not look at NEOS, nor at the green group, which both wanted to work to make this a good end together anyway – is what we forget, because that was to forget. Let us see that we are bringing the good of this Committee of Inquiry to the next National Council and re-starting there with such good and professional cooperation as it has not yet been in the history of parliamentary investigations! Thank you all for that. And with the help of the Freedom Party, we will be able to examine some liberal and ÖVP swamps during the next legislative period. Special thanks to the FPÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26757	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26778	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to Mr Rosenkranz's speech, Mr Pilz's speech could be found that, according to the new regime, as is now being negotiated, the investigation committees have experienced a significant increase in the quality of information work – from file provision to the quality of the file to the question of the information subjects – compared with previous committees of inquiry. But still: We know that a committee of inquiry is not a court but a political instrument, and that is why we have to put things on the feet, at least in their course. The starting position is that in 2002 the Black and Blue Federal Government purchased 24 pieces of NATO-suitable fighter jets, the most expensive, what was on the market at that time, with possibilities of air-soil weaponry for the Republic of Austria. According to Wolfgang Schüssel, this deal should not cost taxpayers a cent. I remember exactly these statements. Eurofighters should be financed by over 200 percent of counter-businesses and by an economic platform. I've been thinking about it at the time: Why take only 24 interceptors? If I can earn the double, I will take a hundred in an economically difficult situation! [[Abg. Kogler: A hundred would be good!]] This is similar to this short-term interest rate. This is the same economic access. [[Abg. Kogler: The lever effect!]] The fact is that these counter-actions have led to corruption and lubricating payments in various variants. I'm right about Mr Rosenkranz, there were already a few guys with a lot of money for zero performance. But there you have to say again: This is the responsibility of those who employ these people. But the fact is that it has become possible through this platform, by accepting counter-businesses, that this swamp has spread over the Republic. For the then Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, these deals – I quote – had a “taste”. They were not tasteless or corrupt, but they had a “taste” – in contrast to the later Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, who nevertheless had a relatively clear reaction to these counter-actions and then partially discontinued them. The fact is that – and I am again with Mr Rosenkranz and his criticism of the Greens – we Socialists confess to us comprehensive national defence and know that airspace surveillance is also necessary, but airspace surveillance in that military sense, in which it is necessary, and not with NATO-suitable battle jets, which has therefore acquired shells because he had the NATO option in his security doctor at that time and has removed neutrality as a mickey mouse, liliput and Mozart ball theme. The fact is that all the problems surrounding the Eurofighter are based on this basic contract and that one can only draw the lessons from it if one does not propose any renewals in its final report, and says that this has already happened, we can continue to do so. The fact is – and I am a hundred percent with Minister of Defense Doskozil – that counter-businesses may also be able to get over the stage properly in the economy, but we have noticed for years and decades that this seems impossible in military orders, in arms operations – and as long as it is not possible, there must be no lobbyists and no counter-businesses in arms acquisitions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] Finally, a note on the media attacks against the Minister of Defence, who are now coming from Eurofighter's side. In the “Kurier” yesterday, the lawyer of Airbus, a certain Peter Kleinschmidt – I quote – says: ‘Laut contract had ‘principled’ Airbus the contested costs for the counter-contracts. – “Paided” is a noble expression and means that taxpayers have also paid the money for fraud, corruption and bribery for Eurofighters. And – I continue to quote –: “The Republic knew that counter-businesses can be very cost-intensive, and it is not uncommon,” – that is, it is common practice – “to include these costs in the calculation.” With this statement, the Airbus Group, its lawyer Kleinschmidt and the ex-CSU politician Peter Gauweiler are losing any legitimacy in attacking the Republic of Austria and Defense Minister Darabos. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Doskozil! - Darabos or Doskozil?]] That was a shot that got out of the back. That is why I really ask, away from the election campaign, for 100% support from all the parties represented in Parliament. We must continue to expose the swamp and support the financial procuratorate and defense minister Doskozil in the fight against Airbus. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Doskozil, not Darabos! Just like that!]] The money has to go back!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26860	The next one on the speaker list is Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26882	Yes, it is the Parliament's most important task to deal here with the control of government and administrative acts, to expose abuses, but of course also to ensure transparency, and to work out solutions in view of such abuses, which are now a minority right in committee of inquiry, which are thanks to God, and also to draw up legislative initiatives in order to prevent these abuses in the future. That is exactly what we have pursued together in recent months in the framework of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I can only confirm this and I would also like to confirm yesterday's assessment of the Committee's opinion by the Committee on Inquiry and National Council President Karlheinz, who called it objective and efficient. The subject-matter of the investigation was the execution of the federal government from 2000 to 2016. Unfortunately, the Committee of Inquiry has not dealt with the last blocks of topics, the blocks 3 and 4. We have only – and this is, of course, the reason why I believe that there is absolutely a need for a continuation – to deal with the comparative agreement under Darabos and the issue of the unlawful payment flows around the Eurofighter deal itself. The two central areas that would then still follow – and these concern the basic contract itself, which has been concluded under black and blue – still stand out. However, this is a very important question, wherever it is necessary to be able to load more information. Two out of four topics have not been dealt with within the Committee of Inquiry. It is in these one-and-a-half issues that we are dealing with. Nevertheless, it has been shown that there has been significant misunderstandings in the handling of the counter-businesses, as well as in the influence of lobbyists. A Gustopückerl – and it was an honour for me to be allowed to question this lady – there was also, among other things, in connection with money payments and success premiums that flowed from the Eurofighter and EEADS sides. Procedural Judge Rohr has also noted in his report that Eurofighter and EADS have demonstrated ‘a process that is not expected to be carried out by a large group in accordance with normal economic circumstances’. In the run-up to the type decision, Eurofighter and EADS carried out a strange advertising strategy by tasking small and relatively unknown agencies and newly founded societies with opinion, argumentation transport and mood improvement to the Eurofighter Typhoon. One of these PR agencies was also “PR and more” by Romana Schmidt. She was a former FPÖ employee and because of her parliamentary work with the then representative and clubman of FPÖ Herbert Scheibner. This lady I was allowed to question has for her work, i.e. search activities and, and, in total, how did Mr. Rohrer write? – created seven or nine folders, where they collected information, and received 20 000 € per month and a success fee, one should opt for the Eurofighter, of almost 900 000 €. So everyone and every employee would be happy about such a high Gage, because the performance that was provided there simply does not fit what has been paid out. Procedural judge Rohner also writes in his report that it is not surprising that flows of this kind, such as those for Romana Schmidt, seem to have been intended for other purposes. It is therefore obvious that there have been conscious influences here in terms of the Eurofighter type decision by financial payments. And in my opinion, it has not been possible to provide effective control in the counter-business contract and also in the original purchase contract, which would also make it possible to understand what caused impenetrable flows of money. As far as the conclusion to be drawn from it is concerned, I must join my previous speakers: In this area, the arms industry needs a decreed lobbyist ban and a bar against corruption by ending intrusive counter-actions. So that's absolutely certain for me: It needs a counter-business ban in this area and specifies improved corruption resolution clauses in the contracts. I would also like to join with Mr Bernhard's motions for resolutions as regards the economic and corruption prosecutor's office, the need to strengthen this deciduously, and the establishment of a non-wisdom state prosecutorship, which then replaces the Minister of Justice, who is practically the head of the guidance chain in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26949	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e26970	Mr President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Preparation is A and O. – That's what I'm my credo for political work and my credo as a manager in the private sector. Unfortunately, within the Committee of Inquiry, there was no longer any possibility of questioning Mr Ex-Minister Darabos for a second time, because we would have thought a lot of what remains to be said about the question of his really unprepared comparative negotiations. For me, it is really inconceivable with the economic naïveness of these Eurofighter negotiations. We have all experienced this handwritten comparison. If the Minister had at least completed this Altmannsdorf comparison, that would still have been better than what followed in Paris afterwards. I find the legal assessment for Jus-students or Jus-students exciting, who choose this as a dissertation theme, whether the comparison in Altmannsdorf was legally effective or not. For WU students – and I say so – the comparison is an example of how not to negotiate. Mr Mag. In my opinion, Darabos acted politically negligently, unprepared, without experts, with an underestimation of the economic situation and, above all, under non-existent time pressure, were driven solely by his political requirements, which came from the election campaign, to dissolve or at least to reduce the number of pieces. He has also simply ignored the provisions of federal budgetary law – and he has already referred to them in the previous speakers. I quote here the trial judge, who has clearly stated in his independent report: ‘Darabos has acted against the provisions of the Federal Budget Act, which he has chosen.’ Ladies and gentlemen! Such a thing must certainly not happen again in the procurement process of this scale! What remains of the Darabos comparison is the following: Instead of state-of-the-art, factory-new jets, Austria received an old series of aircraft with mostly used aircraft without the necessary night and bad weather sighting devices – so you have been blind – and without the self-protection devices. All of this got Austria at a higher piece price, as the Court of Auditors confirmed us, by more than €5 million, than the original purchase price per Eurofighter has been in the basic contract at that time. So this comparison has caused damage to the Republic and taxpayers and not, as many times claim, a profit. Ladies and gentlemen! The re-purchasing of aircraft for airspace surveillance is scheduled for the next legislative period. But I say quite clearly: Such a irrational procedure must not be repeated! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27031	Mr Steinbichler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27052	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators in front of the TV sets and at the visitor gallery! [[The speaker places a table entitled “Replacement Parts” on the speaker’s desk, on which five rings have been glued.]] In fact, I was very disappointed yesterday because I experienced the great fear that the government parties have of a bit of living democracy. No one can explain to me what it would have been like if Mr Pilz and I, whom we have worked all the time in committee, had been there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You weren't there yesterday!]] - Yes, because I don't let myself be locked out. Then you have to say clearly: These are the moments when one sees how living democracy is really being dealt with. I don't think there's any better evidence for this. I have consciously taken with me these spare parts, which I have used in Parliament before, a very clear presentation to show the population what was going on. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Every house builder, every person outside knows how many side panes may cost, how much such sealing rings may cost. Considering that in part 100- to 1 800-fold prices have been paid for this, it becomes clear what picture the population should show and show itself. I have a few points to make in the Committee. I know it took care of laughter when I questioned the former chancellor's bowl. Farmers' Whites are told, but I think no farmer would be so naïve that he ordered a new tractor with front loader and then boasted when he's delivered a used tractor without front loader, and he's talking about a super store. I think that's significant. When you consider what happened there – Mrs. Steinacker, I have to correct you –: The basis for this entire scandal has already been laid by one of the still active members of the new ÖVP, ex-minister Platter. He has already signed the most terrible contract, where the right of return was not possible, so we could not even break this contract. Further this comparison came to fruition, and it is clear that: In the ministry, there were mules. People at EADS knew better than their own minister. It's all been clearly proved. I think you're getting more and more aware of how it's possible for such a huge deception to happen. And then they said, Okay, this comparison must be a huge success. We have to explain to the people, it was a huge business. If we return these planes now, when we close a comparison, we have saved at least €300 million. - Yes! At the same time, over the return flows, over the increased invoices, about the costs of the daily operation, over the increased repair costs, the funds have been rescheduled. That was part of it. The other part was part of the counter-contracts. It is shocking that papers are available, e-mails that you have to be counter-businesses of 1 billion € no later than a year. Counter-businesses of € 1 billion, which were actually not counter-businesses, but they have tried meticulously to show lists of what was initiated with everything that was flown back into purchases, orders. I was really shocked when I saw that even the Hartberg farmer's quarter came out of these shops. What was included in it – it really smells like heaven. Thus one has tried to represent a huge business that was in fact none, but it has caused a damage of over €1.2 billion. This money has to be recovered: every euro that comes from taxpayers who have been abused or used for various lobbyists. Mrs. Colleague! I was shocked at the natural nature of an ÖVP seal, ex-minister Bartenstein, about lobbyists who brought the big money and what of course to pay to commissions. It is only then that we see how far these people have moved away from the people. We are in favour of continuing the committee. I think it is very essential that taxpayers get this money back. I can conclude by saying this – I am ready, Mr President – because falsely some times in the newspapers have been tried to present that we do not have a programme. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] I mention only two points which are very important in this context: the maintenance of cash and political liability. That's essential. Political liability is mandatory to introduce these scandals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27100	Mr Bösch, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The procurement and operation of the Eurofighters are really among the most unpleasant chapters in the history of the Republic of the last decades. It has appeared and been confirmed, even in the second Eurofighter investigative committee, which I honestly believe would not have been possible. We have returned to the second Eurofighter Investigation Committee, which in 2006 and 2007 examined the political responsibility for the type decision and the establishment of the first contract, in the second Eurofighter Investigation Committee, and all the accusations that have been formulated at the time have been confirmed. In the first Eurofighter Investigation Committee, it was clearly stated that the financial flows, which were taken from the seller's side by EADS and Eurofighter, cannot be clarified. There are letterbox companies, lobbyists, PR offices, even football clubs in close relation to SPÖ were promoted. Mr. Pilz, aren't you a football fan? Was that your club, or was that another? - Oh, that's it! [[Abg. Fekter: That was his club, that's why he didn't mention it!]] This responsibility could be brought back to the wallpaper in the second Eurofighter investigation committee. However, we must say clearly that after the first Eurofighter investigation committee, there has been extensive accusations. Some charges have led to convictions. However, some charges have been filed, because of unsatisfied arguments, I have to admit that because it was not sustainable to explain why the suspicion could not be cleared, but only a lack of evidence. So we were able to clarify the political responsibility in relation to the type decision and the establishment of the first contract at that time, and the prosecutors have taken action in relation to the accusations put on the table by the first Eurofighter investigation committee. We were also able to review counter-businesses again, and we also examined the statement of the then Federal Chancellor of the ÖVP in the 2002 election campaign, namely that the Eurofighters themselves would finance themselves. Yes, he even said that they would be privately financed. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] All these claims of the time were punished by lies, including in the statements of the former ministers regarding counter-acts. Counter-acts are completely indisputable in the way they took place, and we have noted financial flows in this respect, also in the second Eurofighter investigation committee, which could not be explained. However, in this second Eurofighter study committee, we have clarified the political responsibility of the 2007 Darabos comparison. That has already been said enough by previous speakers – especially by Walter Rosenkranz. With the Darabos comparison, the political and the economic miscarriage also followed the military. We now have sintered interceptors, who can only half of what we actually need. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, political responsibility has also been clarified in this second Eurofighter investigation committee. Now the courts are on the train, even in these areas that have led to the charge, and we all know that the prosecutors in Munich and Vienna are already conducting surveys and are announced there that they will be charged against various managers or persons involved in this case in the coming year. In addition to this functioning committee of inquiry, we have therefore clearly identified the limits of parliamentary information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Parliamentary Enlightenment ends where police action is needed to continue the investigation. This is the case of the prosecutors, this is the case of the police. They can make house searches that can open accounts, which is in further consequence case of the courts. [[Abg. Kogler: Do them usually not!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the political responsibility for all areas, namely the type of decision, the establishment of the contract number one, the counter-actions and the Darabos comparison, has been clarified by these two Eurofighter investigation committees and that the courts or prosecutors are now on the train. That is why I can say to the liberals that we were of course in favour of the Enlightenment in this second Eurofighter Investigation Committee, Mr Pilz, and we will continue to be in favour of clarification if new aspects of a political responsibility to be clarified arise. But I would like to say one thing, Mr Pilz: The blue-black bodies announced by you were quite empty, because above all of us liberals I can say that we have already removed them ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27190	Mr Schabhüttl has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27212	Mr President. Appreciate sisters here and at home! High house! First of all, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all those who have been involved in this committee and who have been there for the most part, for their very practicality and professionalism. Before I go into the procurement process of these Eurofighters, I would like to recall what is contained in the Federal Constitutional Act and in the Military Power Act on airspace surveillance. Abbreviated and simplified, airspace surveillance is called flying, monitoring the airspace, identifying unknown flight objects and, if necessary, removing them from their own airspace, and all of this is in line with neutrality. Before these factual and sober considerations, the decision of the then Chancellor Schüssel to buy these fighter planes to buy this “Eurofighter Typhoon” was completely wrong at the beginning of the 2000s. I also tell you why that was completely wrong at the time. This fighter plane with the technical equipment for ground fighting was purchased by the government of Schüssel at the time because it wanted to go to NATO. It was an absolutely expensive fighter aircraft after that time. First, 24 fighter planes were to be purchased, then the flood came between them, then it was 18. We know from the investigative committee that the Ministry of Defense assumes an airspace surveillance of 12 to 15 aircraft. Fighter planes of the tranche 2/Block 8 were purchased, which did not even exist when signing the contract at that time. Then there was this replacement power, i.e., Eurofighter was able to deliver the tranche 1/Block 5 and convert it to the tranche 2 block-8 aircraft without a time limit. We have also heard quite clearly in this committee of inquiry that it would never have become a tranche 2 block-8 aircraft from a tranche 1-block 5 aircraft. This decision was sold to us by the then black and blue government with the cost of € 2 billion and these counter-businesses amounting to € 4 billion. From today's point of view, this was the start-up and opening-up to corruption, lobbyism and sham business. This contract was dictated by EADS, Eurofighter and adopted by the then Federal Government. We from Social Democracy were very critical of this Treaty and wanted to resolve it. When we came to the government in 2007, an expert, the recognised civil rightsist Professor Dr. Koziol, was also appointed by the then Minister of Defense Norbert Darabos. He concluded in his opinion that a significant risk for the Republic of Austria would be to withdraw from this Treaty. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The opinion is already...!]] Therefore, Darabos remained only the opportunity to go into contractual negotiations for a comparison. One can now share one's view whether one has a Comparison is satisfied or not. A comparison is always a comparison, and the efforts and that there have been savings must not be agreed upon by Darabos. One thing he did, he used a task force. This Task Force has submitted to our current Minister the documents which show that there is a significant suspicion that the Republic of Austria has been deceived or financially massively damaged. Doskozil then acted immediately and correctly and announced Airbus to the prosecutor's office. If we have to take action against a large group today and have already made this announcement, I would like to ask all the parties represented here that they stand behind Minister of Defense Doskozil, appear closed in the sense of our population and also do not shy a possible confrontation with Airbus.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27248	Mr Ertlschweiger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27272	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Eurofighter Investigation Committee held its last meeting yesterday. Today it is time to take stock. What remains of the 90 session hours and about 1.5 million pages of documents? I believe that we can draw several conclusions from this Eurofighter investigation committee. First – we have heard it today – that it should no longer be possible for a minister to complete his or her own business without the involvement of the financial procurator or the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise it can become very expensive for the Republic. Secondly, we need more transparency in the future. The financial attorney, the lawyer of the Republic, was not involved in the final negotiations of the Eurofighter deal. That can't happen in the future. Thirdly, I think it is necessary that in future there will be very clear rules for counter-actions which I do not consider to be bad, or which I do not consider to be absolutely objectionable, which must not overshadow the partner. It will have to be considered exactly how to deal with counter-actions in the future or what control mechanisms are possible to prevent or eliminate abuses. This should be discussed in calmness and objectivity. Last, but not least, the public must be made even more aware that an investigation committee is not a criminal court or a substitute state attorney. What we need to clarify is solely political responsibility. Let me also say a word about the process: The time pressure created by the preferred new elections has shown very well that it is possible to draw a round picture of the subject matter in a tight time corset. I believe that this inconsistency and efficiency, particularly the chairman of the Committee, is one of the main reasons why the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Karlheinz It has contributed substantially to the future of the future. In my opinion, a committee of inquiry should not be a spectacle or a playground for individual Members, but a valuable and serious instrument of democracy. If this instrument is lived by the Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is also perceived by the citizens. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27318	Mr Brückl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27339	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Those who make themselves here and claim that a committee of inquiry would lead to hundreds of millions of taxpayers being recovered, up to a billion of taxpayers in that country, who scatters the people's sand into the eyes and actually operates sham. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A committee of inquiry is only an instrument of parliamentary control and can create maximum requirements that can serve the criminal courts. High house! What is left of this Eurofighter investigation committee, from a committee of inquiry which examined the Darabos comparison, a comparison that had to be made at any price that would have been at all costs No matter how high this price has been, price reduction had to be brought? What remains of a Eurofighter investigation committee that has examined undue payment flows in connection with the acquisition, the settlement or the accounting of counter-actions? What remains of a Eurofighter Investigation Committee, which has found that Mr Darabos, Federal Minister of Finance, has booted out the financial procuratorship as an appointed representative of the Republic of Austria and has used private experts? What remains of a Eurofighter Research Committee which has identified obvious shortcomings in the exercise of political responsibility and supervision in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs? It remains, ladies and gentlemen, that in future procurement procedures – which has already been mentioned today – the financial procuratorship must be involved. It remains to be seen that the acquisition of external experts must be very, very critical, and that it must be put into question. It remains that in the accounting of counter-actions, as demonstrated in this investigation committee, the service supervision in the Ministry of Economic Affairs failed. The staff in the department there were hopelessly overwhelmed due to an acute lack of personnel, and in at least one case an official has developed his own dynamic which could have been to the detriment of the Republic. It remains, ladies and gentlemen, and I quote from the “profile” that “a completely overwhelmed Norbert Darabos” has concluded a comparison that has led us to find ourselves today in a situation in which we have to establish a battleplane cemetery and, as a result of the comparison of the German Federal Minister Doskozil, we have meant that the Eurofighters are too expensive and not always usable and that a re-operation is no longer reasonable to the taxpayer. In doing so, the current SPÖ Minister Doskozil also clearly acknowledges to his predecessor, the SPÖ Minister Darabos, that he is responsible for this immense damage. In summary, therefore, it must be noted that the comparison that Darabos concluded was to the detriment of the Republic. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The suspicion that there have been undue cash flows of payments and commissions in the mediation and settlement of counter-contracts has been hardened, but it has not been confirmed due to lack of witness statements and refusals to provide information. In conclusion, Mr President, I should also like to express my thanks to the members of this committee for their cooperation, but also to Mr Head, who has managed this committee very sovereignly and professionally. It has been shown that a committee of inquiry, as it is now set up and organized, is indeed a means of parliamentary control, which must also be used in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27400	Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27421	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come back to that again: What was the basis for the survey? 1.5 million pages of documents delivered by 21 posts, which were dealt with during a period of six weeks in 17 sessions with 85 hours of meeting time and 25 persons. One thing, Mr Brückl, I would like to say to you: We've only done some of it. We have made part of it, and it was only a subject complex that we have dealt with, and that was the subject complex that dealt exclusively with the conclusion of the comparison and the task force. Overall, we wanted to have a chronological sequence with the Eurofighters, but it was neither in the interest of the ÖVP nor in the interest of the FPÖ that we generally discuss the conclusion of the contract, the motivation for the type decision or the status of the contract. That was not the subject, and that is not the conclusion of the whole. I would like to come back to the base again. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Wouldn't you have made new elections!]] -I didn't call the new elections. – At the time, the political motive of Schwarz-Blau was the procurement of the Eurofighters in 2002, which was at the time the thought of NATO accession and international fighting. Even the possible departure from neutrality was deliberately acquired by Black-Blue at the time, and the combat aircraft far beyond airspace surveillance were acquired in full equipment. In the implementation of these black and blue They even incorporated passages into a treaty that still has a negative impact on the Republic. I would like to stress two details from the report of the Court of First Instance: the capacity to replace and the counter-business agreement. In particular, the counter-business agreement was the one that was the entry key to corruption and fraudulent action in the Republic. Around the counter-businesses there was an international network, which by letterbox companies shifted millions of amounts under the title commissions. This network still employs the prosecutors in Europe today. That is why I would like to make once again our recommendations on this committee: no more counter-businesses and no more lobbying activities on federal contracts. And I would like to say that the EIA is against it. You're up against business! We do not want any gag contracts, a minimum legal standard within the meaning of the general terms and conditions of the contract, in order to ensure greater transparency and less legal uncertainty, in the end we also need to clarify the documentation requirement for the Federal Government's procurement. It's never supposed to happen to such dubious shops that then incubated us with black and blue.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27461	Mr Ing. Hofinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27482	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear colleague Lueger, I would like to correct a little: Two areas have been dealt with in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, not only the comparison, but also the counter-actions you are against. [[Abg. Lueger: No!]] However, first of all I would like to express my great thanks to Mr Karlheinz Kopf and Mr Procurator Rohrer, as many other speakers have said, for the excellent chairmanship of Mr Karlheinz Kopf and Mr Procurator Rohr, who have really led the Examining Committee in an excellent way and who, together with us, have also brought to light the essential elements of political responsibility. I would also like to highlight the cooperation between the various political groups, which was very factual and constructive. It has already shown that every political group was really interested in scientific information. I personally believe that this Committee of Inquiry has one thing to do with the fact that these comparative negotiations by the former Federal Minister Darabos are illogical and I believe that they are a disaster. Because for € 200 million less flyers, used flyers, to buy less well equipped flyers, to buy that the useful life is lower, the replacement part acquisition is difficult to almost impossible and therefore very expensive, I think is incomprehensible. It must no longer be possible for this to be negotiated without a financial procurator. In the future, we need a better involvement of the Ministry of Finance, the financial procurator. I would like to say one more thing about the counter-actions: I am in favour of counter-businesses, because they, of course, also bring jobs to our country. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, what were those? That's inconceivable! What jobs did that bring? That's not true! Tell me a company! They were air business!]] Of course, we need to change the way in which the counter-actions have been concluded, and I believe that the form, the recording of these counter-actions, must be improved. Finally, I would like to stress in all the work of the Committee of Inquiry the staff who have done excellent work and would like to thank me very much once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27535	Mr Mag. Unterrainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27553	Mr Bösch, you already know that the reason why we have this scrap, as you call the pilots, is actually the origin of the basic contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] If one would not have negotiated this replacement power in the basic treaty, then we would not have a subject today, because then we could have left the Treaty free of charge. And this pussy, if you want to call it that, has caused black-blue and no one else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Whoever is still watching, welcome in front of the screens and at the gallery! From the beginning, the acquisition of the Eurofighters was characterised by the simultaneous negotiation of counter-businesses, one can also say G’schäftln. Due to the arrangement of these questionable machinations, the Eurofighter should finance itself almost on its own: just under €2 billion in costs – 4 billion € we get in. Colleague Rosary – where is he then? - Here, fine! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Here, at work!]] You said, the fuller of counter-businesses. I would just like to remind you that the opposites also have the origin of the original contract, even this is a blue-black story and no other. Today, we also know that the Eurofighter has not been acquired to defend the air sovereignty of Austria, but the most expensive military war apparatus has been acquired all the time to attack ground targets, i.e. to actively intervene in war operations and thus to qualify Austria for NATO operations and to prepare NATO accession, with the knowing elimination of neutrality. It is quite immense that a government is so opposed to people and the constitution, just because it is approaching its political ambitions. And, not enough, the procedure was almost legitimated and justified by the questionable counter-actions. A good part of the counter-contracts is designed from today's point of view and hardly comprehensible. Provision payments were on the agenda – you have to imagine that! –, commission payments for the fact that a company was willing to say that this was a counter-business, although it probably was none of it. In fact, all these misjudgments by Schwarz-Blau have had to be banished by subsequent governments. To illustrate how our Minister Darabos really did then, I would like to quote a testimony literally: “[...] if anyone was a civil servant [...] and then is a minister of defence, then I already have the opinion that this is a very inflexible, very unproductive, very inefficient and very damaging constellation.” One more thing was put on it – I quote on: “From the point of view of defense, all who are involved in the fatal comparison should be struck with a dirty, wet slut.” – Ladies and gentlemen: “Slaught with a dirty, wet slut.” I think you can now feel and understand how Darabos felt at the time, and you can understand why Darabos kept the consulting team as close as possible. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But the witness is under obligation of truth in the statement!]] Finally, I would also like to thank all the staff of the Club and the Parliamentary Directorate for their excellent work, because without it this committee would not have been feasible. I hope, in the interests of the Austrian people, that this committee will follow the 15th century. There are still many construction sites, there is still much to clarify, there is still much to investigate. I am really looking forward to being a member of the committee again, because that will be a purely black and blue story. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27615	Mr Plessl. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27636	Mr President. Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, we held the last meeting of the Committee of Inquiry on the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system, and not only the President, but also the trial judge and the group spokespersons have announced that we have had a very good discussion climate and have dealt with the issues. This brings me to the subjects, ladies and gentlemen, who are very much valued: We have some of the four topics on the 29th. On 1 March 2017 it was decided to complete one-and-a-half. There are still very many issues open, such as the unlawful payment flows or the conclusion of the contract, the type decision, the basis for the whole. I do not understand when some colleagues come out and tell us that everything would have been said and everything worked up. That's not true, and I'd like to stick to that. The reason why we couldn't finish everything is relatively simple. ==References== On March 12, 2017, we took a decision in the National Council, but through the new election idea of the Foreign Minister, the designated party president, we had only until the 12. In July, the possibility of also questioning persons. I have already come to a point that was very difficult and not easy to deal with. This is the question of the people who did not come, for whatever reason. Just an information person who has been central in the counter-businesses, Manager Siegfried Wolf, has been apologised. It would have been very interesting, precisely because he is now also in Mr Kurz's advisory staff. This may also be a happy coincidence why he could not come because new elections have been pronounced. [[Abg. Lausch: You can ask Mr Gusenbauer, he is also a consultant!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to distinguish political responsibility, and that is where the Committee of Inquiry is responsible. The other area is legal clarification. The legal clarification is carried out by the courts. There are several criminal proceedings here, five cases with a total of 33 accused. It will take a lot of time to complete all the procedures. Somehow I think I'm going back to a period of 2000 to 2006, with Telekom, Hypo, BUWOG, Blue Light Broadcasting and so on, while the courts are still busy working on all the inconsistencies to work out all the money flows. And Eurofighter is the next point; you can prove that. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is quite simply explained: the basic treaty. Who negotiated it? – There was the government of Schüssel, Haider, Bartenstein, Grasser, Scheibner and Consorten. One important thing, however, is why the FPÖ has turned from No to Yes in so few hours. This is already a very interesting thing, which it certainly still needs to be clarified. Mrs Steinacker, the main problem has been the basic treaty. [[Mr Fekter and Mr Steinacker.]] It was said by many experts: I do not want to say anything, but I do not want to say anything for the Republic, a disaster, a grossly bad treaty, and so on. There is also a so-called replacement power. You have to imagine: Eurofighter and EADS have had the opportunity if they cannot deliver the tranche 2 to deliver the tranche 1 and have an update performed sometime without a time limit. Only: But we also know that 1 and 2 are incompatible and that this would have led to extremely high costs, in maintenance and so on. So, these are things that aren't all right. [[Abg. Fekter: No, the update was free!]] – Update, yes, you also have to know, Mrs. Colleague – if you had been present, you would have known it – that it is not compatible to upgrade 1 and 2 with the same batch. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandl and Mr Neubauer.]] The second point is the counter-actions. Minister Bartenstein had no interest in doing something somewhere, because the two and a half persons working in the Ministry of Economic Affairs were totally overwhelmed by over 1,900 counter-businesses. You've also reported this several times. It must be imagined that the two and a half people have taken the documents, given the platform counter-businesses, and no one has checked whether the documents are complete or correct. Finally, a personal comment, because of course, the company's combination of Eurofighter and EADS was very extreme and very opaque: We have had the Vector-Aerospace Company in the UK, and it has founded a company Euro Business Development GmbH, the EBD. Maybe a reason why a party has decided so quickly: There was a certain woman Dipl.-Ing. Erika Schild in charge of accounting. Five and a half years, 66 months, she received a total of 120 000 € each month. It has not been able to communicate in the survey what it has done on a monthly basis with this amount. As to whether this is credible, I think everyone can make his own opinion. We also know quite clearly who was responsible: Schussel, Bartenstein, and maybe Wolf, who are consultants at short notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27703	For the second time, Mr Dr Rosenkranz has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27725	Madam President. Mr Plessl, a nicer argument for a degree I have not been able to wish for than to spread out here why the comparison was so bad: Tranche 2 and 1 are not compatible. In the department of defence, all of them knew that, and therefore the upgrade was only extremely unsatisfactory for Eurofighters to carry out economically. And that was the point where financial procuratorship and the experts in the federal army said: Mr. Minister, we have these now at the Krawattl. But nothing happened, he got persuasive. That was the point. At the time, it was known that Eurofighter could not have delivered it in accordance with the contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] That was also a point with which he did not feed expert Koziol at all. They just said to him: What does the risk look like in the event of an exit from the contract that does not take place for a reason? Of course there's the risk! Only what you feed him in the top is coming out of the expert. All this hasn't happened. I would like to illustrate what I now have to blame the then Minister Darabos with a quote from a Eurofighter pilot. They say that for the airspace defense, this device was too much upgraded. In fact, it was a really safe plane for the pilots. Now, according to a pilot there, the Eurofighter who stands around us is nothing but a flashlight that can fly at 2,000 km/h. That's how airspace defense à la SPÖ looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27773	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting to take note of the Committee of Inquiry's report on the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system and its installations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the notice to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on the recast of the decision on the future of the Eurofighters in connection with the re-establishment of the Saab 105. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on: Free-of-order state attorney. If we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues in the field of economics and corruption. Who agrees with this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. [[21:06:20]] 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 2270/A by Mr Doris Bures, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the Victims of National Socialism (1772 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1766, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Zukunftsfonds Act (1773 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27892	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wittmann was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27920	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The following shall be noted for these two applications: The National Fund, which was set up in 1995, has carried out major tasks in the area of NS withdrawals and also in the area of restitution, and was also commissioned in 2009 to redesign the Austrian permanent exhibition in the former concentration camp Auschwitz-Birkenau. A budget of €1.2 million is available for this exhibition, and of course the operation of this exhibition will continue to be ensured in the future, provided that it is not taken over by the museum itself. In the course of this work, this memorial itself has been pitied, and 6 million € have also been made available for it. I believe that this continuation of the National Fund and the extension of the tasks is only a positive task for all, which Austria must also fulfil. The same applies to the future fund. The future fund was equipped with €20 million in 2005. It is a consuming fund that is now being exploited, and it would have run out in the commemorative year. Now you have ensured the extension of the fund to five years with € 2 million each year. I believe that this too is a right, positive decision which, on the one hand, the culture of memory in Austria is manifesting, but also ensuring a future-oriented discussion with the promotion of tolerance and non-discrimination. To fix it to numbers: Last year, 335 projects were submitted and 242 were approved. I think that shows the efficiency of this fund, and I think Austria is well advised to make this decision as well. I would like to thank all my colleagues for being able to make unanimous decisions in the Committee despite the election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27956	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e27977	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already decided in 2009 that we will finance the re-adaptation of the exhibition in Auschwitz. We have taken money in order to adapt the warehouse barracks for this museum presentation. This was not quite easy, because we do not have the power of decision there, but we have to turn to the State Museum there, but we are now so far that soon the exhibition adaptation will begin. There has been a long discussion process in a social advisory board, where all groups, i.e. all political groups, but also the victim organisations of concentration camps and church representatives, and there was also a scientific advisory board. With this novelle we do not secure the exhibition, which is secured, but the continuing operation afterwards, the operating costs. I think that this is necessary, and above all, to show the next generations in these memorials, what happened at the time for atrocities. To the Future Fund Act: Mr Wittmann mentioned it already, the fund was set up in 2005 and donated with €20 million – in conclusion. In the meantime, the money is spent, but there is a wealth of projects that are devoted to the future funds, and we have now decided to perpetuate it for another five years, each with € 2 million. The contributions per project have gradually declined, i.e. the promotion is not overly lush, but it is very often the only way of promoting public funding, and the future fund is a fund that is particularly economical in the administrative field, because the board of trustees is volunteering. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is great support for these two laws. It fills me with joy that at the end we decide something unanimous, because after 27 years of activity in the High House – in the 27 years I always had a basic mandate, even that fills me with joy – I say goodbye, and I thank everyone for the most constructive cooperation and the most respectful dealings with each other. In view of the agenda we still have today, and the late hour I do not give up a broader farewell speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28018	Thank you many times, Mrs Fekter, I too wish you all the best. Mr Walser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28044	Madam President. Mr Sobotka! Mrs Fekter, I have to admit that in the past decades I have not always been the voiced fecter fan of what is happening to your political activity, but I also have to admit that I have now met you in the work on anniversary fund, national funds in the various advisory boards, and I really can thank you for your work, because you are very constructive, very much about the measures, I would say, with quite some critical comments, important comments. I greatly appreciated the cooperation with you. - Good for you! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We would already be working with the Advisory Boards. I would think that they are very good at their function, that it has really been discussed intensively. I also believe that it is a very beautiful sign of the Austrian National Council that we are able to speak with one voice on these important, sensitive past political issues and yet, in the clarity required, to make a confession of this House in order to rework history, to compensate the victims. In the past this was of course a matter of course, and I think that is an important aspect of our joint work. The importance of this work continues to show surveys. For example, if we get a SORA survey that 43 percent of Austrians want a strong man – emphasis on man – then we know that this work needs to be continued, and I thank those responsible in the National Fund as well as in the compensation fund. To the compensation fund – since it has been a little crisis for a while, it has looked as if this work could not have been continued –: We Greens have clearly positioned ourselves there. I consider this indispensable, although I must confess: Of course, a large solution is already in place, that is, a merger of all these areas, but in the current constellation I am very, very glad that those responsible can continue their work. Dr. Kurt Scholz, the chairman of the board of trustees, has done great things – I would like to stress – and we also thank Professor Hösele. It is an important work both have done, and I am sure that these 2 million euros a year are well invested money in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A hint to the conclusion: The end of the future fund has thus been turned away. Two additional members from the Federal Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance will be appointed, and I can already express my hope here that attention will also be paid to the fact that women are finally included in this board of trustees. Now we have a exclusive board of trustees, and I think that the competent authorities are well advised to choose two women to make this look a little more balanced, and I can assure the Greens: If you don't find women, we'll be happy to help you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28096	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28118	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of important and right things have already been said about the Future Fund and the National Fund. I I would therefore like to use my short speaking time for adoption and for a very short summary. When I gave my first speech in the House, everything was new to me. Yes, and today – due to the elusive quarter – much is new again. That now sounds as if not much had changed, but in between there are eleven years – eleven years in which I was able to gain many positive and negative experiences, both as a Member of Parliament and as a minister on the government bank. These experiences were very comprehensive; I remember a number of debates that would have been absolutely impossible for me, because they were simply not in line with the dignity of the House. I think it is one of our great responsibilities, for each and every one of us, that we are in line with the dignity of this House. It is anything but no matter how we appear outside as the High House. Of course, I was also allowed to experience many hours of parliamentarianism. I remember many debates that convinced me by their style and content. Yes, and then there were so many humorous inlays, but that also, of course, belongs to them. Overall, I draw a very positive summary, although I would have liked to have bigger spaces of design. Finally, I still want to say a thank you. My thanks go on. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, at the ÖVP Parliamentary Club, to all employees, but above all to my parliamentary staff. I wish you all the best and good luck for the next legislative period, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28166	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28190	Madam President. I would like to begin by extending my thanks to Maria Fekter and Trixi Karl once again as a political spokesperson. With their expertise, passion and commitment, they have always fertilized the Hohe Haus very much, sometimes also made them laugh, some of them also annoyed. But the heart was always at the right spot and the expertise was always there. A very, very great thanks to you, and everything, good for your future! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jarolim.]] Trixi Karl has spoken of the style, and we can now continue with these agenda items on national funds and future funds. In fact, it is only more important to me that I should like to stress that the future fund actually goes beyond the mere work of remembrance regarding the darkest chapter of our time. The future fund is already taking the step that we are discussing human rights, that we are talking about tolerance and that we are supporting projects in this direction, even if they are no longer directly related to National Socialism. So thank you very much to all the parties that are working there, because our task is to put the joint before the parting party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28232	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Mrs Belakovich, we are in the voting process. [[Abg. Belakovich goes to her seat and takes place.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for victims of National Socialism, including the title and receipt in 1772 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the draft law at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the Zukunftsfonds Act, including title and receipt in 1766 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their agreement to a corresponding sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[21:24:55]] 7. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1673, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol No 15 on the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (1702, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28318	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hübner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28345	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This protocol does not make any significant changes, but it is just a few procedural changes in the procedure of the European Court of Human Rights. The main purpose is to shorten the period of appeal from six months to four months and some further reliefs that are more likely to affect the complainants. Why did we not vote in committee and why we will not agree here, or at least do not agree with a high degree of probability? According to the decisions of my group at the club meeting, the following were briefly carried out: Firstly, we believe that international treaties, and that would be the subject of this Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, should be examined in advance by our Constitutional Court. Why? – Quite simply, because international treaties have an impact on international law, on national law and on official bodies, including our Constitutional Court, can no longer arrive, because we have committed ourselves internationally to things that have been deprived of our own indifference. We can only do something about it by canceling the Treaties, in which case we are leaving the Council of Europe, but that is not the aim of policy. - That's the first one. The second is that we generally believe that a reduction in the rights of the parties does not make sense. Why should we shorten the period of appeal from six months to four months? This is irrelevant for people in Austria – with us everyone will be able to find legal aid in four months to write such a complaint – but this is a very important issue for people such as Azerbaijan or Georgia, for whom there is really reason to appeal to this Court of Justice. Finally, and this must also be mentioned here, this European Court of Human Rights is not to be fully positive. What he did, many international courts do. They leave the ground of a Court of Justice and make policy. The European Court of Human Rights has done so massively in recent years at the expense of Austria. For example, he has prescribed us – many will be happy about this, but it is nevertheless an intervention in our jurisdiction and, above all, in our legislative sovereignty – the homosexual adoption, and that is not his competence, definitely not. But he also did other things. He has made the deportation of illegal residents of the country extremely difficult, not only for Austria, but also for all the other member countries of the Council of Europe. You may have followed the case of Sudan, which entered Austria via Turkey, Greece and Hungary. His application for asylum was rejected because he came across two safe third countries, at least Greece and Hungary. After the rejection had become legal, he submitted a second application, but it did not prevent the deportation, and against the deportation he appealed to the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and he found: Austria has violated its rights because it does not provide sufficient legal protection before a deportation to Hungary during the second asylum procedure. In such things, an invitation policy is being cultivated to come to Austria. It makes it difficult for reasonable management of foreigners, and in short it is involved in powers which do not belong to a Court of Justice, namely our competence to regulate the right of foreigners. This is with a reason that we place a sign here and reject the signing of the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28397	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28418	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Nowhere in the World Human rights so comprehensive protected as with us in Europe. We can be proud of that. The European Convention on Human Rights is the crucial instrument that we have to protect fundamental rights and freedoms. We also have legal certainty in Europe, which does not exist elsewhere. It is crucial that individuals with individual complaints may enforce their rights at the Court of Human Rights. On the other hand, this also means that more and more Europeans are taking advantage of this right, and this has led to a huge setback in the process. At the end of 2015, 64,885 cases were pending. It is therefore important to further develop this regulation through appropriate reforms. ==References====External links== Additional Protocol to the ECHR, and now and here we are discussing the 15. Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights to make the Court of Human Rights more efficient in its operation by means of organisational and procedural developments. I can only mention a few points in a short time: On the one hand, we have the possibility that judges do not automatically with their 70. They'll have to finish their work for a lifetime. On the other hand, with regard to entry, candidates must not be older than 65 in the future. The possibility of a party’s opposition to the assignment of the case by a board to the Grand Chamber is no longer possible in the future. The time limit for appeal as regards national decisions is reduced from six months to four months. There is also a new state of inadmissibility in order to avoid additional burden on the work of the European Court of Human Rights. A complaint may be declared inadmissible if there is no significant disadvantage for the complainant. These are some of the measures that will significantly relieve the European Court of Human Rights. I hope that this will succeed, because the protection of human rights should continue to be a very important concern in Europe, and Europe should continue to be a model worldwide beyond the borders of the European Union as far as the Council of Europe is concerned when it comes to fundamental and efficient protection of fundamental and freedom rights. Especially the enforcement of these rights for each individual must continue to be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28457	Next, Mrs Mag. Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28479	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Convention on Human Rights is certainly the most important human rights agreement in Europe to protect fundamental and human rights. There are 800 million people in Europe who can and can make use of it; Mr Lopatka has already said that they do the same. The number of complaints filed at the European Court of Human Rights has increased enormously – in 2016 to 60 000 or even more than 60 000 complaints – and this may result in years of judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. People whose fundamental rights are violated need decisions quickly. It is therefore important that the efficiency of the Court of Justice be increased, but also that the same level of Every citizen who can come to his right in a reasonable time. This additional protocol will certainly contribute to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28515	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28536	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Human rights are indivisible and human rights should apply to the same extent throughout the world. That is why it is also necessary for human rights to be enshrined in international treaties and to be binding on international and international law, so that it is not a regime or a country that comes to terms with the idea that we are only implementing a part of human rights in our country and not a part of it. That is why we can only welcome the fact that there is the European Convention on Human Rights and that there is also a highest court with the EGMR to which people, if they feel hurt in their fundamental and human rights, can turn to where they have an effective right of individual complaint. We all know that in recent years the efforts have increased and have become stronger, especially to cut down this individual right of complaint, to build up more and more obstacles. Therefore, I would like to expressly welcome it and also thank the Federal Government that it has opposed these efforts and that it has advocated for the defence of the individual right of complaint, for the survival of the individual right of complaint to the EGMR. That's hugely important. This is the 15th anniversary. Additional Protocol is, as it were, a compromise between those who wanted to curtail this individual right of complaint and those who have considered how to make the procedures more efficient, but at the same time to create obstacles so that every citizen, every citizen, can make use of this individual right of complaint. Some of the innovations have been explained by my previous speakers. I won't repeat that. Of course, we would have wished that there would be no obstacles at all to individual complaints. As I said, what is available is a compromise. We can live with it. It is very important to us that no additional obstacles are built and that the EGMR can also work well. We welcome the 15. Additional Protocol, and will therefore agree to it as a green one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28570	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28594	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! A few years after the end of the Second World War, when the idea of preventing a similar future catastrophe was expressed in Europe, it was necessary to protect human rights by means of a special system by the European States. ==References====External links== In November 1950, in the field of the Council of Europe, it was a collective protection of human rights. Between 1955 and 1998, about 45 000 complaints were lodged and treated. Since 1998, that is the year in which the standing Court of Justice has been set up, the number of cases has increased exponentially, and in 2015 it was then around 53,500 cases or complaints lodged in one year. On the one hand, this is gratifying because these figures suggest that access to human rights jurisdiction has become easier or more uncomplicated for the citizens of Europe. However, it will also be a part of the truth that, due to various undemocratic developments in some Member States, the human rights situation has become worse in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of Russia, Ukraine or Turkey. This is also confirmed by country statistics. ==References== Protocol on the Convention on Human Rights was introduced in the light of the high number of complaints to ensure the functioning of the Court of Justice in the long term without hindering access to fair jurisdiction. The Conspicuous 15th. Protocol is now a further development of these measures. My colleagues have already addressed the details. Finally, I would like to take a closer look at the collective state protection mentioned at the outset. In this case, collective means that all European states are monitoring each other over all other European states and ensuring that each of these states respects the human rights securitised in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is agreed that these human rights and fundamental freedoms should be a minimum standard in Europe. In other words, Better solutions are permitted, but not worse. In this sense, there is also the possibility that states may sue another State to the European Court of Human Rights. This has only happened twice in history since 1950 to a significant extent. I wonder if it would be time to consider such a measure in the light of the human rights situation in Turkey and, as an example, to consider the persecution and restriction of freedom of the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28636	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as there are objections to the voting procedure on this proposal, I shall interrupt the sitting briefly and ask the members of the President-in-Office to come to me. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28668	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. In the standing presidial, consensus was reached on the fact that we are going to take this vote with increased quorum. [[21:44:05]] We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1673 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I note the presence of half of the members of the National Council and ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to have a similar sign. – This is the acceptance of this State Treaty. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required. [[21:44:54]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Austrian Research and Technology Report 2017, presented by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy and by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (III-403/1676, d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28725	So we get to the 8th. Agenda item. I also welcome the two Federal Ministers. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Smart. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28752	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking both members of the government responsible for the mandate of this report. I believe that the work was not only a very careful one, but also a very good overview of all the activities of the research and technology sector, whether it be in direct research activity, in research funding up to the activities in the fields of competence centres, colleges and universities. However, the report offers not only a very good overview but also a great outlook. We can assume that there will be around €11 billion in the field of research and development in our Republic in 2017. In addition, I am pleased that Austria will become a Vice-European champion in the European comparison. I therefore mention this because, in particular, my home country, the Styria, is characterized by the fact that we are now European champions among the federal states and regions. We have a research rate of more than 5 percentage points and thus take place in Europe. I'm glad to be a Styrian MP. However, I would also like to encourage the other regions and federal states to set up relevant policy activities in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, one aspect that I would also like to address briefly, because he was at last in the public eye more strongly, is the word Silicon Austria. I am pleased that, in the same sound – or in a triangular relationship, if one can call it that – of Upper Austria, Carinthia and Styria, there is a clear focus in the microelectronics sector with the headquarters in Graz, Styria. The key questions that I believe will arise in future with regard to Silicon Austria are: How will it succeed, on the one hand, to gain Austrian industrial enterprises for a financial and content commitment? How can the conscious involvement of public authorities in the field of the microelectronics industry succeed, even high-quality jobs either directly, and if this does not succeed in creating at least indirect jobs? In this context, a close dialogue with the Austrian microelectronics industry will be necessary. Finally, a brief thought about the fast broadband Internet – you know, we have discussed this many times here in the House. I am pleased that the broadband billions have not only been successfully evaluated but have also been successfully implemented, and that it has so far succeeded in providing fast broadband Internet to the under-supplyed households in Austria – there are a total of around 600,000 households. I'm glad we're on a good way. It would be nice if the good path continued together in the 5G strategy. A small political pusher in the direction Minister of Finance: I'm sure it can work. – Thank you very much, very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28798	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28819	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Klug has already mentioned it: The research and technology report provides an overview of the status quo every year and is also dedicated to important topics that are particularly challenging for us politicians and concern the setting of measures. A central issue of the report is rightfully the area of digitalization – a development that changes a lot. We do not only face it, but we are in the middle of it, which is why policy is facing great challenges. It is important to build the best possible framework conditions so that all people in Austria can also keep up with this development and they can all take the opportunities of digitization. We already see and have experienced it in discussions: Old politics is often not targeting; what it needs is new thinking and new solutions. I have just mentioned opportunities; let me address those for rural areas: I am convinced that digitalisation offers many opportunities for rural areas. I come from the wine district, where, for example, when you think about the infrastructure, as my previous speaker mentioned it, 40 percent of households are still poor or not provided with broadband. This concerns private public institutions which are poorly supplied, as well as businesses, not only in the digital sector, but in all sectors. I last had to experience this on an operating visit. At a car workshop, I was reminded that the main concern for the policy of rapidly expanding broadband in rural areas was that it should be given priority. The employees would often sit in front of the computer for a long time and watch as the big software updates that our cars need nowadays are slowly downloaded. This is frustrating for businesses and bad in the final effect for customers and operations. As far as the broadband strategy is concerned, I cannot fully agree with my previous speaker. We have also had an evaluation of broadband promotion, which is safe and secure. It is a good prospect, and at the same time, of course, it encourages numerous measures, such as those relating to legal bases such as the Telecommunications Act. We should increase the volumes in terms of promotion, but at the same time increase our expectations and aspirations. For example, we should not only promote 30 Mbits, but also directly 100 Mbits and beyond. When we look at our German neighbours, the goal is much higher. Germany is talking about building and promoting the Gigabyte society. If the infrastructure fits, of course, many other things are also connected to digitization. In rural areas, work is a major priority. In rural regions, opportunities arise through new forms of work, such as home office and telework, which means that people no longer have to commut and work from home. Education, for example, is another issue which is also a major priority in the report. It is important to integrate digitalisation into our education system, into schools. There I am also on the side of many critics who have expressed themselves in recent days. Digitalization does not mean simply offering tablets and laptops in schools, but anchoring them in schools, which means a new cultural technique. So the topics are called: Reading, writing, computing and digitization, so that we are prepared as best as possible for the future. I would like to talk to the Austrian research landscape as a whole. In recent years, we have been able to put a lot into practice and invest very much, that has already been mentioned. We were very well on the road in the area of research, where we have been able to open up in the European field and have gone to second place. As a People's Party, we are still working together to achieve the research rate of 3.76 and we want to insist on it and on many other measures that will, of course, come in the future. Finally, I should like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation in the Committee. I think it was a good cooperation, an objective discussion, so that we could share many applications for the Austrian research landscape. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28877	Next, Mr. Ing. Heard to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28899	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will also take note of this report, this research, innovation and technology report. However, we are not as optimistic as my two previous speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, how do business companies today choose a location like Austria to settle the headquarters here? – Different criteria are responsible for this. One is the training and education system, the second is how fast I can be able to settle my business today, how fast the associated decision-making methods work. Another important factor, however, is how the research and innovation market is defined in the respective target area. We are of the opinion that in Austria a lot more can be done. It was also housed here with numbers and – formulated in Neudeutsche – rankings. - So it doesn't look so great now. So on the one hand there are wonderful Sunday speeches, on the other hand one reads in the technology report, I quote: “In summary, the development of Austrian performance in the field of the priority objectives of the FTI strategy” – i.e. research, technology and innovation – “cannot be very positive [...]. Moreover, performance in relation to the leading countries has deteriorated at 60 percent of the indicators since 2010.” That was the first point, and then there's another thing: Austrian Cooperative Research notes that we are in the seventh place in Europe. Once again, we do not reach the category of so-called Innovation Leaders. That is to say, we still have massive demands, Mrs Himmelbauer of the ÖVP. On digitization: I also come from the field of information technology. In fact, the € 1 billion invested in broadband expansion is far too little. I would ask the future Federal Government to do much more. What is it about? Is it perhaps because – and we have today been given a paper by Tal Silberstein, Newspapers – the Federal Chancellor is unfortunately the weak spot in the SPÖ himself that it doesn't go on? It is said in this paper that the chancellor's sprinkling is an essential problem. He's obviously very vain and a princess. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Perhaps this is the background why there is not really anything going on in this area. We liberals have set up a few demands that you already know enough. We need a long-term increase in research funding. We should also push for innovative public procurement – that is, away from these low-cost bidder procedures to the best bidder procedures – so that the best and most innovative companies can really get to the train. We also need less bureaucracy in research funding. Ladies and gentlemen of the current Federal Government, there will not be much, but above all for the future: There is still much, much more to be done in the research, technology and innovation market in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28953	The next item is Mrs Maurer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e28974	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! It's somehow the same every year. We also have a report again this year, which tells us that, even if the words might sound different here, we do not include the innovation leader. It is also true that in most areas, in most categories the distance between Austria and the innovation leader has increased. In particular in the environmental field, Austria's performance is highly below average, and the share of energy and environmentally relevant R&D budgets, as measured by the total public R&D budget, is not something that can be rejoiced. On this point, however, I would also like to say that there is a great discrepancy between the Council's reports – where there is always great agreement on The need for investment in research and development, on development, gives – and the reality of what is actually being implemented politically. In addition, we have a Court of Auditors report which is very, very critical of the indicators used. I must also ask Mr Klug to look at the research quotas of individual regions – yes, the Styria is far ahead, that is basically right, but the Court of Auditors is very clearly saying that these quotas are generally too questionable. This is our opinion, too. The Court of Auditors says that the research rate is neither a meaningful nor a tax-related indicator, because it is simply a figure in which one cannot really do much to control. In addition, this is also a result of the Court of Auditors' report, which is not quite sure whether the funds we spend in this area actually flow into research. There are many problems, especially in the countries. As you know, we have 240 different institutions that grant research funding in Austria. We have the problem that we have no way, in particular, to control indirect research funding, whether the funds are actually spent for research or not more for buildings or product developments and similar. These figures are therefore to be enjoyed with caution in principle. I think it would be very important for us as Parliament – in the Research Committee and also in the Scientific Committee – to consider carefully which areas we need to evaluate, which we may need to restructure in order to make this more meaningful overall. In addition, we have – and this has been complained of for many years – compared to other countries, in particular compared to the Innovation Leader, a disproportionate relationship between basic research funding and the promotion of applied research. The FWF is chronically underfinanced – it actually needed at least three times what it currently has – while we have already decided to increase the research premium again, although the evaluation of the research premium did not have this result that it would be necessary, and although Androsch and Novotny – both in the Council – say that it would not actually have needed it. Total: We take note of this report again. I appeal to all of us that we in the new GP – the ones that will be in the process – make sure to better set up the FWF overall, so that we can finance basic research more sustainable. Yes, we have achieved something with the plus of €1.35 billion for universities also for basic research, but there is still much to do. We actually need a turnaround in relation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29033	Federal Minister Mag. Lightenfried has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29054	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I have to keep a little short today, I hope it's going so long. Mr Höbart has, however, encouraged me to speak, and I shall make the effort to keep this up to the end. I believe we all agree that innovation, the related knowledge and the opportunities associated with it, the great opportunity for our economy, the great opportunity for our country to generate jobs, and the great opportunity to not only keep our prosperity but expand it. If you think about what makes this innovation the most, then there are some factors that are incredibly important. I have been responsible for these things together with Mr Mahrer over the last one and a half years. You can tell me a lot, but that I'd be jumpy or wait with anything in the direction of a princess is an unfavorable. I think it was quite successful to improve some things. If you look at these rankings, you can see that you have to differentiate. One of the most important factors is the degree of digitization in our country. And there's a very interesting OECD study that says we're about seventh – seventh is not bad, but it can get better, we certainly agree. Only if you look at it in detail do we have a very interesting phenomenon to observe: Our top companies – the front runners who export, the ones that achieve incredible successes – are not seventh, sixth, fifth, or third, but the best. [[Abg. Brunner: Why don't we invest in it?- Oh, my God!]] We managed to be really good, ladies and gentlemen! But where there is the gap: The gap then arises in contrast to the small and medium-sized enterprises. In my opinion, they are not so well digitized, they are not yet so well-connected. We need to continue, we need to expand broadband, and we also need to see that not only the development of veins, but also digitalization works in operation. They are usually digitized in production, but this production is not yet digitally networked. This is something that has to be done, of course. These are the tasks for the future. That's where we have to continue to work. And that's the claim I'm making to the future work here in the house and to the future government – as always it will look. I think that's what unites us. – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29091	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29112	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have now worked together for four years in the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. After Mr Höbart's speech, I remembered a little bit. One of my first speeches, when I came to Parliament, was on the subject of broadband development. At the time, I had to fight for it – Doris Bures, who is the president today, was the competent Minister for Infrastructure at the time – that we could make these broadband billions at all. That was a big piece for the Minister of Finance. This was a very important step, which has now been implemented and with which we have achieved much. But it was not a matter of course – if I look back only four years. When we discuss today – and I think it is important that we talk so openly – we say that it may be too little. We will have to make a lot more in the future. We are at the leap to 5G technology, which offers completely new opportunities. This is not just about speed, but about completely new technological possibilities – we need to use them. But what I really want to say, despite all the debates that have been held today and in which, of course, the election campaign has also progressed, is: A warm thanks for the cooperation in the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology! Despite all the critical debates that have taken place, I do not believe that there has been such a committee here in the House across all the committees, in which there have been so many common initiatives, and above all, above all. In all critical debates, we were delighted that we jointly recognized the importance of innovation, of technology for the scientific location of Austria. The debates remind me of many debates in the committees. Sigrid Maurerhat said that the area of applied research funding – which comes from your side – is actually far too high, we would have to do much more for basic research. – Yes, we need to do much more for basic research, but it is also important to increase research funding in particular. Mr Höbart said that we could do even more in the field of applied research funding. There will be the truth in the middle. With all the parameters we have at the moment – as we can certainly take the research rate, that is not an indicator that Austria has invented – we are Vice-European champions, we are well on the go. But yes: We need to improve in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and synergies. These are the very great tasks that will be expected in the future. I would just like to ask that we simply take this swing along in the next legislative period and fight together for it because there is a lot to do. These are key factors for prosperity, for future opportunities, for young people, and this is also about hundreds of thousands of jobs for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29166	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29188	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, digitalization has also arrived in agriculture. We see machines that can work more precisely due to special facilities. That's a good thing. We see applications in the digital field that facilitate marketing, which gives direct marketers the opportunity to also open up European markets. On the one hand, we see opportunities in the data and information collection to advance the designation of origin, on the other hand, we also need to achieve a certain market transparency and more stability in the markets. Digital tools can also be used there. And finally, there are also considerations to further drive the much-conjured red tape reduction. What is the benefit? – We can make it more environmentally friendly to use our natural resources better; we can manage to influence the economy; we can optimize costs; we can optimize working time and thus contribute to increasing farm incomes. There are undoubtedly dangers, as with any new development, any new technology. I see the dangers in the question of who uses the data produced around the globe. I certainly demand that users can actively and consciously decide who will receive their data and who will eventually be able to play their data in larger systems. And it is the big question who controls these data transfers and who ensures the security of these data transfers. Finally, I see a great potential, there is still much to develop. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the master plan of our Federal Minister Rupprechter, which calls for further digitization and further expansion of the digital infrastructure in rural areas. We have taken first successful steps when it comes to broadband development and mobile networks, but further steps need to be taken. – Thank you and all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29227	Next, Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29248	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to join where Philip Kucher, our research spokesman – if I may say so – and technology spokesperson, has stopped. That's really one of the committees I'm most sorry that the coalition is broken. I believe that the Minister of Science and Economic Affairs and the Minister of Technology have really brought about sustainability in this area, even in terms of financing – even if it is only a first step. One is actually on a good path, and it would be a pity if it were to be stopped abruptly. But I am convinced – no matter how it goes on – that you do not pass the problem. On the report itself: The increasing research funding, the second highest quota within the 28 EU countries, Silicon Austria, Digital Roadmap for Austria and the German Federal Government's IP strategy have already been mentioned. I would like to add a little more to the issue of broadband development. We have already heard that the evaluation report by WIK-Consult and WIFO is giving a good witness that the promotion process could be significantly shortened, I think it could be reduced to almost half. It has also been evaluated that in the 1-billion-€ investment, €1.2 billion will be added to the value. In addition to the €204 million previously invested, private investors invested €503 million. What is still my concern, since at the opening of the Dornbirn Messe, the Minister of Economic Affairs referred to the focus that Germany places on in this area – especially in the 5G expansion – is the following: He meant that of the €80 to €100 billion that Germany is committed to the 5G strategy, Austria would have to make a tenth of its size up to the year 2025, which means €8 to €9 billion. I then called our Minister and asked what was going on, if we were to block it. He said No – and that of course there would be the wish, but we all have to deposit it together with the Minister of Finance. I really wish you luck in the future. If you have all the tax savings – corporate tax and what we have heard today – and that At the same time, we want to make the increase to €8 to €9 billion alone in the area of broadband expansion and 5G expansion, and we need new ideas, I think. It would be important that we really focus on the essential areas. And there are the two ministers, as I hope, on a good path that can be implemented in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29300	Mr Mahrer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29321	Madam President, Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of a legislative period is actually the time to say thank you. I would also like to thank the Group speakers in the FIT Committee. It was a very appreciative and, as I believe, crazy cooperation on the matter. In fact, a number of projects have been unanimously, well prepared and decided under the involvement of many stakeholders. That is perhaps, as I have said a few times, a direction for the House. This has not only been fun, but, as I believe, has also been a very good service to the country. It is in total very much in line with the general orientation of the European Union's FTI strategy, focused on more excellence, away from the casting can, towards more impact orientation both in the transformation of basic research into applied research and to translational science directly towards products and product-oriented services. In the third area too, Austria – you know, because you have actually made the decision, the High House – is decisive in establishing a new form of openness in the field of these innovation systems through this open innovation strategy, which the FTI Committee has prepared, the Hoge Haus has decided. It is important to say thank you – in a truly exemplary form of cooperation. But thank you also for a form of openness to new and new ideas that our advisory bodies have brought into the debate. I have felt that every debate in this committee was extremely appreciative, open and reflective, whether it was the Council's lectures on research and technology development, the Council of Science or the ERA Council with excellent ideas, which can only be presented through a wonderful mixture of national and international experts. I have not experienced a debate there that would have been inappropriate in a form, but the points that were really relevant to Austria's innovation system have been taken up and have also been implemented by our two houses, both by BMVIT and by the scientific, research and economic sector, in recent months and years. It is crucial for the coming time that I believe that the relationship between input and output looks like. It has been said correctly that a research rate of almost 3.2 percent – second in the European Union – can be seen. However, the question - Mr Höbart and Mr Maurer have also raised this - is what is well balanced in this respect. Sees how it looks in the different categories of rankings. It is right, Mr Höbart, that we are not yet in the Innovation Leader Group, but it is also true that the dynamics of recent years has been positive. After all, we have improved from a mediocre position to eleven in the direction of seven – we are immediately facing entry into this group. That is, if we continue to do all our homework, even during the next legislative period, continue to invest in this strategically important area of research and development and remain in the top group of input donors, then we can also increase output with the right measures. What are the key measures? – Again: It is a very ideological-free debate, since it is possible to focus on the central benchmarks internationally. Both the BMVIT and our house, I think, have turned on the right parking screws to increase, for example, the output in the field of patents, exploitation and spin-offs from the university and non-university research institutions – keyword spin-off initiatives. Some things have been set in motion, but the harvest will logically only be possible in three to five years, because of course such measures will take some time to take reasonable action. I also believe that the swivel can continue to turn more competition in the area of money allocation towards excellence, which has already begun under Mrs. Federal Minister Karl and has been intensively operated under daughters and my predecessors. With the IST Austria in Maria Gugging, we have a wonderful blueprint model, an example, a prototype on which one can see, for example, how to provide an additional incentive for the building up of high-excellent research groups on the area of medium-dipulation of the funds acquired. Therefore, I was not surprised that this summer one of our advisory bodies, the ERA Council, recommended the gold standard of the European research grant, the Europeana Research Grants, in which we are over-proportionally successful in recruiting in Austria, in the future, to double from the federal side at all universities, the Academy of Science and IST Austria. That is, if such a team were to receive European funds – these are the most competitive means in Europe – then it would be good for the Republic to double these budgets as well, because this has an additional traction effect. We are thinking about this, and I think whoever is in the next Federal Government would be well advised to take a very competitive action. I believe that in the field of research and development, innovation – Mr Leichtfried has mentioned that this is one of the basic strategic conditions for further prosperity development in this country – a series of measures that can in fact be left ideologically out of dispute. I would also be pleased during the next legislative period if, whoever takes responsibility in these different homes, he continues this path. Allow me to finish with two brief remarks! [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] One point that needs to be addressed is the question of broadband development, because in the last few days a dispute between our two houses has been reported over and over again. Mr Eichtfried and I have been bothering today on the margins of the Council of Ministers on the completion of the strategy, and our teams are in close coordination. I am deeply convinced that in the next few weeks – ideally before the National Council election – we will be able to present a strategy that deserves the name Strategy and can be seen in an international comparison. One last point because today was university conference: You know, we have been criticised for sending the revision of the University Law on Studyplace Finance into review. On the occasion, I can remind you: It was this House, which adopted a decision at the end of June, that a Federal Government had to submit to the National Council by the end of January 2018 such a law on decision-making, a law that clearly had to decide on a reasonable capacity regime – key to access restrictions – quality optimization, improvement of care conditions at universities. I have fulfilled this responsibility as the Federal Minister responsible and have sent the law into review. The review process is over and we will draw up the proposals. This means that the law is in the drawer so that anyone who can sit in the next Federal Government can make such a proposal to the National Council as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29409	The next item is the speech by Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29431	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the speeches on this item on the agenda, I can say here that there is a general agreement to this report, even if there are, of course, additional comments on such a large report. This research and technology report shows that Austria has been very positive in recent years. It gives a good overview of the field of research and development in Austria. It seems important, in my opinion, that research and development can bring great benefits to our economy if we allow them to also be integrated into the strong competitiveness of Austria. The main responsibility for this will, of course, also be appropriate safe jobs. Austria is a country that should not compete with products from cheap countries. Rather, our strength lies in the quality and development of new products as well as in the development of new markets. I think our businesses are well placed there. The framework conditions are, of course, constantly to be adapted. It seems to me that the innovation factor is also important. Innovation means producing new knowledge, investing a lot in research and in universities. It has already been mentioned today: In 2017, Austria will provide around € 11.33 billion for research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! A point on digitization, which has already been addressed today: There is the rural master plan, and I see it as some of my previous speakers: For rural areas, digitalisation has a very important role to play. A fast internet is the central The basis for growth and, of course, also for quality of life in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: I believe that many points, which have also been included in this report, show that in many technical developments we do not necessarily have to see a danger, but that this can also be an opportunity for Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29479	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of this report III-403 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to take note of the matter, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:24:49]] 9. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29522	Finally, we reach the 9th. Agenda item. As a result of an agreement at the Presidential Conference as a result of my notified changes in the strength conditions of the clubs or the change in the stock of a club, the number of members of the main committee will be fixed by 25. This is set in accordance with § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a decision shall be taken by the National Council. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask all the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the proposal to set the number of members of the main committee by 25 in order to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the SPÖ Club eight, to the ÖVP Club eight, to the FPÖ Club five, to the Green Club three members, to the Club of NEOS a member. It is therefore due to the electoral lists according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure: From the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures, Dr. Josef Cap, Anton Heinzl, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Hannes Wenninger, Mag. Gisela Worm. From the ÖVP Club: Werner Amon, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Fritz Grillitsch, Brigitte Jank, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Ing. Hermann Schultes, Dr. Angelika tiny. From the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich. From the Green Club: Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Mag. Werner Kogler, Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill. From NEOS Club: Dr. Matthias Strolz. The election and appointment of the members of the main committee are thus carried out. We now come to the re-election of the further committees according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. After consulting the members of the Presidential Conference, a committee size of 25 members and replacement members is now proposed by common accord for the existing committees with currently 28 members and replacement members, whose distribution to the political groups is calculated in accordance with the d’Hondt system as follows: Each eight members and replacement members shall be the SPÖ and the ÖVP, five members and replacement members each to the FPÖ, three members and replacement members to the Greens, one member and one replacement member to the NEOS club. The size of the following committees shall be fixed with 25 members and replacement members: Committee for Work and Social Affairs, External Policy Committee, Building Committee, Budget Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee for Research, Innovation and Technology, Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Immunities Committee, Internal Affairs Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Culture Committee, National Defence Committee, Agriculture and Forestry Committee, Human Rights Committee, Committee for Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Court of Auditors, Sport Committee, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Education Committee, Incompatibility Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, People's Procuratorship Committee, Committee for Economics and Industry and Science Committee. I shall now vote on the amendment of the Committee size from 28 to 25 members and replacement members. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the clubs according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure announced as members or substitutes and thus as elected Members will be mentioned in the Stenographical Protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29765	The agenda is exhausted. [[22:29:34]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29786	We shall now proceed to the vote on eight motions for deadlines. I shall have to vote on each request for a deadline in the order in which the application is made, under the name of the committee, and on the number of the government proposal or the application in question. First of all, we are voting on the request by Mr Wittmann, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the Government Template 1658 of the Supplements, the Procurement Reform Act, a period of time until 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on seven motions for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. We shall first vote on it, on the report from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on Amendment No 2192/A relating to the exemption from care, until the 10th time. ==References== Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on it, to the Environment Committee for reporting on the request 2217/A concerning climate protection law, a period of time until the 10. ==References== Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Brunner: But main thing, everyone write it in their election program!]] We shall vote on it, on the report from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2161/A on poverty at the age of 10. ==References== Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on it, on the report from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, on Amendment No 2190/A concerning negative tax, on a time limit of up to 10. ==References== Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on it, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on the application 2082/A concerning the Commercial Social Security Act, for a period of up to 10 years. ==References== Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on it, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on the application 2084/A for pensioners working for work, a period of up to 10 years. ==References== Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall vote on it, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on the application 1366/A concerning unemployment insurance law, a period of up to 10 years. ==References== In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[22:33:14]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-09-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00194_d8e29845	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 2283/A(E) to 2320/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 22.34 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
