ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10598	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister! I'll open the 160. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 157. Meeting of 14. In December 2016, the unreaded parts of the official protocol of 158. ==References== The Official Protocol of the 159 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. ==References== In December 2016, the Parliament's Directorate was unable to raise any objections. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Feichtinger, Krainer, Mag. Groiß, Dr. Karlsböck, Ing. Schellenbacher, Themessl, Mag. Rossmann and Dr. Winter. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10629	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:27]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10667	In this way we arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Responsible for security in Austria and Europe against the background of migration crisis and terrorist threats” Mr Amon is the first to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10694	A wonderful morning! Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have chosen the subject – the President has put it to the vote – as follows: “Responsible for security in Austria and Europe against the background of migration crisis and terrorist threats”. Indeed, internal security, but of course in a very strong network, is a very central issue at European and international level. And although Austria is probably one of the safest countries in Europe, one can Unfortunately, there is no assumption that there are no threats in Austria. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to take appropriate measures to ensure that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pendl and Mr Weninger on his work.]] There are always people who think that Austria is also something like an island of the Blessed, a kind of safe haven, in connection with security, nothing can happen here. – It should only be pointed out that Austria is the seat of several hundred international organisations, that Austria is the UN-Sitz State, that Austria has been and is the venue of very important conferences – I remember the Iran conference, I remember the Syria talks; so it is not the case that Austria does not see a certain danger. It is therefore important that Jihadism or political Salafism should not have a place in Austria. Austria must be and remain a defensive democracy with all the measures it sets out, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is just today, a day after the Austrian Federal Government has presented a very impressive work programme for the years 2017 and 2018, a good time to refer in particular to those areas that include the field of internal security, integration. But I would like to point out one more thing: Especially in the last few days, the interior resort with you at the head, Mr. Federal Minister, has succeeded in a large campaign. My colleague Otto Pendl will not harm me if I now give thanks, thanking the police and all those involved in the major action against political Salafism, against jihadism, which, as I have already said, must not have a place in Austria. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Eßl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] I thank the police for their work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This was only possible – I think it was suspended in 14 cases, ten in Graz, four in Vienna – because we took precautions in time through legal measures, for example in the State Protection Act. I think it should already be mentioned that the government parties acted in good time, acted in good time and gave the authorities the necessary instruments. Regrettably, the opposition parties have not taken part in this important security law – perhaps it is also a teaching for you to think for a longer time about whether it does not make sense to participate in such measures and laws, ladies and gentlemen. In the work programme presented yesterday by the Federal Government for 2017 and 2018, a large number of measures are planned to reduce migration, as I have already said, because the issue cannot be migration in the sense that we are allowing a completely open move; that is, I do not mean asylum, but I expressly mean what has happened to migration, including illegal migration. This programme includes a number of measures, such as strengthening internal border protection by extending the assistance of the Federal Government and strengthening existing border controls, streamlining procedures in asylum proceedings, combating illegal migration by extending control obligations in international travel, setting up return facilities and return centres for exits with a reduction in state care for persons with disabilities and the creation of repatriation centres. leaving the special asylum regulation where public order is at risk. – These are measures, ladies and gentlemen, for which we, the government parties, are acting together. That's good, that's right, and it's necessary, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, I would like to say that this work programme contains further measures, a large security package. I don’t know if you need to formulate it like the “Salzburger Nachrichten” today, which writes about a “jackpot for the Minister of the Interior”. This may be an exaggeration, but I believe that it has been possible for Mr. Federal Minister to implement very important measures for internal security, such as the electronic footbands for hazards, the registration of prepaid cards, value cards, the expansion and networking of video surveillance including real-time streaming, electronic identification, a new model of data storage and more security in digital space. Ladies and gentlemen! These are all sensitive issues, of course, that is not a question, and I think that Austrian security policy has done well to go in this direction; we have already demonstrated this in the State Protection Act. The Austrian security authorities are not concerned simply with collecting a pile of data and then trying, as it were, to get good luck, to catch people who may be a danger, but always to follow concrete clues, to follow concrete activities – always from the point of view of the rule of law, always from the point of view of involving the legal guardians or courts accordingly. Finally, it is about the security of Austrians, and this package will certainly increase, even higher, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point that is found in this work programme of the Federal Government – and I think this is also important as a signal – is that we simply want to ensure that certain activities of certain groups in the country are not allowed to take place in the country; this is where the principle applies: Be the beginnings! This means that we are creating a criminal record for anti-state movements, that there must be higher penalties in the case of sexual harassment arising from groups, ladies and gentlemen, so that our girls and women in the country can feel safe as well; a very important point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about the safekeeping of dangerous, psychologically impaired offenders. In this context, we are also talking about a better exchange of information between the authorities, which has not been given the degree to which we consider necessary. There must also be higher penalties for attacks against public servants, ladies and gentlemen, because we must protect in particular those who take care of our safety every day and, in the truest sense, hold their heads for the Austrian population. These are good, right and important measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This work programme of the Federal Government for 2017 and 2018, I believe, is a work programme, which is also good and ambitious, because it has concrete data, because it is ensured that not the principle, paper is patient, but that the measures we consider necessary for the security of Austria are actually being implemented, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, you are truly sincerely congratulated that you have been able to implement these necessary measures for the security of the Austrian population as part of these current government negotiations, if I may say so. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10827	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. Sobotka. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10848	Madam President. High house! Dear guests! Security is a fundamental need for people, is a human right, and we see that since 2014, a global situation has been showing itself as a whole, which also presents special challenges for us in Europe. The migration movements – 65 million people in number, almost a third of them also leave their home country – are a situation that has reached Europe in a very special way and also affects Austria in a double sense. Since the last meeting of the Austrian National Council on 15. There were more than 14 terrorist attacks worldwide, seven in the so-called Western world. It seems that we have become accustomed to this weekly or every two days report of terrorist attacks as a normality. But we don't want to take that. When we look at this image, especially that of the terrorist structures, it used to be done out of completely other social-political motives; today it is being acted out of supposedly religious motives – then again and again the central situation shows that people are being done violence, who can't do anything about it and who are being held hostage, in international hostages. The pictures that are delivered to us every day, the personal experiences that we make in free public places, this virtual show that is spreading, and finally what we perceive from reports, show that the sense of security, namely the sense of subjective security, has significantly deteriorated in recent years, although the current security situation there does not reflect. It has already been said very clearly by the security spokesman of the ÖVP: Austria is a very safe country in the European context and even in the international context. And yet we see that the population has concerns, fears, and we have to do everything, not only have to take these fears and concerns seriously, but also eliminate them, and on the other hand we also need to adopt a clear package of measures which makes it necessary to maintain the legal framework that can be countered accordingly where our legal order is in danger. The most important thing, however, seems to me that we are dealing with the ground, the underground for this radicalization, but ultimately also for migration, and in the first place we are fighting the causes. As far as terrorism is concerned, it is not exclusively with police work, because we are almost surprised, and not only surprised, but totally impossible in the police work when twelve-year-old radicalizes. What happened in our society is that children who are penalized are still dealing on the Internet with the way they have to bark bombs as they do Salafist preachers and how do they actually flow into a future in an almost tunnel view that does not allow them any place in society? This requires not only the police, but above all civil society to a great extent, social pedagogical, social therapeutic, even in the earliest stages of a child, to create all the foundations that prevent such developments as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Fighting at the end of this career is important for the general public. But I think fighting earlier to prevent radicalization is the most important thing for humanity and for man personally. This is why I also see our program “GEMENSAM.SICHER” from 1. In January 2017, a rollout across Austria comes to be one of the most important projects of police work, because the police open up to society and because it has the central meaning of bringing a society of vision to attention. It must also be noticed by parents if something is going on in their children, if we know that a child is cared for five days a week by social care, but nevertheless gets into this water. It must be noticed by society when 5,000 people are standing in one place and a woman is sexually harassed. It has to be noticed by a society when in the second floor of a Vienna house, electrical appliances are permanently placed in dozens of numbers and nobody asks himself: Is there a company there or do people there have something else in mind? Ladies and gentlemen! It is a central point for us, I believe, that in areas of health, education, just as in the field of safety and in many other areas, we give the experts much in hand with what is necessary. But it will also be up to all of us to maintain a society in Austria that prevents such transactions in the approaches. This is the most important point we need to achieve. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is, of course, necessary that we contribute to the formation of consciousness, society in general, and in particular our Islamic fellow citizens, who come out of this situation and therefore also know in what environment such a thing can happen. We're in constant contact. I can only encourage everyone to give all this support to the Islamic Austrians, including those people who are in this religious community who believe that religion is an occasion for violence. The Islamic Law has turned a lot to improve for us. Nevertheless, it is still not possible to ban the preaching of hatred from the Internet – and if they are no longer seen in Austria, they can still be seen abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need very important measures, including legislative measures, especially in the so-called social media, which are qualified as technical services or as intelligence services, that they are considered media. It is only then, if a European directive qualifys it as a media, that it is possible to take action against media law. And then, at the end of the day, all these issues would be much better handled for us. I think it is an important reason for us to be able to present a security package to Parliament today and thus to the public by the Heads of Government. I would also like to ask Parliament to accept it in this form, because at the end of the day these key challenges will only be dealt with by legislative measures which have already been adopted. all were addressed by my previous speaker, can be mastered in order to get really possible instruments in hand, police nature, but also overall social nature, in order to shape the second phenomenon, migration, for Austria in the form that we can fulfill our humanitarian orders on the one hand and on the other hand we can also speak about security needs and an undivided society. I think that if we see the situation on the labour market, in particular the rising unemployment of foreigners looking for work in Austria, when we see the situation in schools where there are 42 000 extraordinary students, when we see the situation in the health field and finally also in the development of crime, we must be clear that we must limit the move, this immigration policy in the form of the fact that migration has clear limits in order not to overshadow our social system, our social system, our education system. This is due to these measures. On the other hand, it is very important – and it will soon be presented here with the Foreign Rights Change Package for parliamentary treatment – that we do everything we can to get illegal residents to leave Austria. It is unthinkable for us that the rule of law has such gaps that people turn the long nose of the rule of law. In an intensive and open discussion, I am trying not to lose sight of this large framework building in the Constitution and, finally, in the rule of law of Austria, so that we can give back to our fellow countrymen the sense of security they deserve, those who maintain this state in its function and who should be able to make living together in common. I am looking forward to an intensive discussion, not only in the present hour, but also when the government programme is presented, because that, I believe, is a milestone for a secure future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10936	For all other speakers in the current hour, the Rules of Procedure provide for a speaking time of 5 minutes. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e10961	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Amon, thank you never enough. I would like to express our common thanks to all those responsible for Austrian security, whether police, soldiers or judicial authorities, to all of us today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hagen.]] Let me also take up a point made by Mr Amon: Yes, we are still one of the safest countries, but I also believe that we must take account of today's threat scenarios. I believe that our population, that the Austrians, all in Austria, have a right to make their lives as secure as they can. Mr Federal Minister, I am very much with you, when you say that security is a large area, far beyond the classical security area. I believe that it is really a question of society that we too Invoking – as has been said – that not everyone looks away, but that one must also engage in democracy, in our values, in an open society and stand up for it. That's not a question at all. I think that the Austrian Federal Government – and this House too – has already made important decisions in the past on the way to an efficient police work, but also for the courts, that the government has also recognised that, if we want to, we should not allow those who come to us for various reasons – and I would like to express immediately, those who need our solidarity assistance to receive them – to remain there, that this, our system can be exploited. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why numerous measures are needed, ladies and gentlemen. Whether it is a question of organised crime, of towing, of trafficking in human beings, of all these questions, it is: We must, because these organizations are, of course, equipped with the last state of technology, we must take action against it and oppose it accordingly. I think we have made good decisions in the past. I only recall the discussions on the State Protection Act, here in plenary, in the rounds of negotiations and in the Committee. My colleague Pilz, I remember how you said it was your most beautiful defeat. So similar you have formulated it, because the content of the law is of course good. The few points that we did not agree with might have been achieved – or perhaps we could still do so in the future. But this shows that we always have the concerns of people in the focus and always try to deal with the rule of law here, of course, with all the control mechanisms that exist. I don't think there's anything against that, because we always had consensus. If the courts take decisions on delicate measures when we are trying to develop and expand the legal protection institutions, if we are really trying to put the measures at the heart of time for our police officers, then I believe that we always have the rule of law, the data protection in mind and had it. It's not about everything being stifled, how often it's formulated. That is what I am saying in all clarity. This work programme now shows that we want to further develop these points. I believe that it is in the interests of our citizens – the Minister has mentioned it – to do something in the area of integration. This is a great contribution to this; so far this area goes. I believe that at the parliamentary level, in the Committee and, of course, in the plenary session, we will have a proper and, I hope, very successful debate on these issues. I only have one request, Minister: We have repeatedly pointed out this over the past few months and said that there are organizational measures, there are human resources, there are structural measures, everything okay, but we must also pay great attention to the fact that we are also able to train those colleagues we are taking up, especially as regards the E2a area. These are the commanders who serve with the boys outside. That's my concern. In this sense, I am looking forward to an interesting and very successful discussion at the parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11031	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11054	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is an issue that is at the forefront of people in our country, from young to old. If I say young, I can also welcome a group that has arrived a long way: Students of the New Middle School in Blons from the Great Walsertal. Welcome here in Parliament! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Club of the Austrian People's Party has chosen this topic for the current hour before the Federal Government could still decide on this comprehensive security package which we will discuss at a later date. Why? I have already said it: because security is not only at the top of the Austrians when it comes to their concerns and concerns, but also with us in our work here in Parliament. We want to see in the list of capitals in which terrorist attacks have taken place, which unfortunately have become longer and longer, whether in London, Paris or Berlin, even in the future Vienna will not appear. That not only Vienna is not affected by such attacks, but also no other place in Austria, we work for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The danger is, of course, given in the arrest of this 17-year-old, who confesses to the IS, on the 20th century. January this still young year. That's what we've got on the 26th. January saw – our security spokesman Werner Amon has already mentioned it – when 14 arrests were taken in Graz and Vienna in a large coordinated action. This shows us that we must be defensive. The German Federal Constitutional Court has stated several times that, in the context of constitutional possibilities, one of course also has the right to sit down to the Wehr, to go to the limits of what is reasonable. With the package we have agreed to in this work programme for Austria, we use the legal possibilities, because what we lack, but what would be the much better solution, are, of course, European solutions. If the European Union were to create what its task would be to protect the EU's external borders in such a way that hundreds, thousands of people do not come to Austria, yes, then we could save ourselves some national legal measure. But if the European Union does not succeed, we are all the more required to act in good time at national level. And that is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're not just talking, we're doing something. This shows how in other areas it is about what we are willing to spend more money for. If you look at the budget for this year, please note that it was Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling, who in the negotiations has provided €440 million more resources to the Interior, so that it can equip the staff accordingly so that it can equip the executive. But also the Ministry of Defence, which works closely with the Ministry of the Interior on these issues, has an increase of € 246 million in the budget for this year. This money is really invested in times like this, ladies and gentlemen. We say: As far as our values are concerned, there is zero tolerance in us if some believe that you can avoid these values. We say quite clearly – and this is now clearly illustrated in the Integration Act, which is adopted –: In addition to the legal order, we expect that the Austrian culture of everyday life is accepted by those who come to us; therefore also by us this clear yes to the prohibition of full veiling. This was important to us to say to those who think of anti-companies: Not with us, not with us! The same applies to the Qur'an distribution by Salafists. We will take appropriate measures – we have already put in place measures, I am thinking of the State Protection Act that we have already adopted – in order to make it quite clear that security is at the top of our agenda. I am glad that the Federal Government has taken such far-reaching decisions together. We are on a good path, and I also ask the opposition parties to support us.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11131	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11162	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The opposition parties are asked to support?- Oh, my God! – If I am thinking of your measure of full veiling, if I am thinking of the idea of the shackle for danger, then I have to say that you really had to accept years ago, months ago, free and other opposition applications, then we would have to go on. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar]] But so far you have politics – let's just look back to 2015 –: Break up, eyes close!, persecuted. That's what you've dominated so far, and now you're in the situation that you think you can't control some things. Especially from the series of the ÖVP – Klubobmann Lopatka just said it – it is to be heard: Well, if the EU fails and does not do something, then we must take care at national level! – Am I suddenly listening to Öxit sounds from you? Is it possible for this EU to fail with our Minister of Europe to send this miracle weapon to Brussels? Do you suddenly think that the European Union could fail? What kind of sound do we hear? - That's incredible what we're getting here now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otto Pendlhat said that our system could not be exploited. - Wrong! Our system can be exploited considerably. It must not be exploited, that is the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is possible is that the mass immigrants who come to Austria illegally lead us to the asylum authorities, to the BFA and so on every day, by concealing everything with the discard of documents and de facto there. Zero immigration, zero illegal mass immigration – this is only possible if our motto is: Limits, because our European friends do not keep their borders closed. Therefore, such events as Afghans against Chechens also occur... [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't you have any friends in Europe? In Russia!]] – Would you like to start with the Russian sanctions now? Do you prefer to ride Austria more deeply into economic depression with your listeningness to what is prescribed to us?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just put in a bit of an economic sense yourself, that is not forbidden at the ÖVP! So: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are indeed many friends in Austria, but I think your friends who are now addressing you may be the Afghans and the Chechens who deliver their folkloristic knives on the Westbahnhof every day. – We don’t want that, but you’re watching it! We don't need this kind of folklore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, yes, it's right!]] – Yes, Mr Wöginger, wonderful; next word, you are on it! What did you write into your new program? – Given the high likelihood of staying in asylum seekers, integration must begin. Who is he who has a high probability of survival? – The highest probability of survival is that of the one who destroyed his passports and denied his identity, for we will not get rid of them. Or: Where are the return agreements with Chechnya and with Afghanistan, Minister of the Interior? Where is the Foreign Minister when it comes to return agreements? Where is Minister Kurz to negotiate return agreements with Chechnya and with Afghanistan, where do the largest groups come from and become criminal? Now to this 17-year-old terrorist suspect whose case has also been described here: I only know the individual case medially, and it has been reported that this 17-year-old has been in an Austrian judicial institution for a year and a half. If you know that you will only be fined at the age of 14, if you know that the threat of punishment for minors is reduced to half, then this 17-year-old must have employed something for which a full criminal Austrian would have been forced to arrest for three years. The circumstances for conditional dismissal or otherwise I do not know in this case either, but the fact is: Something must have happened already that a just over 14-year-old has been imprisoned for so long. And you make us know that in the prisons everything is done against radicalization? – That’s the striking evidence that everything doesn’t work there. We want people in this country to feel safe. When parents send their son to Vienna to look at a football match and he arrives by train from Horn on the Praterstern, I want these parents not to be afraid. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] If a daughter travels from St. Pölten to Vienna to listen to a pop concerto in the Stadthalle, and arrives at the Westbahnbahnbahnhof, I would like their parents not to be afraid that they will be exposed to these “folkloristic detours” – under quotation marks – that end up with knife technology, harassment and much worse with regard to women and girls. I want this to stop and the parents don't have to be afraid of their children, and that's your responsibility, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11258	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11280	Madam President. Federal Minister! For Otto Pendl, every day Thanksgiving Day is what I think is wonderful. Much less wonderful, however, I find this security package. Mr. Federal Minister, I am starting with a measure – I could also take another one – with the foot shackle. The only thing we know now under the government agreement is that you are demanding a footstool for feet. But you can't say who these feet belong to. They say it's about abstract hazards. That means it's about someone who hasn't done anything about someone who doesn't plan anything to threaten someone who's abstractly threatened. Could you, Minister of the Interior, tell us in concrete terms what an abstract hazard is? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:The Lord Pilz!]] I have a presumption, a concrete presumption, that the abstract hazard is someone who commits a crime of opinion, perhaps a Salafist hater. We have Salafist Hassprediger in eight Graz mosques – that is what the Constitutional Protection knows. I personally do not understand to this day that they still have residence permits in Austria, but that is another chapter. [[Abg. Wheelers: You never learn to do this!]] If you are now pursuing these Salafist Hasspredigers in eight Graz mosques for persuasion crimes, do you really want them to wear foot shackles? [[Abg. Wheelers: (in relation to Fig. Pilz) He's living in a sublime world!]] And what do you do with the other hate preachers, for example, those who post unfathomable things every day, especially on the website of the Freedom Party? Feet for hate posters? Feet of identity, for the preparedness of the right-wing scene? – Where do you start, where do you stop? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to know more precisely, ladies and gentlemen, then I will become more concrete, then I will talk about concrete dangers! ==References== April 2016 our Green Party headquarters in Graz has been attacked by identities. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] This attack came from the so-called Hackher Centre in Graz. These premises have been rented by a certain Mr. Sickl, a protector of the far-rightly violent identities, to the identitarianly violent right-wing extremists. [[Abg. Haider: Then take a look at how our people are being attacked by you! Look at this!]] He candidates in 12th place of the Graz municipal council. – Should a municipal council in Graz wear a foot shackle in the future? How is this, abstract or concrete, Mr. Interior Minister? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: Video surveillance. – Do you really want the video systems of ÖBB, from Asfinag, to be switched from large department store chains online to the police? [[Abg. Wöger: What's the problem?]] Do you really want a live streaming from public places to the surveillance centers of the Austrian police? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Then we finally have your friends on the picture that will ruin the city center again the next weekend!]] Has You once asked Scotland Yard what happened there? – According to a public report by Scotland Yard, total monitoring of the London population has proved to be a total fiasco. It simply doesn't work because it needed thousands of police who are constantly sitting in front of the live stream and watching how unspoiled and unsuspecting Austrian subways drive. [[Abg. Kickl: I'd be interested in who put all our posters together!]] Do you know what it's all about? – The FPÖ has forced the ÖVP into this security package, the ÖVP has forced SPÖ, and a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor is now putting himself and trying to sell it to us. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is about a great deal of discussion between misunderstood security policy... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Fear of the FPÖ!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Madam President, I do not know exactly why the Members of the Liberals are yelling so much when we talk about one of their greatest successes, namely: to force the SPÖ to have their security policy. Let me conclude by saying: It is about the mass surveillance of our fundamental values, about our freedom, about the foundations of our democracy and the rule of law. There are dangers to our security, from Salafists to Right-wing Extremists, which we want to pursue, and there are dangers to our freedom and our open society, and at the head of this threat is unfortunately the Minister of the Interior. This is an unsustainable state for me, and I particularly urge the colleagues in Social Democracy to have freedom, our citizens' rights, our fundamental rights...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11456	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11471	to defend against the superfluous security policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11499	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11520	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! My personal sense of security tells me that we deal with security almost every hour, this time not at the request of the FPÖ, but at that of the ÖVP that wants to do the business of the FPÖ. Last week, the Linz IMAS Institute published a survey on the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population. The results say – as so often – that around two thirds of the Austrians feel very or some sort of safe from crimes and crimes. 30 percent do not think the situation so or at all, and a clear majority even suspects that the crime rate has increased. In contrast, as you know, official statistics, which show the rate of crime as relatively stable, in some areas have even been reduced, in other segments such as small crime or legal radicalism as increased. So there is a discrepancy between feeling mood and actual security. The Of course, security is also strongly influenced by reporting, on the one hand also through refugee crisis, on the other hand by terrorism. And only because I say these two things in one sentence does it not yet mean that there is a causality, as others – including you, Mr Minister – understand it. They have said that we must withdraw from terrorism and migration – I think – or anything that prepares the soil for it, and – as the FPÖ likes to do – we have mixed these two terms together. Of course, the videos we see make terrorism and violence more immediate. Reporting in the classical media and other channels meets us unfiltered. I would like to focus on the so-called jackpot of the Minister. Jackpot sounds like he'd won his planned measures in a gambling game, so he's gotten more or less powerless. I wonder why these plans are now being presented again. The terrorist attacks in France and Belgium would have given enough reason to take timely action. But now in Vienna a 17-year-old has been arrested as a terrorist suspect, and in response, a number of old new measures are being presented which are primarily intended to promote the surveillance structure. – A coincidence, a random coincidence? Mr Amon explained what the instruments were: Stock data storage new, video surveillance, registration of value cards, identification monitoring and so on and so on. I just wonder what demands we would have to hear in an actual attack in Austria. Terror threat is not a new threat, and we will have to live even longer with an increased risk situation. And one thing is clear: There is no 100% protection against terrorism. Security measures must always be balanced and must not restrict the freedom of citizens over a fee, because then terror has won. [[Abg. Wheelers: on the subject!]] . I am on the subject, Mr Rädler, more than all the speakers in your group. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] In particular, security measures must have an actual added value and not just an alibi. However, this added value is not always recognizable. There is no comprehensive evaluation of the monitoring measures – which we always demand – an overall monitoring account, which sets the costs in relation, especially the costs of freedom that we bear in part by introducing new instruments. As an example, I want to take out video surveillance. What does video surveillance actually bring? Will this prevent terrorist attacks? – In the case of suicide offenders, this is probably not very relevant, and there are actually already experiences about the very thinr success of this video surveillance. The police themselves see little benefit in video surveillance in relation to effort. The technical installations are expensive in the acquisition, are expensive in operation, bind resources. In Vienna 17 locations were monitored, at 15 locations the video surveillance facilities were dismantled because they did not bring the desired benefits. Now the Minister of the Interior even wants to privatize this video surveillance – he wants to take private companies into account and transfer the costs to them, so to speak – combined with a post-war mentality that he has already mentioned, according to which people who carry a TV into their homes, perhaps even two if they can afford two. This does not help, as does the social media infrastructure into a medium, nor does it help any more than an Islam law that has been pumped. This Islamic law, by the way, gives the Islamic community a claim for general representation, and a claim of general representation means nothing more than that Salafism, for example, is also represented by the IGGÖ. You should talk to the IGGÖ in this respect. Whoever has nothing to hide has nothing to fear, my people. – That’s nonsense, of course! Everyone has something to hide, namely his privacy. Freedom...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11561	Mr deputies, you must now come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11576	I come to the conclusion: The freedom to live an individually self-determined life is bound by an observation-free privacy. Mass surveillance leads to nothing more than self-censorship.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11603	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11627	Madam President. High house! We have heard from the government today that security is a human right. – Yes, that is true, security is a human right, but security is also a duty of government. The government has a duty to ensure security. Funnyly, the government has done exactly what now leads to these problems: The government has not provided security, but the government has caused the problem we are seeing now, because of a fact that has been behind for some time now, when a few thousand refugees, so-called refugees, have been standing at our borders, and one has simply removed the flags. You've just gotten everyone soaked up, just let everyone in – you've been breaking the law. Today's chancellor has committed himself as a nationally legitimated towman and has transported the refugees in his trains towards Germany, where they have been taken in with open arms, where 600 000 refugees have simply been taken on the basis of the record. There was no one talking, it was simply filled out: Yes, I am from Syria, yes, I am being persecuted, and asylum has already been granted. 600,000 people – you have to imagine that! In Austria, too, you just kept an eye on the first swing. The background – I have to say it again today, because not everyone knows – is that the European Union has decided to leave 17 million people to Europe. It was precisely this circumstance that this wave was due. But you didn't act with your house mind and ask: What have all those young men who have come, for in recent years, have they done in the war zones? We are always talking about those who go to the war zone, fight and come back there, and about how dangerous they are. But someone has already asked the question: What did someone who lived for many, many years in the war zone as a young, defensive man and then suddenly moved to Austria until then? Did he perhaps fight on one side or on the other? – That’s exactly what we have now. That is because no one asked, because no one has looked at it exactly, we now have twelve years old who have been radicalized. The question is: From whom? – These are exactly those people who have come to us who simply do not accept us as a culture, our religion and our way of life. That's the problem. When we talk about freedom of religion: They always want to explain to me: Yes, these radical Muslims come here, and we will then provide them with jobs and talk to them for so long until they are temperate and want to live with us. – Faith You really do? Try on Sunday morning when it is ringing at the door and someone from Jehovah’s Witnesses is standing at your door to convince him that he is on the wood road! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's an ascent command. Just as little can you convince a radical Muslim that he is on the wood road. I can't! The difference is that Jehovah’s Witnesses are not dangerous. For example, if someone has a noodle sieve on his head or hugs a tree, that's private matter. Religion is private, but if someone comes to us like the radical Muslims and does not see it as a private matter, but does not accept our laws, wants to convince us of the true faith and goes on saying: If you don't convert, you've lost your life, it'll be dangerous. That is why freedom of religion ceases where it poses a danger to all. It will be theirs. This is the point we need to work out. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. New builder.]] That is why we should look more closely. It's a very simple thing: You just have to sit down and ask yourself: What about women's rights? How do you see the law of God and of man? Talk to a strict Muslim! He says there is no law over the law of God. I don't care what Parliament decides, because there is only the law of God! – Do you think you can integrate such a person into a democracy? Faith You really do? If you believe the constitutional protection experts, then more than a thousand radical Muslims are in Austria. The dark number is probably even higher. In addition, there are 94 000 illegals, of which we know virtually nothing. These are the problems we need to take care of. Now there's a work program that you'll take care of the Freeman movement. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You have to let that break on your tongue! There are radical Salafists in the country who as a culture do not accept us as a society, and you are concerned about a few freemen who do not want to pay taxes that live in the forest and have now also established a party – as I have heard –. You're worried about that? [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] You really don't need to worry about that. What we have to worry about is whether you, as Minister of the Interior, are doing what you yourself have said, namely ensuring security, because that is indeed a human right.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11706	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11738	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the topic of the current hour is more up-to-date than ever – that's why it's the current hour – and I think security in Austria is an essential aspect of it. I think that the Federal Government has now agreed with the work programme it has given itself to complement the old government programme we have had since 2013 and to adapt it to the time horizons that we now need to implement the necessary measures. These measures are also accompanied by concrete timetables, and I really think it is positive that we have decided to move forward in this area. The focus is on social security, but also on social justice. The essential aspects of social security and social justice are the fight against unemployment and job growth so that people themselves can survive. On the other hand, it is economic growth, which then again allows us to take different measures with tax revenue. Under social justice, I also understand that people who come here – for whatever reason – and if they have the opportunity and if there is the prospect that they can stay here in the country, they can provide German knowledge as soon as possible. But that also means: Knowledge of the German language means a basis for living together, a basis for working life and a basis for self-sustainability. These are the essential aspects that we need for a common, safe and social co-existence in Austria. One of the most important aspects of my opinion is a uniform concept of integration. You all know this in your everyday life, when you discuss something, you have a term for something, and everyone understands something else. I believe it is important to understand that we define what integration really means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Does this mean absorbing into society, or does it mean accepting someone who lives his way of life but does not limit anyone else? The mandatory year of integration, which has already been proposed by our Secretary of State, really seems to me to be one of the essential steps we can take in favour of social security. Another important aspect is the right to language courses. The Foreign Minister will still be required to make these language courses available to the extent that they are sufficiently available not only in large cities but also in the federal states. The great chapter of internal security, however, is – many points have already been made today, and whether it has already been called by Mr Amon, Mr Pendl or by one of the other colleagues – the monitoring of the hazards. I believe it is important that, in cases of the returnees who have been able to lock up from the right to date, now – but always blessed by a court – the relief of the footbands will be applicable. To register the prepaid cards: We all know that many who want to commit crimes obviously do not have registered phone value cards. Yes, it is an approach, a step in the right direction, that this should be foreseen. The registration of the border car markings shall be carried out for multi-track vehicles in which border controls are carried out. The possibility exists now, as the identification devices are present. [[Abg. Neubauer: Only it has to be done!]] There are many variants of the loophole, such as the possibility of monitoring Internet-based communication. That's a gap, because these things haven't happened many years ago. That is why I am convinced that these things are positive. In my opinion, it is important to equip the police, the colleagues of the Austrian Federal Army, who are responsible for internal security, with modern equipment so that they can work effectively and efficiently. At the same time, we know how difficult it is to deal with illegal migrants. In this respect, I believe that as long as Europe does not offer a common European solution, we must make national proposals. In my opinion, it is also an essential point to push forward the Federal Government's programme in such a way that the people who live and live here in Austria need not be afraid that there would be no internal security. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] At the same time, however, it is also important – and this is my final sentence, Madam President – that people who do not recognize our values here in the present time have to leave this country again. This is up to us, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11790	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11812	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! In politics, despite all the planning, we are never sure of surprises; and I do not mean now that our Federal Government has agreed on the Convention of Labour to all unconventions. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I am talking about surprises such as the collapse of the East Block from 1989 onwards. No one has expected this; no one has thought it possible a short time ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Since 1980... June stood on the road!]] This also concerns the refugee current, which surprised us in 2015. Central and Eastern Europe – all were torn in this refugee shelter. What was happening at the borders was improvised, sometimes chaotic, and it caused a lot of fear among our citizens. As soon as possible in a rule of law, we have responded and put in place measures. Foreign Minister Kurz has caused the closure of the Balkan route. We have thus strengthened border controls in the south and east of the country. We have used the federal army and made it clear that we do not allow chaos and disorder. It is not supposed to come back to a race by refugees like 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] There are limits that are to be respected – in fact as well as in terms of content – and this, of course, requires legal adjustments, because one thing I would like to say quite clearly: Our weapon against terror can only be the rule of law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government's work programme, the security programme sets the right course. Mr Pilz knows exactly what the difference between an abstract and a concrete hazard is; and so let me say: The danger and the jihad returnees will now be given the opportunity to use, in addition to the arrest, the electronic footbands – that is very important to me, and I stand here as a representative of the rule of law – after judicial approval. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever has become conspicuous must be monitored, for it is important to suffocate attacks in the germ. [[Abg. Pilz: Does this apply to the liberals?- Oh, my God!]] - Of course. [[Cheerful with Greens and Team Stronach.]] In the face of a specific suspicion! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Mr Pilz, I did not understand this call first. [[Abg. Pilz: You answered well!]] [[Abg. Lugar: The answer was interesting!]] Telecommunications data should also be able to be stored longer in the event of a suspected situation, we have discussed the topic of Quick Freeze for a long time in this house. But there is also clear: Only in the event that the initial suspicion becomes hardened can the prosecution order a quick freeze by judicial decision. I believe that this is very important, because the legal protection and the rules we are planning here also guarantee fundamental rights in the sense of personal freedom. In Austria, there will be no surveillance state à la George Orwell’s ‘1984’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] But we must also close the gaps that arise on the Internet. For information channels such as WhatsApp or Skype, which serve the criminal and terrorist elements, we must also clearly have the opportunity to monitor them. Our security authorities need appropriate tools. The Austrians have a right to maximum safety. [[Abg. Maurer: You also have a right to fundamental rights!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen in the attacks in Paris, Nice and Berlin how quickly the terrorists are moving. We need opportunities to understand where these people are and how fast they are going their ways. In the event of an occasion, we have to rely on systems such as the recording of the markings, but also on the video recordings. Because it was discussed earlier: There will be sensible solutions to cooperation with ASFINAG and the ÖBB – well, thank God! – because there are data that we urgently need in case of a case. One thing is clear to me: The terrorists are supposed to have no room in Austria in the future. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Something else is important: In addition to Islamist terror, we must not overlook those who are trying to challenge our state from within. These anti-state movements, an ignorance of the state of having rights, but not taking on any duties, cannot exist. We say to these non-governmental objectors the fight, and there will be appropriate regulations there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: These are problems, really!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are no good words to help secure Austria. Against terrorism and insecurity, only appropriate laws and effective security measures help – and we do so! This is what citizens in Austria can rely on. Our work programme, our new, complementary work programme, is our mission for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e11987	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12008	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz! You should rather take care of the violent randalists who meet us every year at the academic ball that belongs to most of your party! You should worry about their democratic attitude! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the Greens.]] Federal Minister! The new government programme contains many proposals which we do not, in principle, reject. We will be very serious about them, and we liberals will also ensure that we can support reasonable proposals that you make. However, you have asked the question in your contribution, as it may be, that a twelve-year-old or a 17-year-old who lives in our society for years is suddenly being radicalized. – Mr Federal Minister, I can give you the answer: With your party and also with your federal government, you face the ruins of your policy, the ruins of an integration policy that has not worked and which we have warned about for decades. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] You have to pay the bill today that we've been squandering citizenship for decades. You – and therefore all of us – today have to pay the bill for mass immigration, which you have approved. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is not, Mrs Steinacker, that this is like a Nature event over Europe has broken into place. No, there have been European states that have opposed it and which have helped the right to break through, namely those who first complied with the Dublin agreements and, secondly, that your Federal Government is legally sloppy, Minister of State, have clearly distinguished between immigration and asylum. This must also be done by the Austrian Federal Government. You must distinguish between immigration and asylum! Whoever travels to our Republic, to our country, Mr. Federal Minister, that's what we decide alone, the Republic of Austria decides. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As regards asylum, Minister of State: Her party had a light moment about a year ago when you wanted to help break through the principle of asylum on time in the Federal Government. You were right at the time: Asylum is basically a right to time, in principle hostel on time, and then, if the asylum ground is to be lost, these people have to return to their home countries. This is the actual fall of this federal government, Minister of State. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tragedy is, you persist in sin. You do not repent by finally bringing about a legal clarification of this situation, but you insist on this mistake. You should also speak clear words with regard to the upper limit on asylum, Mr Federal Minister. In its distress, the Federal Government has referred to an asylum limit of 37 500. I don't know if you've been a minister back then. - No, it wasn't you. 37 500 – as you have come to this number, no one knows in this Republic; and when the Federal Chancellor gave a speech a few days ago, you and your party have come to think of halving this upper limit of asylum to 17 000 or 17 500. That is just as unclear, Mr Federal Minister, as you have come to this number. These are numbers of people, Mr. Federal Minister, who always want to sell us with Schwindelies and who make us know...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12080	Mr President, I would ask you to be a little too moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12102	Thank you, Madam President. – These are figures, Minister of State, which you do not seriously mean. You also told us that in 2016 only 36 030 asylum applications that fall into this highest number had been processed – 36 030! Mr. Federal Minister, do you think we can take this for a cash? – You have not mentioned what has been postponed in relation to this highest number in 2017, nor have you included those Dublin cases that should have been passed on to other European countries, but which the persons concerned have not left but are illegally located in our Republic, Minister of State. In short: In reality, this figure, Mr Federal Minister, has been exceeded. In reality, this number has been exceeded! [[Federal Minister Sobotka: The asylum application is not illegal!]] Federal Minister! They should also establish a return mechanism in the area of asylum. I am always saying this to your colleague in brief: If I ask him why he is not also Minister of Return, but only Minister of Integration, he always puts responsibility on you. That is why I now ask you, Minister of State Sobotka: Who is responsible in what form in the Austrian Federal Government for the need for these people who have received asylum here and who are to be treated decently here, but who will have to return to their home countries if the reason for asylum is lost? Who in the Federal Government is preparing this, and who is publicly speaking out loud and clear?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12139	You must now come to your conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12161	Thank you. – Minister of State! What we can see is symptom treatments. But we believe that you have to go to the root of the problem. You should finally make politics for the Republic of Austria and for the interests of its people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12188	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12209	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery! I am now particularly addressing the young people who are visiting us today, and, of course, all those who follow in front of the television screens of our discussion. If we want to prevent terrorism – and I assume that we all want it here – then we have to fight, above all, the world of thought that leads to terror. [[Abg. Lugar: You can't fight a world of thoughts! That doesn't work with the greens either!]] – I mean a world of thought consisting of ideologies of inequality, whether it be fundamentalist Salafists or racist-Völkian right-wing extremists. This world of thought expresses that some people are more valuable than other people, that some people have a right to life and other people do not have this right of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I repeat: These ideologies of inequality share Salafists with extremes of law, and therefore these ideologies of inequality must be fought if we are seriously interested in the fight against terrorism, and I say again: I assume that we are all! If I look at the fact that of the € 290 million for the so-called security package decided two years ago by the Federal Government, 5 percent are not intended for the prevention of extremism, I would like to stress: If we want to take ourselves seriously when we hold a current hour in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention of terrorism, we must finally take the prevention of extremism seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do I mean by extremism prevention? – I mean, for example, political education as a subject for all students. For example, I mean an ethics lesson for all students to discuss in school: What are our common ethical, democratic values that we share? What keeps us together as a society? What does it mean to live in a democracy in contrast to a dictatorship? What are my rights and obligations as citizens in this country, as a member of this society? [[Abg. Kickl: What kind of ethics is that?]] Prevention in prisons is also very important and necessary. It has started with appropriate measures, but these are not enough in the case of weitems. We must uphold our democratic values, namely our common democratic values, that every human being is born equal to dignity and rights, that every member of our society is worth the same thing that human dignity is innate to every human being. These values must not be questioned for any human being, no matter what roots, what passport, what colour of skin, what faith this person has. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That not all can live in Austria, but is also clear!]] When we talk about combating terrorism, we should finally take terrorism prevention and prevention of extremism seriously in every direction. We need immunization against extremism and against terror through living democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Many colleagues share with me the experience, all of us and, as I believe, at least many of us, regularly participate in the democracy workshop of Parliament. [[Abg. Lugar: Is the fight against terrorism?]] There we discuss with young people, with students, students, apprentices, gymnasiasts, gymnasiasts, but also with people's students, students, what it means to live in a democracy, stressing that this democracy is all we are and that we must defend it together, both against fundamentalist Salafists and against right-wing extremes. Because democracy... [[Abg. Hoebart: How so?]] [[Abg. Kickl: We don't need to worry about left-wing extremes, they don't exist!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I understand that the FPÖ is becoming very nervous on the subject of democracy! When I look at the... – Mr Rosenkranz, thank you many times for proving, with your constant and aggressive calls, that level is not a face cream. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We will give you time to speak so that our results will be better!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Every speech from you brings us 3%!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We will give you speaking time!]] - So much to the High House. So much for the discussion style. I would like to assure the young people on top of the gallery: This is not a normal discussion culture, even in the House! We all try to respect each other, because that means democracy, that is our common values. Again: I'm glad you're here!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12382	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12404	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! I'd say, The jubilees on this security package, which is part of the government programme, are at least a little early. There is now a suggestion as to how to somehow monitor danger, so people who return from jihad with a foot shackle. – I understand the intention behind it, and I am convinced that there is a need for action and that we really have a problem here that we must become lord. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The question is: The government programme speaks of the foothold as a ‘reduced means’ compared to the U-port, when the U-port is not applicable. However, it is still not clear to whom this footband should really be applied. It's true: A footcuff is a relief agent as a U-port. But it is absurd if it says that this means should only be applied if there is no concrete risk potential but an abstract hazard potential. – What exactly this is supposed to be, nobody knows yet! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That means we don't know at all who you want to put that footband on. If anyone returns from the jihad and has committed a crime, then he shall of course return to U-port. But where you want to do it exactly, that's not clear! I'm already looking forward to how you're going to implement this legistically. What you have to see positively is that at least a court should decide in this regard. In the last two or three years, it was rather rare that you also wanted to involve judges. That's supposed to be missing now. – I am positive in this respect because I cannot imagine a court that will restrict a fundamental right of freedom due to an abstract potential for danger. That's why I'm glad that there are courts there at all! The question is also what you want to do with it. I mean, the purpose of this whole thing is, of course, to prevent terrorist attacks. I dare to doubt whether a potential suspect will be hindered by a footstool. I think we have better resources anyway. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Please? – A potential is always abstract, that’s right. [[Abg. Kickl: A potential is always abstract, even a concrete potential is abstract!]] I just wonder how this is supposed to work, or whether it is rather a symbol that is being brought back into the debate. – Let’s wait for the legal implementation! I would ask you, Minister of the Interior, to see that we are not just offering fundamental and freedom rights in this context, as in recent times, but that you put on the table a concrete proposal that can then be discussed further. I can't imagine what a constitutional design should look like, but we'll see it. The Quick Freeze you have proposed is, I say now, a progress compared to the inadequate data storage. In this context too, I am eager to see how you will make a truly fundamental-right proposal. If there is concrete evidence, there is a concrete suspicion and you really just want to save data in a very concrete way, then you can, I think, at least discuss it. Col. Steinacker referred to the Bundestrojaner again, she now wants to be monitored by WhatsApp and Skype. The problem here is just: Anyone who doesn't want to be monitored consciously has hundreds of thousands of other ways to communicate. There are so many encrypted ways to communicate. And because this Federal Trojan is just so absurdly illegal, the first draft has now been withdrawn. Now he is coming back to the debate, because it is somehow just right to propose something new again. I'm excited. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's it!]] – Mr Rädler finds it “good that”. Mr Rädler, you can find it 'good that', but that does not change the fact that certain things that you think are good are in principle contrary to our Constitution. That you like it is totally okay. I see this a little differently. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] The whole story is exciting with video surveillance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Rädler, I think you have called in earlier! On the matter of video surveillance, it was in the “Kurier” on Sunday that the Wiener police reassessed 15 of 17 cameras, which were set up last year, with the reason that it costs incredibly much and has no benefit. – But you are now selling us with your government program the longer storage time of any video surveillance measures than the great security package. You'd better be close to the police. Talk to the Vienna police, ask why that doesn't make sense! Or ask the London police! In London, which has been closely monitored, exactly 3 percent of the crimes recorded by video surveillance have been resolved due to video surveillance. The question is whether this really makes sense or whether this does not lead to a general prevention of all people. I think that's in the room. [[Abg. Wheelers: Every percent education is positive!]] Another topic of the current hour is migration. In addition, proposals have been made which I believe to be very good, particularly with regard to the intensification of return advice and the preparation of return programmes. All of this makes sense. We also know, however, that in order for states to take their families back, we also need appropriate return agreements. It is now up to the Foreign Minister – or I don't care if the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible – to: Some people will have to conclude the return agreement, otherwise we will be able to provide so much advice and return ideas, but the whole thing will not bring much. Finally, very briefly on the very large announced further assistance of the German army in the country: It is quite significant that I have to remind social democracy again and again why it has fought against it for decades. They have obviously forgotten once again why since the Civil War in Austria the SPÖ has clearly resisted the fact that the German army is taking on more and more domestic tasks. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Madam President. I'll be at the end of the sentence. It's significant, and it's absurd that you've got rid of it now, just so that the Minister of Defense can play a little bit of the interior minister. You should remember that again!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12505	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12526	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! You're apologizing to my voice: I had a small hacker attack by bacteria on my vocal cords, but we're in the process of recovery. Ladies and gentlemen! The title of the current hour today is, among other things, “responsible for security in Austria and Europe”. – Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I'm glad you realized that responsibility is to be borne here. Unfortunately, you have taken too little account of this responsibility so far, and that is why we are now in this mess. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that many important steps have been taken to date by this Federal Government and have not been taken. I will come back later in my speech to tell you where these focal points are everywhere. Federal Minister! What I think is positive about the new government programme is the shackle of danger. – I have been in Parliament for half a year and have been postponed in the Committee on the Interior in December. I think that's really necessary. Mr Pilz, however, unfortunately did not fully understand the meaning and purpose of the pedestal, I would recommend to him, at the club Request restart to ask how this footband works. A shackle greatly restricts the radius of the person it carries: This one is monitored, one can understand who he is dealing with and where he is going. For example, At risk there is no chance of preaching in the mosque because it is sitting at home and being monitored. – That’s the point, and I think that’s useful and necessary. We from the Stronach team recognized this much earlier, and I'm glad that the government is now swirling. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team and Mr Rädler.]] I would be pleased, Minister of State, if you also discussed another subject. You know my demand: For more than a year, I have had a request in this House for waiting camps in North Africa, for those who have to leave this country because they have not received asylum – because their request has been rejected or they have become criminalized here – and are not taken back by their home country so that they can be parked there. This means that these people will be taken to a camp in North Africa, whose doors are open and monitored and supervised by the corresponding State of the Contracting State. We thus automatically create jobs there, fewer people have to emigrate to Europe, because they have no job, and for us these people are outside the country. Let's look at the case of Berlin: If it had been done with this man who carried out the attack there, according to the rules I formulated in this request, then he would have already been parked in this North African camp and this attack could not have taken place in Berlin! Ladies and gentlemen! You see how necessary this step is! In the event that this is not the case with the EU, Mr Federal Minister, I have also prepared a request for you and the Foreign Minister to do so at bilateral level. Do that, that would be reasonable! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Here, too, the issue of discarding passports has already been addressed. Mr Rosenkranz said it quite correctly: Here come a lot of migrants who throw away their passport and then say that they are Syrians or whatever. It would, however, be relatively easy to understand where people come from. - Your cell phone never throws them away. Minister! So just take them off the phones, see where and with whom they've been calling, then you can find out where these people come from, that they're usually not Syrians and they're not there with good intentions. That would be easy to solve, and I think you would save a lot of costs for translators and experts who have to analyze the voices and the language to see if those really come from the country they call. That would save you a lot of tax money! That would be a reasonable measure that would be feasible. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me go further, I would like to address another issue: ‘Youth bands: ==References====External links== – This was a headline in the daily “Austria” last week. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take a look at how Vienna is divided in terms of drug trafficking, where Vienna is not an individual case. Take a look at Graz as it is in connection with the drug trade! In this regard, Vorarlberg is in Chechen's hand, in Styria it is the Africans, in Innsbruck the North Africans, and if we look at how the scene is divided in Vienna, Minister, then I can only say to you: They have done a lot of wrong in the past in the field of security, otherwise we would not have these conditions. If I look at the case yesterday in the U3, I would like to appeal to the teachers to inform the students a little. As a police officer, I tell you the following – and please write it behind your ears! –: If a young person, a twelve-year-old – we already have terrorist suspects at twelve years of age – is flying around in the subway with a softgun and even shoots off, and an armed police officer sitting in there shuts him off – I tell you how the facts are – then there are dead ones! Therefore, you should tell your students that such a thing is not suitable for a joke.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12588	Deputies! You must come to the end now!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12604	Thank you, Madam President. – I just want to tell the teachers that this is dangerous! Tell the students! This is not a joke, it is extremely dangerous for all who are affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12631	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12652	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of current issues The hour is the safety in Austria and Europe. – Security is very important for people and our country. As an example, I have once again considered the last safety report and found: The development in this regard is not reassuring and satisfactory at Weitem! There were fewer ads, but why were there fewer ads? - Because many companies say: We don't make ads anymore, for example, in a theft, because nothing comes out anyway. And if such a theft is cleared up and the Lord has nothing to do with the thief, then the injured one will look through his fingers again. I just remember the tractor theft in Lungau, Mr Eßl. Although the education rate has increased slightly, it is around 44 percent, but this is not satisfactory in the case of Weitem. On the contrary! One thing has to be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen: We have imported a large part of unemployment, but we have also imported a large part of the crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] – Mrs Colleague, that is so! There is an urgent need for action on foreign crime: You just need to look into the prisons with one eye, then you know what's going on. The security forces are doing great, thank you for that! Not even all of the police's planning stations can be occupied. The people in Austria have a right to security, the people in Austria have a right to internal and external security, but this EU has totally failed on the security issue, especially as regards the flow of refugees. That is why we need to take care of ourselves, and we need sufficient personnel in every respect. Those who do not comply with the laws and do not respect the rule of law have lost nothing in us, for these young people in the gallery also need a secure future. [[pointing to the visitors at the gallery]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12695	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12718	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! ‘Security in Austria and Europe’ means: The responsibility for security in both Austria and Europe has been and is being felt differently. With regard to Austria, both the Federal Government and state governments are responsible for the reduction of security through serious misevaluations and negligent harmonizations – a reduction of security, which is now becoming a permanent burden with the migration crisis and terrorist threat. The European Union must continue to face total failure. With a welcome culture from Germany and acquired from Austria, numerous refugees, including so-called sleepers, came to Europe as well as to our federal territory. The population has a right to security – security, which is now to be restored with considerable financial effort. Austria, surrounded by Member States of the EU or States that reject the withdrawal of asylum-seeking refugees, is therefore in the situation of having to tolerate non-azylene persons, with the number of illegal entry persons being considered to continue to be increasing. There are questions about the activities of tractors, of international and national organisations that have a lasting impact on the migration crisis in both the EU and Austria. In principle, asylum does not constitute a right to continue. Furthermore, it is necessary to distinguish strictly according to the actual refugees of war, economic refugees and radicalized persons who question our culture. There is therefore an acute need for action. Integration is largely not wanted and therefore described as a failure. In Austria, social benefits for persons with asylum status have to be distinguished from those of the local population. Monthly social benefits to those entitled to asylum or families with more than €5,000 are not inconceivable and attract only more economic refugees. An end to the migration crisis cannot be expected in the foreseeable future. The threat of terrorism will thus increase. The security of the domestic population is not in the EU's best interests, so that Austria or the Federal Government and national governments are invited to secure internal borders and to protect the Austrian population, autonomy, culture and economy sufficiently. A long-term reduction in security cannot be reversed in the short term. Trained staff as well as corresponding equipment are required, which is not available at a zero rate. With the strained financial situation, not least through international crises and a persistently high number of unemployed people, the costs for the consequences of mass immigration are already far beyond the limits of financial viability, so that a further move is to be stopped. asylum grounds shall be re-examined at shorter and regular intervals; Illegals, criminals and economic refugees must be postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12761	Next, Mr. Dr. Franz in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12785	Madam President. Minister! High house! The security package is basically okay once, but it is incomplete. What is missing is the definition of border closure, and without border closure, ladies and gentlemen, we are not getting around the problem, which is perfectly clear. You can't fix a water damage by constantly wiping up and never turning the main tap. That's elucidating, and, as I mean, that's what every Austrian already says to the house mind. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hagen and Mr Steinbichler on his report.]] We need an end to the illegal mass migration, and this is only possible if you are running a policy such as Viktor Orbán or like Donald Trump now, otherwise it will not work. We need an effective and efficient migration policy, we need a national policy for Austria and we need a patriotic policy for the Austrians. This is the premise that this House has to establish and that this executive, called the Government, has to implement. That, ladies and gentlemen, must be the first, the priority goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12821	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:46:36]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12842	We'll be up to date. European hours on the subject: "Current challenges in European transport policy: fair conditions on Europe's roads" I say goodbye to Minister of the Interior Mag. Sobotka and welcome Mr Verkehrsminister Mag. Light peace. The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour of Europe: SPÖ-Klub: Karoline Graswander-Hainz, ÖVP-Klub: May. Claudia Schmidt, FPÖ Club: Dr. Georg Mayer, Green Club: Mrs. Vice-President Mag. Ulrike Lunacekund NEOS Club: Dr. Angelika Mlinar. . I welcome the Members of the European Parliament in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The first contribution in this debate is from Mr Heinzl. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e12892	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I think we agree: A well-developed infrastructure is the backbone of the European Economic Area. We know that Austria as a transit country in the heart of our continent has a very special key role to play in this. Whether on the road, on the rail or on the water: numerous high-level international traffic routes, called TEN corridors, pass through our Austria. This very special situation in the heart of Europe, together with the fact that the Alps occupy much of the state territory, is a very special challenge for local infrastructure. Austria has begun to invest massively in the high-level rail network in 2007 – we know that in the decades before, these investments have actually been neglected in favour of expanding the road network. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The west axle from Vienna to Salzburg is almost complete; the extension of the South Railway and the Brenner line to other important European transport corridors is in progress. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Semmering train from Ritter von Ghega was rightly regarded as an absolute miracle of engineering some 170 years ago, but today to believe that it meets the requirements for a modern railway operation is naïve. Therefore, the expansion of the railway infrastructure is absolutely correct and necessary. The current framework plan states that by 2022 more than €2 billion will be used annually for the expansion of the railway infrastructure. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, and where does that come from?]] This contribution, Mrs. Dr. Moser, includes, of course, the Koralm, the Semmering and Brenner Base Tunnels. [[Abg. Moser:... pay!]] However, as you know, around 100 railway stations are being rebuilt and newly built, disability-friendly and also funded. [[New call of the abg. Moser.]] We invest in safety, in new technologies, in park-and-ride installations, in noise protection and so on. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we are also investing in sideways. For example, regarding my home district of St. Pölten, it is also to be read in the framework plan that the route between Herzogenburg and Krems is electrified. With these investments we secure Austria's economic location and create more than 40 000 jobs throughout Austria. [[Abg. Moser: You should say something to the toll! Toll!]] The balance sheet of the Austrian Federal Railways gives us the right: In 2016, the Austrian Federal Railways – Mrs. Dr. Moser, you are also an enthusiastic train driver, as we know; you will enjoy yourself – set up a new passenger train order. Sage and write 463 million passengers drove the train last year, which is 4 million passengers more than 2015. And we all, ladies and gentlemen, can rejoice: Austria is a railway driver country number one in the European Union. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Daughters.]] And what is very important, ladies and gentlemen, even economically, even if the 2016 balance sheet has not yet been presented: ÖBB CEO Andreas Matthae is already talking about a very good result that we can look forward to. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a political consensus of Austrian transport policy that freight transport and especially cross-country traffic should be relocated from road to rail. That is why Austria continues to express itself clearly against any kind of giant trucks – so-called gigaliners. We do not need a 25 meter long monster truck on our roads, as they have been approved in Germany since the turn of the year. We do not need, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to raise the maximum permissible tonnage, as some people still call for. Just one example: A normal 40-ton truck demands our roads as much as 160 000 cars. And, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we also do not need any additional burden on taxpayers by even more heavy trucks. What we need instead are fair and equal conditions for drivers and freight forwarders throughout Europe. We know that social dumping is going on and going on in this sector, and that must end. An honest entrepreneur, who pays for his drivers and does not manipulate them, currently has massive competitive disadvantages. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! That's a sharp misdevelopment. Europe needs the same standards for all. It takes game rules that prevent black sheep from doing their business at the expense of drivers and at the expense of honest freight forwarders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And – dear Mrs. Dr. Moser, you've already treated this with an intermediate call – because we already have the same rights for all on the subject, I don't mind addressing the German car toll. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Moser.]] No One, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, Germany's good right to equip its motorways and highways. The Germans will probably also need the money to clean up and improve their streets. But what must not be, ladies and gentlemen, is that the German drivers get back the prize of the Vignette at the same time and completely as a tax credit. What's going on is quite clear: It's a pure alien toad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] A pure foreign toad is clearly illegal in the EU and therefore, Mrs Colleague, is also opposed. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Moser.]] We call, ladies and gentlemen, in our criticism of the German toll on two key European Union festivals. First of all: Foreigners must pay, Germans do not – this is clearly discrimination for reasons of nationality – and secondly: It is discriminatory that Austrian entrepreneurs must pay the toll in full for their service-used cars, but not German. This is a violation of the free internal market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! European law applies equally to all, including Germany, and it cannot be that large countries can enforce their will at the expense of the small ones. I really must admit that I was very pleased that the European Commission, and in the front line, Commissioner Violeta Bulc, as the guardian of the Treaties, has so hit the side of Germany. Official Austria has always tried to find a compromise at all levels. This does not appear to be possible, so the next step must follow. That is, as soon as Germany has passed the relevant laws, Austria will take the preparations for the action before the European Court of Justice. The Czech Republic, the Netherlands and Belgium are also seriously considering a complaint against the EU's unlawful German car toll. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: On a parliamentary level, I have filed a petition against the German toll. It shall read as follows: "The representatives of the National Council stress that it is in principle at the discretion of the Federal Republic of Germany to introduce road user charges for road users. In any case, however, as well as in the Austrian vignette system, the basic rules, directives and laws of the European Union must be complied with. For this reason, MEPs are supporting the efforts of the Austrian Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, to ensure that, in the course of the introduction of the German car toll, there is no disproportionate disadvantage or disadvantage. Discrimination of Austrian drivers is coming.” I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this initiative on Parliament's homepage here in the House in the gallery and at home in front of the televisions. I would like to expressly ask you, Minister of State Mag. Lightenfried, thank you very much for the numerous initiatives you have taken against the illegal German motorway toll. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The combined forces of all, including us, will require that the EU's illegal German car tolls not enter into force. I am confident that at the end of the day the justice and not the right of the stronger will prevail.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13002	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13023	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A dream has grown out of the ruins of World War II: a dream of Europe, a dream of justice, of solidarity, of freedom, and visionary men and women of the time have tried to implement this dream. But it must also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that this dream must not have been fulfilled. This Europe, in which we now live, is a Europe in which nationalism flourishes again, is a Europe that is not just, is a Europe that is not solidarity, and is a different Europe than this dream was likely. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You know yourself professionally, but...!]] Most countries now live a principle of double membership, which means: If there's something to get, I'm on it, and if it's said to be solid, I'm not there. – This is probably not the Europe that was once remembered, and this is not good for us either, because a well-functioning, just Europe is of course also a good Europe for Austria. If it is called “fair conditions on Europe’s roads” in the title of today’s debate, it is likely that this situation on Europe’s roads, this situation in Europe’s transport policy is, as a whole, symptomatic of this Europe and is reflected in it. It would be more likely to think that the discussion should be held today under the title of “unfair conditions on Europe’s roads”. Mr Heinzl mentioned it: A large member country introduces a toll that is illegal in Europe, the current EU rules in the field of cabotage are regularly bypassed, workers' rights are trampled with feet, in the freight sector there are already more letterbox companies than real companies, wage and social dumping is no longer the exception, but the rule. – This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, unacceptable for reasons of principle and unacceptable, because it hinders our great traffic policy objective to shift from road to rail. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is the Social Minister then...?]] [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] If one is part of a community, ladies and gentlemen, and one can also believe that one does not want to be part of that community; that is legitimate, one has to comply with the rules that exist in this Community, and a toll that only foreigners pay is illegal and against European law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we in the European Union come to the situation that the strength of the law is no longer valid, but rather the right of the stronger, then this is not the Europe that has come out of this dream, but another Europe. The European Commission, as a guardian of the Treaties, would be required to intervene. If it does not – and it seems to have done so – then this Commission has failed, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to inform you about what has been done on this issue: We have forwarded our legal position to the European Commission, but have not yet received an answer. We have organized a first meeting of the neighbouring states, which has made it clear that we are not alone with our concerns. There have been several initiatives in the European Parliament, for which I am very grateful, in the course of which it has been made clear across-party, cross-group and nation-wide that this is not the case. If the decisions have been taken in Germany, we will examine the model in concrete terms, and also, I say quite openly, take any legal action, because it cannot be that in this Europe the big ones prevail at the expense of the little ones, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another current issue I would like to report is cabotage, i.e. the provision of transport services in a third country. Here too, the situation is an incredibly difficult one at the moment. There are studies of the Chamber of Commerce, according to which the current situation for the Austrian economy causes a damage of about €500 million each year. We see that there are too many loopholes that one does not adhere to the rules that the controls are not really striking. That is why we have responded. In Austria there are joint focus controls of the Ministry of the Interior, Social Affairs and Social Security. We have started training programmes, we will make changes in the freight transport law, but it also needs, ladies and gentlemen, a change of attitude at European level. There needs to be a clear definition of cabotage, there must be effective controls, and finally there must be a change of direction. It must not be about how to make the most illegal profits, but about the fact that social standards also apply in the transport sector and these jobs are also well paid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The current situation is that professional drivers live in the truck for weeks, are paid badly, that labour and social legislation are not controlled, and that is not only unacceptable, it also represents a huge risk of safety on Austria's roads, and this situation, ladies and gentlemen, is just as little to accept. We need to make clear the existing rules. We need to improve the rules so that they can also be enforceable and controlled. And we have to react to more severe penalties in the event of violations. The rule of law has to be enforced as elsewhere, and it is a matter of greatly improving the conditions on Europe's roads for all parties involved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] .. The biggest challenge in European transport policy is to ensure that there are equal opportunities and fairness between different transport systems. As far as freight transport is concerned, we unfortunately have the situation that the shift from road to rail is not only stagnating, but that there is actually a negative development in this area. This is extremely worrying with regard to the Paris climate targets, because the transport sector in particular must play a major role in the field of CO2 emissions in order to achieve reasonable conditions. The European Commission is again called upon, ladies and gentlemen. I think one should ask whether the policy pursued so far in the railway sector is the right one. We now have the fourth railway package behind us – the fourth railway package that continues to separate the systems. We have railway packages behind us, in which I believe, no, where I am convinced that not the interest in the railway has led the European Commission, but that ideological ideas have led to a growing weakening of European railways. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have learned from experience. We have learned that this integrated rail system, which we have in Austria and Switzerland, is the most successful. The separation was nowhere successful. Let's look at the UK: The railway was smashed due to ideological convictions. Our task now is to ensure that the wind is turning in Europe and we are taking a different path, namely that we are again making policies for the railways and not politics for a few who deserve on the railways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the European Union wants to regain the confidence of citizens, it is important to think about how to live this dream. Europe will not be better accepted if it is well explained. Europe will then be accepted if it is solid, just, free and a Europe that uses citizens, and for that it needs better policy in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13128	Now comes Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the screens! We're not going to get over-rolled! – This was a slogan that moved us in Tyrol in recent years to stand up for the fact that transitlawins do not overrun our country. Many have opened up, have been politicized in these times, have demonstrated and acted so that these traffic addicts of Tyrol do not roll from Kufstein to the Brenner. If then the Transit Forum Tyrol and the Transit Forum formed Europe – there were even candidates for the Tyrolean Landtag in connection with transit traffic, and the candidates have also moved in – then it was always about one thing: the transit-pulled population on the Inntal route through the long-distance pass to the burner, these people, the daily under traffic, under the dust of fine dust. have suffered, to protect. It's about health, it's about the health of our children, it's about the health of older people, it's also about healthy sleep. All of this has been and is a major concern for us, so many here have already addressed the problem of transport in our country. Not all of them were enthusiastic about the construction of the Brenner base tunnel. I can still remember that, for example, the Greens have spoken of a billion tomb in this context. Of course, it is about moving the goods from the road to the rail. Of course, it is a question of us in Tyrol – and not just us in Tyrol – wanting to ban the sector from driving, that we want non-destructible goods to be transported on the track so that the Brenner base tunnel does not become a billion tomb. The Minister of Transport has already mentioned it today: There must also be a major rethinking in the European Union so that this shift from road to rail can really take place. This is a major concern and should be pursued more seriously by the European Union. We in Austria have made a contribution in many areas. I have already mentioned the Brenner base tunnel – other tunnels are under construction – or the sectoral driving ban. The ban on night driving was also implemented in Tyrol, namely on the Loferer Straße, but unfortunately again. Now a next unfriendly act is to be expected: It threatens a complaint, again from the neighbor, and that is not exactly friendly neighbourhood policy. We have been threatened by the Germans that, when the sectoral ban is introduced in Tyrol, it will complain against it – no friendly act by a neighbouring country! What has already been mentioned in the current hour – by the bringer of the topic of the current hour and by Transport Minister Leichtfried – is the question of toll. May the toll be removed? – Of course! There are almost every country in Europe: in Austria, in Germany, in Switzerland, in France. Nearly anywhere you drive on highways, you have to pay toll. It is, however, a question of whether the toll applies to all Europeans. Is the free movement of persons and the free movement of goods for all or is there an exception? – This is a clear discrimination! We have commissioned an opinion from the University of Innsbruck by Professor Walter Obwexer, and this says firmly and firmly, if we complain against it – in the best case, together with the colleagues from the neighbouring countries, i.e. the Netherlands and others – then our complaint would have a great opportunity. We are not concerned with a climate policy, we are concerned with the protection of our homeland and the protection of our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13201	Mr Ottenschlager has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13222	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, seers! We have already heard a lot about European transport policy at this current hour. This shows the challenges we face in Europe, and also the importance of the Transport in this common Europe has – now and also in the future. Mr. Bundesminister Leichtfried, first of all, you have my full support on the subject of cabotage. This is a very important issue for Austria, for the social conditions of workers, but also for the fair competition of entrepreneurs. Secondly – and I would like to stress this, because we are very strong in competition – I would like to stress that the new German Federal Government's work programme for 2018 is intended to halve the flight charges. This will provide an economic advantage to the location of Austria in intra-European competition, and that is a good thing for secure jobs. [[Abg. Brunner:..., this is from the last century!]] Where appropriate, new jobs will be added by further investment. Thirdly, Mr Federal Minister, you mentioned the railway package, the so-called fourth railway package, and you looked at it critically as regards the required separation of infrastructure from operation. In this respect, we may have a slightly different view: We acknowledge from the ÖVP that the railway infrastructure – i.e. the new construction and maintenance of the rail network – is one of the state's most important tasks and should remain from our point of view. That does not mean, however, that we are not for more competition with regard to the operation. Anton Heinzl mentioned it: Especially the western route, which is well developed and takes place in competition, shows that competition is quite positive and brings something to the citizens. I believe that we are on the right path, which is still very long anyway, but the separation of infrastructure and operation is basically to be welcomed. Much has already been said on the subject of toll. We agree with the view that it is necessary to assess this after the final version of the text of the law on the German toll. If our legal experts find that there is clear discrimination, then the appropriate legal course – saying: a complaint – should also be taken. That's where you have our support, Mr. Federal Minister. At European level, it is also quite a matter of how we deal with the toll systems as a whole. The Commissioner was with us in Parliament almost two years ago and has also reported that one of her main projects is the harmonisation of the toll systems. On the one hand, the technical differences, the different systems, and on the other hand, of course, are also about the implementation of a uniform system, including costs, in order to ensure that the same conditions are applied in competition. This is a very exciting, very complex issue, and of course it will still take time in this area until we find a common line at European level. I am very confident, Mr Federal Minister, that you are also trying, on this issue, which is very important to you, to push things forward in Brussels in the interests of Austria. The last point I would like to add here in the debate on how we will deal with the challenges on the road in future in European transport policy concerns automated driving. You know that we have created appropriate framework conditions for the implementation of test lines in Austria. It is particularly important for Austria's economic location that we are on the front line, since, as you know, many jobs in the field of production and supply in the automotive industry depend on them. It is all the more important that we discuss how we will deal with this issue in the future. We have also discussed legal issues or moral-ethical issues very widely. These apply not only to Austria, but we will also need to discuss them at European level, because we also have a common market in the automotive industry. We can't shoot ourselves there. This is also an important issue that we must believe at European level to ensure that we have a level playing field in the Member States of the European Union in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13267	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking for Dr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13285	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank you for the opportunity to speak here. We have a similar opportunity in the Styrian Landtag – there are my political roots – so I know that. I was pleased that I can speak for a little longer than 2 minutes today, but now it has only become 5 minutes. I've already wondered when the Minister began to talk. I thought he was starting today with Romulus and Remus when he mentioned the war destruction. There is a special example to which I would like to address today, namely the German car toll, which has been on display in Brussels for some time now. We are already working on this in the Committee. There will also be an initiative by the Transport Committee in the February meeting in Strasbourg. This supposedly new compromise solution, which has been found, is a clear breach of EU law. On the one hand, this is visible by the fact that there is no clear discrimination against car drivers travelling from abroad to Germany, but a hidden one. – This is once the first break. The second right in force constitutes this tax relief. This new compromise, which has been found in the context of which a tax relief has been made for EURO-5 passenger cars, is contrary to the 'polluter pays' principle, which states that it is the cost of the person who causes it. This compromise leads to the 'polluter pays' principle with the tax relief for Euro-6 passenger cars ad absurdum. But it seems that everything is going on in Brussels, and it seems that everything is going on with this Commission. For this deal, which was negotiated by the Old Boys’ Club in Brussels, there is, of course, as so often, a political background. That means: Dobrindt with Juncker, and in the background the CSU and in the background also the conservatives that so urgently needed this deal. There was, as we often experience in Brussels, this rear room policy. This is a policy that goes beyond people who pass through scientific and technical solutions, and it is very often felt that it comes as a policy from the 1960s. As has already been said, this consensus has been expressed by the conservatives and the socialists. It is quite nice if Mr. Leichtfried now writes a letter. On the one hand, he wrote to Commissioner Bulc, on the other hand also to Comrade Schulz, who unfortunately is no longer here, so he will no longer be able to help so much. In this letter he says that this toll is an absolute disaster. This honors you, of course, Mr. Leichtfried, but the problem is: This deal has been negotiated by your friends, whom you have worked with for years and decades in the Brussels Parliament. So good friends can't seem to be that, because nobody's listening to you out there right now. I can only say: This is exactly the image of the European Union that we have known for years and decades. [[Abg. Heinzl: There are 2 minutes too much! ... the national Parliament!]] This is your European Union that is trying to make deals with rear-room policy, which are illegal on the one hand, and on the other hand are heavily burdening our oberösterreichian counterparts on the other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, as always, it is in Brussels: Although there is a right in place, if you press the right buttons and know the right people, then the law in force doesn't seem to be so important anymore, there is also a traffic toll solution like that in Germany. I say it again: It is in two respects contrary to applicable law! – This is not the Union we want it to be. This is not a European policy and a Union policy as we want it to be. If this German supposed compromise solution actually enters into force and should last, then we can only say: Well, if that is possible in Germany, this must also be possible in Austria, then this must also be possible in the Austrian toll system. That is what Mr Deimek is right about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, Minister Leichtfried, I fully support you in the fight against this toll. You were, I think, in Brussels last week or last week. Get in here! We can certainly do something together. However, it remains clear that this toll solution also belongs to legal combat. That's not the way to stop it. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13334	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13355	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has certainly chosen the topic – this is also heard from the speeches – because it is in the heart of the German car toll. Our Minister, Mr Leichtfried, is rightly acting as the one who advocates non-discrimination. We support this because this principle of non-discrimination is one of the essential principles in the European Union. I speak here as a Tyrolean Member. I know how hard we have done with the introduction of the sectoral ban on driving – we call it the ban on refuse and scrapping – how many beatings we have been thrown between our feet, always on the grounds: You don't have to make it discriminatory, otherwise it won't apply. So it's good, Minister, that you do this. My colleague, Ulrike Lunacek, will address this issue more widely and will present developments at European level. In reality, however, this is a partial aspect of the great issue of fairness in transport. Minister, you are also Minister of Technology. The nice thing on the Internet is: There are speeches that have not yet been given, for example, the speech of Col. Claudia Schmidt, who will say in a few minutes that she wants to congratulate the Greens, because a “late-rate auto hostility” sneaks into the public debate. Mrs. Col., I'm not auto-enemy at all. I even own a car, and I use it, but I use it to make sense, when it makes sense to drive the car. To blame the Greens for being indignant, they are simply completely overburdened, because in addition to the fair conditions – to which I then come to speak – we want traffic to take place as ecologically and efficiently as possible. That's just not to do everything with the car. You will then tell in your speech about the self-driving cars, the great vision that you are sitting in the car, playing on the computer, listening to your own music coming home quickly. Imagine all of this going to happen! Imagine all the commuters to Vienna from Lower Austria, the Burgenland and so on with the self-driving car! – This is the megastau in Vienna. This is not possible because we cannot solve the space problem of the cars in the cities. Mrs. Schmidt, forget the vision that everyone can drive the self-driving electric car in the future! So wide streets and so many streets we can't build. That's not easy. Now I come back to the real issue of fairness in traffic. Mr Minister, you have presented very well what your ideas are. They are also always very friendly and well positioned in content. But what I expect is more action. We have, for example, a vignette that disadvantages skiers. We have a truck toll that shows in no way the damage to the roads that cause trucks. Trucks cause a thousand times more damage on the roads than cars, but on average only pay the 15-fold kilometre toll. It is unfair that freight trains pay for every kilometer of rail use toll, but trucks only on the highway. That's unfair. It is also unfair that there is no right of complaint for residents plagued by street noise, so that they can take action against this street noise. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a rethink. It is up to you, Minister, to do more than say: I want to change things. These are announcements, and the government wants to focus on ruling since yesterday. I'm expecting clear rules from you. I expect you to ensure fairness between rail and road. There's a lot to pick up. I expect you to take all the fraud off and make sure that the truck drivers, who are actually modern slaves, can work under better working conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, truck drivers are usually badly paid. They are constantly monitoring GPS and have an eerie pressure to arrive at the destination in time. This is really modern slave, which we reject Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: Mr Minister, I expect the EU work programme of your place of business for the current year. We are now at the end of January, and I don't want to talk about it until May or something. I would like you to give us a precise and precise description of the positions taken by Austria in relation to the new EU Road Costs Directive, because there is plenty of air up there to produce fair conditions on Europe's roads and on Europe's rail network and social dumping, the To clear up environmental dumping and all these misunderstandings. Mr Minister, I expect your presentation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13441	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13462	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The subject of road transport in Europe was in itself. The previous speakers raised the subject quite a lot, we were in the air traffic, we were at the waterways. We were mainly on the track, and on the edge we discussed the individual traffic a little bit. I am the seventh speaker on this item on the agenda and would like to clear up two areas where Austria could do more and no longer need Europe. The first is relatively exciting: We now massively criticize Germany for the car toll. For this you have complete support from us NEOS, we do not want this toll. However, the toll was introduced in Austria in 1996. What happened the same year and has led to great criticism? – The pendler fee has been significantly increased. So at that time, in order to compare this with the current situation, we did exactly the same thing that is being done in Germany. In Germany, the toll is introduced, and in return, insurances, benefits paid are refunded. It's exactly the same thing: 1996 in Austria and now, 2017, in Germany. Now we criticize Germany that it is damaging Austrian individual traffic. That's right. But the right answer would have been to sit in the glass house, not to throw stones, but to go a step further and say: Okay, we need a European solution instead of the national Fleckerltepich. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already mentioned this. I hear that clearly too little. Of course, we have to use the legal means, we have to work together with the neighbouring states, but we also have to set an initiative for a European solution. I'm totally missing it. The second point, Mr Minister, has been raised in person: Great Britain. – This is always the social-democratic death-beat argument when it comes to liberalisation – not privatisation – of railway companies and rail transport. But there have been very massive differences and they are still there. In the UK, the operators were also responsible for the infrastructure, which has led to massive hazards and some tragedies, because the railway infrastructure has not been properly maintained. Nor has there been any progress in the UK, which has been promised before liberalisation, namely that there are cheaper prices and a better service. But that was essentially in the 1970s and 1980s, unfortunately in the UK even today. Let's look at Austria! In Austria there is the so-called direct award. This means that the federal government gives routes directly to the ÖBB, without asking other providers whether it went cheaper and better. Vorarlberg, it's been a few weeks: There was again a direct award to the ÖBB in social-democratic manners. However, there was a second supplier who offered to use two trains more and to demand 20 million € less from the Republic and the country. This was not even accepted as an offer because there was a direct award. In other words, we do not need to look into the UK of the 1970s and 1980s, but we need only to look at Vorarlberg from a few weeks ago to know that this system has failed. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and the Member of the European Parliament Mlinar.]] But now still to the road that would actually need more attention: There are two major challenges which both are not adequately met. One is the so-called digitization of the street. This means a networked, so-called intelligent road with toll and telematic systems, with self-driving cars. We're still in the kids' shoes. The self-driving car can, once it works as it is planned, reduce the number of road accidents or at least the number of road fatalities and serious injuries to an absolute minimum. We know that since 1950 we have lost 100 000 people on the streets in Austria. If we don't do anything, then we're ourselves guilty. Mr. Minister, you are the prime minister who finds the right sounds. I expect much more implementation. As the last point on the road in Europe and in Austria, I would like to address the so-called decarbonisation, i.e. Paris climate agreement. We not only assume self-driving cars, but theoretically we also assume cars powered by electricity. The infrastructure is also largely lacking for this. If you are talking about Europe and road transport, I think you should present the Austrian solutions in the National Council and fight for European solutions in Europe. I'm still missing it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13519	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13541	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is undisputed that Germany violates European law. It is also true that we are against it. Mr Minister, I think you are dealing with this from the wrong side, because the question should not be what we are doing against the German car toll, but the question should be: What do I do for the Austrian driver? You have not yet asked this question, I believe. It is not possible to protest against it, since we ourselves have a toll in Austria. This has also been properly addressed by my previous speaker. There have also been protests against it. I can't just insult and say I'm against it, and I'm in opposition to that with probably moderate success in the EU – I expect it to be. Anyone who knows the EU a little bit – and you certainly know it very well – knows that after the whole process that you have been able to observe around the German car toll, you will probably not be able to stand out. Now I've been wondering: What could we do so that we might come to a good denominator so that the Austrian driver or the Austrian people can benefit from it? Mr Minister, please write to me, otherwise I will send you a request, because I think that is a good idea! My proposal would be that, for example, heavy traffic on Austria's roads should be increased. I believe that at the time, we have been far too cheap to join the EU, and that is why we also have this traffic problem and the problems of heavy traffic. At the same time, we can call on this statement by the EU Parliament or the EU Commission and say that Austrian farmers are being improved towards foreign citizens. That means, We'll give them back what they pay more toll. This would also have the following advantages: The freighters, the transporters are currently moving away from abroad because the costs in Austria are so high. You still have the company headquarters here, partly with two, three vehicles, and the rest is in Slovakia, in Romania, what do I know anywhere. We could start and see that we get these jobs back by promoting our own providers by using this saying and giving back some of the Austrian fishermen to create jobs here in Austria. That would be a good chance, you should observe it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Minister, let us do it at the same time as the Germans in the second step! Nowhere in Europe, I think, is the driver as burdened as in Austria if you take all the hidden taxes into account – be that the VAT on seeding or all the taxes we have in the passenger car sector. You could also say: Okay, since the Germans do, we refund the costs of the Vignette to Austrian drivers, we have enough revenue in this area anyway. If we were to devote these revenues to road transport by the drivers, we would have the opportunity to relieve the drivers of the burden. Since the EU gave the Germans free ride, we could do the same. That would be a reasonable thing to do at last something for the Austrians, for the drivers and drivers in Austria. I think that's a chance. You, the government, have now said: We pick this up, we do something now, we want to do something for the Austrians! This would be a great opportunity, Mr Minister, not only to create jobs – this is also included in your new government programme – but also to return to the Austrian drivers something that they have been inundated for years, to what I know to finance everything, in the least cases the roads and the car traffic. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to do something good. If you want it more precisely, I will prepare a request and bring it in shortly. We may then be able to discuss this in the Committee on Transport. I would be pleased if we then implement this relatively quickly, because it benefits not only Austrian citizens but also Austrian entrepreneurs and employees. That would be a real step, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13595	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13616	Mr President. Mr Verkehrsminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hagen! Of course, the topic offers the possibility of getting a little wider and packing the matter in the same way as “Wish something!” But if we focus on the current challenges of European transport policy again, I would like to say that there are, at least from my point of view, very positive developments; I would like to address two of them. As a representative of Styria and Graz, I am pleased to see the development of the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor and the classification into the highest priority level. As an Austrian transport politician, I am pleased to see the overall development of rail infrastructure cooperation. At least at the time, we can say that €700 million has been made from Europe to invest in Austrian rail infrastructure, which is positive. But there are also very worrying developments, and there we are at the planned German car toll. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My daughter is now about two and a half years old, and always when she has the feeling or the impression that something is wrong, she says: That's not how it is, and that's about two and a half years old. [[Abg. Kickl: Does this happen often?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Höbart.]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the quote is: This is not the case, quite a striking quote for the development of the German car toll. Mr Dobrindt, Minister of Transport, I say from this point of view: That's not how it is! – This quote is also addressed to the address of the Commissioner responsible for Transport in Brussels. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] A little behind the doors, when the pressure grows up, and propose another variant, which, according to our previous information, is a indirect discrimination due to nationality, is not all right. We will therefore certainly not support this. - First thought. Second thought: Of course, we support and acknowledge the fact that a Member State of the European Union also wants to introduce a toll system. Austria has done this, it has already been addressed. For some 20 years now, we have a self-contained system, which is now also accepted and accepted by the population in the ASFINAG. But – and the substantial difference lies in But – on the basis of the fundamental freedoms of the internal market, but also on the basis of a general prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality. What is planned at the hour in Germany is clearly illegal according to our legal position and on the basis of our information we have at the hour. I would therefore like to mention once again the address of the Federal Transport Minister responsible in Germany: Stop your grudge performances on German television! [[Abg. Höbart: There are several!]] And stop spreading the message that the Austrians in Germany do not want to pay toll! – That's not the point at all! It is about discrimination within the European Union, and in the end it is only about the fact that foreigners in Germany actually pay the toll de facto. That's not what we're going to do. Third thought – I conclude –: Yes, 500 million €, we talk about these amounts at the hour, 500 million € are a lot of money, nevertheless: In this form it is not possible! We clearly have the situation that makes the famous drilling of hard boards necessary in politics. At European level, the boards are even harder. But I also believe that the path of our Minister for Transport is the right one, namely to seek a cross-border partner, in order to make a clear suggestion of a intended discriminatory regime. This is best done at European level with partners, the way is the right one. This form of introduction, as planned at hour, we reject. [[Abg. Kickl: There you can throw away much of the government pact!]] I am pleased that there is a great consensus that we all draw together on a strand and also in the same direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13695	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13720	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! If you live in Tirol, you never have it far to the next state border. If you move the circle into the Tyrolean map and draw a circle of 100 kilometres, you are either in Italy, in Switzerland or in Germany. Italy and Switzerland have been demanding tolls for cars in the high-level road network for a long time. In Switzerland it is currently flat-rate €38.50 per year, you have no way to obtain a vignette for a few days. In Italy, the level of toll is calculated according to the length of the runway. Routes with high effort for construction and maintenance, such as tunnels and high-bridge mountain railways, are calculated higher than others. Thus, for a normal passenger car in Italy, an average of about 7 cents per kilometer is generated. For example, in France, Slovenia and Croatia, tolls are also required; my colleagues have already done so. In Austria, 2017 requires that a 10-day vignette costs €8.90, a vignette for two months €25.90 and a vignette for one year €86.40, for all passenger drivers the same. Three countries, three systems. This leads to the fact that, for example, we in Tyrol, but certainly also in Vorarlberg, many citizens on their car have both an Austrian toll-vignette and a Swiss toll-vignette and have an Italian telepass. This is just as before the introduction of the euro, as many people have had three wallets with us, one with Schilling, one with D-Mark and one with Lire. A complicated system, or one could also say: no system at all. So Germany also wants to introduce a car toll. According to our current state of knowledge and according to what is available in documents, the 10-day vignette will start at €2.50, depending on the engine space and pollutant emissions, and will cost up to €25, the vignette for two months up to €50 and the annual vignette a maximum of € 130. According to our current knowledge, it is planned that foreigners will only be calculated on motorways toll. So far, so good. I think a lot of people with us consider this to be comprehensible. Mr Klug has already said that there is now a certain acceptance in Austria that high-level road networks are expensive, that they need to be renovated, developed and maintained, good infrastructure has its price. But what the Austrians really do not understand, and especially the people in the border regions, is the plan of the Germans who pay off to the holders of vehicles authorised in Germany or to taxable cars by compensation. The intention is that the expenditure on car tolls for Germans will be fully compensated. Apart from the fact that there is great doubt that this approach is in line with the EU – the Minister has already done it very precisely, also some of my colleagues – it is simply the same that our citizens feel it is extremely unfair. This procedure is simply not acceptable to many of us. Especially in the case of us in Tyrol – we noticed it earlier, Colleague Worm became quite emotional when she spoke about Tirol – there are always great difficulties because of the toll refugees who come to us from the north and sometimes also travel through. We only need to think of Kufstein, where the chaos reigns over and over again and Kufstein comes to a standstill, because the people who come to us are pressing around the toll. These are very often also German citizens. It gives the impression that we are dealing with the toll by driving on the national roads, and we are supposed to pay toll in Germany. [[Abg. Schimanek: No!]] No one can understand this anymore, although one might compare a little apples with pears there, but still it goes into the emotions, and people are quite uplifted for that. Since we do not yet know exactly how the German project is being implemented in the law, it is difficult at present to estimate which process will be the best from our side. Mr Ottenschlager has already pointed out, Minister of State, that we have a commitment to support if there is a reasonable legal path. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] However, I would like to ask you very strongly, apart from what is being brought into the EU, that there be an acceptable solution for us Austrians and, in particular, for the inhabitants of the border regions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13762	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13784	Mr President. Federal Minister! The ongoing discussion on a subject to which Mr Pfurtscheller says, as we do not know what legislative text is, occasionally slides into absolute populism. It is discussed how good or how bad the EU is in some issues. – Members of the Government Party! Until yesterday before the signature service in the government, you have blamed us for this very attitude. Now you do it yourself. With us it was populism, with you it may be a living EU policy. I don't know what that is. Reell isn't the whole thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us, however, consider what it is all about, namely the fair conditions on Europe's roads. Once again, it is important to draw a clear line and not always to say something where one believes that perhaps something is meant, but to say what is fact. If you are talking about submitting a complaint, you need proper concepts, legal concepts. But these are missing. And what do you do if you don't know? – One establishes a working group, in this case a community of complainants. That is to say, we are urgently seeking countries from Eastern Europe or from the neighborhood of Germany, which may join us in order to minimize the risk. Wouldn't it be better to look in detail what's really there? There has been a Bundestag decision since 2015, and Germany has outsourced it into a society similar to Austria's ASFINAG. There, although it does not yet have legislative power – it has not entered into force – the whole is detailed. The German drivers, the owners of German licenses, pay an infrastructure charge concerning motorways, highways and federal and state roads. However, the foreign toll payer or infrastructure payer pays only for the higher-ranking network. Now, in Germany, the special case is that money from the car tax and from the fuel tax on infrastructure ==References== That is what Germany would like to repay if it introduces the infrastructure tax. As you will have to understand ordinary legal concepts, for if, for example, a complaint is successful and Germany lowers car taxation or mineral oil taxation, then only more cars with German marks are driving Austrians in the neighbouring states. I can't imagine that's what the Austrian government wants. We already have it in Vienna. Let's be honest: What we collect from mineral oil tax is more than we need for the infrastructure. There was a decision at the conference of the country's transport stakeholders that they only need a fraction of the mineral oil tax in order to be able to carry out all their infrastructure projects, and no one is talking about it today – a fraction of it! The rest is for the Weti Tant or disappears in the budget pot. That's not serious either! You also need to talk about fairness! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If one really meant it with the concerns about the citizens and the drivers – Germany is not anyone, it is our closest trading partner and the largest partner in the EU – then four transport ministers who have long known about it – well, Mr. Klug was not in office for so long, we say at least three transport ministers – could have agreed on bilateral agreements for the counterparts. It's easy to do: The German counterparts don't pay with us, and we don't pay in Germany. But no, you do a acting, a play called complaint, instead, and you don't know how it's going to go out. And if it goes by the way, then you're the lacquered one, because then you don't know how to handle your own high taxes again. But let us also come to the other points that have been raised in this context today. As colleague Pfurtscheller or colleague Wurm wants to protect the Tyroleans by appealing against the German toll, you have to explain that to me again. Because what it really is about is the high number of transits. Let's get these on track. This will not go with the German toll or with the Austrian toll. The second is that we have a problem in the Kufstein area. Nor will we be able to solve this with a general toll or German toll or with a complaint against it. That's where small-scale solutions are needed. And even there has been nothing in the mind since three or four transport ministers, nothing in the concept, there is nothing. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Not even the Green Land Councillor of Tyrol has a concept for how to solve the problem at Kufstein. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I notice: Neither for the solutions in Tyrol nor for the federal government there are concepts, but there are strong threats of complaint. Such a thing is pure populism.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13878	Now the Member of the European Parliament is coming to Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13899	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! It's nice to be here again in the National Council. It reminds me of the time when I was here constantly. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You can join again!]] I am pleased to discuss with you a subject which was the occasion for this debate today, namely the toll that Germany has introduced. As a guardian of the Treaties, the Commission should not have accepted this lazy compromise. This is quite clear from the point of view of the European Parliament. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] That is why I will now deal more with this issue than with the other speakers who have referred to my previous speakers. It is not surprising that there is resistance not only in Austria, but across the European Union, because it is simply a lazy compromise. It concerns mainly the neighbouring states of Germany, but also other citizens who want to pass through Germany from further north or further west or east or further south. It is quite clear that this so-called alien toad is discriminatory, it is anti-European – the principle of equality is violated – and is illegal in the EU. This will also be the case before the European Court of Justice. I am convinced that this will be lifted by the European Court of Justice. What happens to this toll? – There are then German drivers who, for example, have cars with an environmentally friendly, i.e. the lowest pollutant class – that is basically good – and these no longer pay toll in Germany, which are de facto free. But if a car driver from Austria or Denmark or from where exactly the same car with the same low pollutant class is driving on German roads, she must pay. – That’s pure discrimination, that’s changed! This is especially true of commuters. This is true of people in the border regions, and, as has been said, not only from Austria, also from Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Poland and the Czech Republic. All those who live and commute around Germany or live in the border region will do so. This is reality in Europe. We're driving across borders – which hopefully everyone will be open again – without having to ask whether we have to pay tolls there or not. That would have to be the same for everyone. That can't be punished! This life free across borders in this Europe must not be punished. The supreme commandment is fairness. Those who drive a lot should also pay for road use. And if you drive less, you should pay less. We Greens are not basically against tolls, but they must not violate the principle of equality. There is the claim in Germany that until now only the Germans pay for the infrastructure in Germany. – That’s just not true! All European taxpayers pay for the Trans-European Networks. That must also be said. What we need in principle is cost-truth in transport – it still does not exist – so that it is simply clear that the generality must not come up for the costs that cause traffic, but for those who cause it. In the European Parliament – and my colleagues will probably say more about this – there was now also an over-group alliance to actually put the issue on the agenda in the next plenary session in Strasbourg in mid-February. 40 Members from ten countries have requested that the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Violeta Bulc, speak and answer why she has agreed to this lazy compromise. I very much appreciate her work in itself, but in this case she seems to have given up the pressure that has come from several sides, because it is unequal enough, it should not agree to this compromise. In mid-February, we will have a debate on this in plenary, and then there will be a resolution on it later, i.e. the European Parliament is concerned about this because it is about discriminatory measures. As has already been said, we Greens are not against tolls in principle, they are useful, that has already been done by Georg Willi and others, but it must be done in accordance with the principle: If you drive more, pay more! Or a little more polemic said: Whose car smells more, he also pays more! Whose car is cleaner, he also needs to pay less! This principle must be respected. It is about this principle, and we must implement it across Europe. However, it is also about the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. And that's clear: We will not continue without such principles. It is the only positive approach to this German toll that those whose cars emit less pollutants also have to pay less. But this must not only apply to German citizens, but, in the European context, differentiation by class of pollutants is correct. But there must be no differentiation between passports and Member States. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We need the same rights for all across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13954	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking for Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e13975	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! I am pleased that today we are discussing a subject in the current hour of Europe, in which we are all more or less of an opinion, because the toll, as it is currently to be introduced in Germany, is not very much in common – both because it is a heavy burden on Austrians and because it is discrimination against EU law, as has already been pointed out by my previous speakers. But I think we should go a step further and rather think about how we really want to develop transport policy. Because one thing is clear: Unfortunately, transport policy is only one of many areas in Europe in which every European country cooks its own soup in the final effect. As with so many other issues, such as environmental policy, common European foreign policy and, above all, a common asylum and migration policy, no country alone will be able to put a reasonable solution on its feet or be successful against its neighbouring countries. And so I repeat here, too, what I have said so often elsewhere: We need more joint action and more cooperation at EU level. This is, in addition to foreign discrimination, the main problem also with the German toll, because with its introduction, an EU-wide approach to transport policy is de facto suffocated in the germ. I am convinced that an EU-wide approach to calculating according to the 'polluter pays' principle would be the far better way. A first concrete step in the right direction could be, for example, the extension of the EU Directive on the collection of charges for trucks to passenger cars. This requires framework conditions if Member States choose to introduce vignettes or tolls for lorries. Similarly, the Nordic system of the Eurovignette for trucks could be used in other areas. The fact that the German toll is not a model for further steps and better cooperation in Europe has already been noted by many of my previous speakers. As Mr Lunacek mentioned earlier, the Transport Committee, based on an initiative of the Liberals and Social Democrats, will draw up a resolution which provides for non-discriminatory solutions, and this resolution will be discussed in the European Parliament in February. Thus, on the example of this German toll, we again see very clearly: It does not need less European Union, it needs more European Union! The lack of EU legislation in these cases, as in many other cases, leads to the emergence of a wide variety of flicker syllables, which are sometimes discriminatory and, as in this case, lead to very specific conflicts. And there, too, Austria is not completely unladen. We also think far too much along our national borders, because, as Mr Bernhard has rightly mentioned, we in Austria have also put a lot of emphasis on the independent introduction of our own toll, and there have been problems, as already heard, among other things in increasing the penalty rate. That is why I welcome in itself the initiative taken by Austria at EU level against the German toll, in which a common objective is worked together with other countries. My former colleague and current transport minister Jörg Leichtfried is on the right path with his initiative in Brussels. Policy in Europe and everywhere else is known to be a constant search for compromises and commons, from transport policy and trade policy to the EU budgets to the voting weighting in the Council and the seat of the EU Parliament. Important discussions and decisions are under way that will make the future sustainable. I believe that we should all get up and look for a bigger picture or long-term solutions that could bring us all forward. It is precisely in times like this that we must take these opportunities. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14027	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14048	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leichtfried, you said something very important at the beginning of your remarks from my point of view, because you are a person who knows the European Union better from the years of activity in Brussels than we mean that the dream of Europe has not become reality. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the point, that's what people outside feel: This dream of fairness, of equal treatment, of fair conditions has not become reality, and the EU suffers. There is a need for action, and this must be filled in by policy, and it cannot say goodbye to this task. Ladies and gentlemen! This concerns many areas. It concerns, for example, the sparkers; we have already heard that today. 40 percent of the participants have been flagged out. They did not do so because they no longer wanted to compete as Austrian companies on the market, but they did so because they simply did not get along with the costs, because the competitors from abroad sent the Austrian market much cheaper. But it is not only those who are affected, but also those who are concerned with the construction industry, where we are looking through the best bidder procedure for ways in which we can better shape the market. This problem also exists in the production sector, where, for example, in a woodland such as Austria, where 47 percent of the area is forest land, the domestic market is flooded with pellets and firewood from abroad. All of this has an impact on globalisation, and this globalisation is making people afraid. That is why, if we do not want to destroy the domestic economy, we finally need framework conditions under which globalisation can take place at all. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Mr. Leichtfried, you did on 22 February. The German toll is the “symbol for the destruction of Europe” in December 2016. - Yes, you're right! We are at a time of great de-olidarization, and from Germany as one of the strongest countries in Europe, this de-olidarization is being promoted. In this context, I recall the solo passage of the German chancellor, who has caused a wave of migration to an unprecedented extent, a migration flow that will continue to occupy us massively in the future! This de-olidarization is now continuing by introducing a toll for foreigners. This is a product of the CSU/CDU community, where you can expect 524 million € in tax revenue, and the whole thing is under the title: Well, we need more money for Mobility 4.0, the foreigners should pay! – But I say to you: This process is a fuel accelerator for the destruction of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right if we are fighting against it, it is perfectly right, because we Austrians too could take measures, as Mr Hagen mentioned, for example, a truck toll exemption for local entrepreneurs so that they can be competitive so that they can exist on the common market with Hungary, Czechs and Slovenians. This would be a positive approach for the domestic economy, a strengthening for the domestic economy. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Or: Who would prevent us from increasing vignette prices for foreigners, as Germany does, a different treatment of foreigners? Or: We could increase the study fees for medical students, whereby we could refund this fee to Austrian students. That would also be a possible way. Now it is as we know that we are training medical students for Germany, knowing that eight out of ten students go back to Germany after their studies. Ladies and gentlemen! We could also think creatively if Germany already wants to discriminate against us so creatively. Mr Minister, you are definitely required! They are required to seek allies, and you are required to choose a way for Austria, a way for the domestic economy, which guarantees a continuation of the domestic economy. Mr Minister, we will fight against discrimination in a massive way. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] But if it comes to it, I expect the Austrian Federal Government to work creatively on models, as well as to protect our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14147	The Member of the European Parliament now speaks of Graswander-Hainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14169	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The last week, transport policy was a sign of a broad alliance against the German car toll plans. Much has already been said about this and much has been explained. The fact is, a toll that only foreigners pay in the final effect can and must not exist in the European internal market. This is unolidarian, unfair and violates the European principle of non-discrimination. I would like to thank Minister Leichtfried once again. We have been working together with Members of other countries last week, and I would like to thank him for his commitment and also to give him my full support. In the European Parliament, we have also succeeded in a great deal, and we have launched a cross-country and inter-group resolution and have also put open questions to the Commission, which it must give a mandatory answer. The European Parliament and the neighbouring states of Germany are all sending a clear signal: In Europe, the same right must apply to all! Whoever thinks it was just about a detail that's wrong. I'd like to continue with the thought: This is not only about the German toll, but it is also about the danger that this could be the beginning of the end of the common European economic area. However, I would also like to highlight another aspect. No one wants to prevent Germany from introducing a toll. But pay those who use the street, no matter what number. As a Social Democratic, it is important for me to support the 'polluter pays' principle at European level, i.e. whoever uses the roads by car, whether private or commercial, must pay for it. They are paid for the waste, for the pollutant emissions and for the share of traffic, because congestion, morode roads or even air pollution do not stop at national borders. Another important point I would like to mention is climate change emissions. In contrast to industry and households, the transport sector has not reduced its climate-damaging emissions since 1990 – yes, you have heard it right: since 1990! – and today he is responsible for 24 percent of the climate-damaging emissions in Europe, and 74 percent of them are caused by road transport alone. That's where we have to sit. That is why I consider road use charges to be a useful and appropriate means. This would also enable us to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement and the objectives of the European White Paper on Transport. Europe sets out and sets out political guidelines, but we need even more effort in the case of Weitem. We need to avoid unnecessary transport, relocate necessary transport environmentally friendly, but also organise research, efficiency and innovation and, accordingly, in our investment policy, redesign ................................................................................................................................................................ This is a great challenge, but certainly also a great opportunity. I believe that our quality of life will be improved if we lead a sustainable transport turnaround. This will also give us opportunities for many new sectors of the economy. But, as has already been said, it needs a broad alliance. Ladies and gentlemen! Really, we can only move something if we work together in the same direction. However, this requires solidarity, fairness and also respect for the basic principle of non-discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14223	Now the Member of the European Parliament is coming to Mag. Schmidt speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14244	Mr President. High house! Minister! Last year, in the European Parliament, many colleagues knocked on my shoulder and thanked myself for Austria’s stand against Germany on a transport issue alone. Much has already been said about the German toll, of course it is not in accordance with European law, and there is indeed an shoulder closure to take action against it. But back to the title of today's current European hour: Why is it fairness in road transport and not fairness for road transport? – This would be much more appropriate and urgent. How drivers are treated or how the subject of driving is dealt with as a whole is an ongoing capitulation in front of a few pathological autohassers, both at national and international level. We are building jobs and opportunities. What is fair about the fact that Austrian vehicle owners deliver more than €13 billion each year via the mineral oil tax, by means of the car tax, via tolls and other car-related taxes, while at the same time investing only around €4 billion in the road network? What happens to the remaining €9 billion? Worse: Commissioner Bulc seems to give the green lobby a final boost, as she will provide additional burden in spring in the context of the revision of the Eurovignettes Directive. I address here the so-called user-pays principle and also the so-called Polluter-pays principle. In fact, this is nothing more than a drop-off under the cover of the fair distribution of environmental costs and infrastructure financing. The Eurovignets Directive should now include passenger cars in the revised version also or precisely because of the German toll plans. The Commissioner for Transport, with the support of some Member States, urges this fundamentalist criminality. I very much hope that the future Austrian position in the Council will not be so anti-mobility, because there is too much at stake. The introduction of a kilometre-based toll including the pollutant class discharge trade will, of course, be left to the National Council, but the framework for this will now be set in Brussels. Neither the environment nor the arrants have anything of it if 2 cents per kilometer are transferred more or less to the respective Minister of Finance. The traffic figures on the burners mentioned today clearly show that the principle already implemented for trucks does not lead to a reduction in traffic. People don't go to their fun. The only thing the finance ministers can be happy about is enormous. According to ASFINAG, in 2015 26.4 billion car kilometres on Austria's motorways. This is € 2 cents per kilometer of € 528 million in additional revenue per year. However, there has been a kilometre-dependent taxation and environmental component for decades. It is called mineral oil tax and comes out without expensive technical aids and without supervision. Since electric cars do not naturally come into contact with this pipe column, the tax can also be considered as an environmental-monetary incentive system. This system is spread throughout Europe, regardless of the national language, culture and legal tradition. It is extremely simple and measure-resistant, and it also does not help to avoid this tax. This is a fair pan-European approach, and the resources of the oil tax should also be used for what they were originally introduced for. We are always talking about citizens having to be mobile, rural areas need to be connected to central areas, and yet we are punishing any form of individual mobility. Now I would like to congratulate the Greens, because I believe that this latent auto-enemy that has already been mentioned – thank you – is really there. We have to think that technology companies like Google, Intel and so on find answers to problems that we have not even addressed. It's not enough to praise the railways and condemn cars. For example, when Google brought the first self-driving cars to the road that handled 1.5 million kilometers in American cities in just two self-indebted accidents, the ÖBB spoke about the Wi-Fi on the West Railway. These self-driving cars will be our future, and they will make mobility safer for our seniors and make transport safer at all. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Fair conditions on Europe's roads mean that I am fighting in Brussels to introduce these technologies to us as soon as possible, and that means that car traffic must be given the same opportunities as all other modes of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14312	The next item is the speech by Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14333	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! "Current challenges in European transport policy: fair conditions in Europe Roads’: If you read through this title, you think directly, you have landed in the government program – sugar sweet and nice. One could really ask the question whether the government has a populism problem quite slowly. But you can say, fittingly on the subject: You can put the government in the context of road transport, for example, if you own a car that doesn't jump or is no longer safe from traffic, you will take the car, put it in the workshop and ask there what the repair costs. If one gets told that the repair is too expensive, one will decide to give the car away and get a new one. That is exactly what we should do with this government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us come back to the subject: “fair conditions on Europe’s roads”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one has now really been allowed to hear this fight over the toll in Germany for an hour and a half. Mr Verkehrsminister, I would like you to spend the energy you now spend on the German motorway toll on our drivers. I'm just saying, Mineral oil tax. I say: VAT. I say: Insurance tax. Mr Federal Minister, there are more than enough approaches to relieve Austrian drivers and create fair conditions here instead of dealing with any legal battles at European level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fair transport policy on Europe's roads, part two: Mr Federal Minister, if you want fair transport policy, please stop and put your weight in the scales that our drivers will not be painted with this disgusting air hundred! On the one hand you drive the air hundreds near Linz, on the other hand you drive a few kilometers further to Suben, and then there are no more speed limits in Germany at all. Mr. Federal Minister, you have to think about this too! Take a look at whether there is more air pollution there and if there are more accidents there! Statistics say it's not that way – so fair conditions on Europe's roads! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] Although it may not be directly related to transport policy on Europe's roads, I would nevertheless like to return very briefly to the TENs, the Trans-European Networks, which have been mentioned several times today, including by Mr Heinzl. Right, we have undertaken that these trans-European networks should be built up once in their basic structures by 2030 and that the operation of these networks should work from 2050 onwards. That is right and important, but, Mr Heinzl, you are always standing there and say: the railway, the railway country number one and so on and so on. – In the European Union, these TENs are still being planned, with the secondary trains that the national leaders have already wiped out. There's no longer any of them. You are pushing trains on any drawing board through the area that is no longer there – please, as you can find a little connection to reality again! Mr Heinzl, you said it once again: Austria is the busiest population in Europe. – Mr Heinzl, I think you brought the 2015 statistics, which was the immigration-introduction action of the current chancellor Core – but we did not want to become number one in railway driving, Mr Heinzl. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Go, please! For what the poor have to keep everything!]] Mr Heinzl, what I would like to say to you, and that is what you will address in Brussels and your colleagues: The left should know what the rights are doing. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Heinzl.]] So you shouldn't plan with railways that don't exist, and if you're running statistics, you'll lead them right! – In Hasendorf, the Internet is still not going, by the way, colleague Heinzl. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl:... Hasendorf!]] But be it, we'll hear a glorious government statement anyway. I'm very excited about how to put this vehicle back into operation, whether the ARBÖ will provide start-up aid, whether the ÖAMTC will provide start-up aid – I don't know. I'm looking forward to what plattites are going to plow on us now. Nevertheless, one thing I can say to you: The FPÖ will not have a starter cable for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14423	Mrs Mag. Brunner's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14444	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! "Current challenges in European transport policy: fair conditions in Europe Roads’: I really think the title of this current European hour is excellent, which is an urgent issue. We face major challenges in the conversion of the transport system. This conversion also offers us great opportunities, and we should address it urgently. In the debate so far, however, I have not really heard much of the big differences. [[Abg. New builder: You will tell us now!]] I would like to focus a little on what these challenges are, and above all on the importance of fairness in transport. Fair conditions: yes, but please for all road users! These are also pedestrians and pedestrians, cyclists and all who otherwise move on the streets. Fair conditions: Yes, it needs it especially in the cost distribution. My colleague Georg Willi has already mentioned how much more damage trucks do on the roads than cars. This distribution of costs is not fair. It is also not fair when children get sick, especially in winter, just because we are making a missing transport policy and do not put in place the necessary measures to reduce road traffic, reduce fine dust pollution and thus protect the health of many people, especially children. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] All of this now refers only once to the road, and what has been said so far has been primarily related to the street. However, fair conditions need to be seen in the overall transport system, and what is particularly negative to me from the government programme, the work programme that has now been presented, is the halving of the ticket charge. So you have to explain this! How fair is this to our tourism companies when flying becomes cheaper, long-distance travel is cheaper? How fair is it if the most important factors in climate change, which make the biggest contribution to air pollution, are most taxed by the Federal Government and all the others have to pay this burden? – It’s not that they’re relieved and that’s it, but that’s what someone has to pay for. And this usually pays for the general public, which is the one that is then also affected by these damage. So how fair is it if the greatest contaminants are most relieved? One of my most important points, the climate agreement, was raised. The climate agreement has now been in force for more than a year, since November, and we have not yet adopted a single measure here in this House to implement this Treaty. Even in your government program – I'm really sorry, I've been looking for it – I don't find the word decarbonization a single time. I do not think the implementation of the climate agreement. What I find is the halving of the ticket, and, nothing bad, that's probably more than from the last century. I can't do that. Either we take the climate agreement seriously, then we put the measures in place, and then you do location policy – but in the sense of climate protection – or you play the whole thing against each other again and say: Yeah, we want to go, but we're still halving the ticket. - I can't. These times are over. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We face major challenges in remodeling the transport system. This means more public transport, which means more electric mobility, better combinations, better offers even in rural areas, more infrastructure in public transport, no further road development – that is something similar to the ticket charges –; so do not head in the wrong direction, but go in the right direction. Unfortunately, I can't find that right now. However, we will certainly bring ourselves in constructively. We have already made some proposals so that we can also master the challenges ahead of us. But we have to deal with it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14503	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14524	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In order to follow up on the comments made by Mr Brunner – because you have been working in this way for tourism for a short time now –: Life is not a one-way street. So in this respect flying is not only one-way, but those who fly away will also come back, and they may have to fly away again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Tourism is therefore very much committed to reducing flight charges – because it is unique, even in the European context – if we are committed to fair conditions – and that is the subject: fair conditions on Europe's roads. [[Abg. Walser: “Tourism”! There may be other opinions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] The current challenges are the German toll, according to Federal Minister Leichtfried, but we could also consider the subject a little more abstract, in that the European Union is based on four basic values – here we all agree –: These are the free movement of persons, the free movement of goods, the free movement of services and the free movement of capital. Mr D. Klug said: That's not how it is! – It's really not that way. In this respect, I would like to draw out the SPÖ's rosin picking out, namely to complain about an admittedly unfair toll policy, to be used as chief, chancellor core, but at the same time to restrict the freedom of movement of persons according to the Burgenland model. - That's not how it is. That's not the way it is! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You can't say on the one hand: That unfair toll! That is unfair now, but on the other hand we are restricting the European idea of free movement of persons and the free movement of services. So in that respect, what you're doing here is already absurd, and the apple turd will be eaten even without raisins and without you anytime, if You continue and continue to have your doubts about this European idea. This is the challenge of politics, and this is the challenge of the government: To take Europe's policy seriously, to take it seriously, in so far as I am committed to Europe, that I make my contribution to it. I admit that the toll is discriminatory – I am already with you – but one thing I can also say to you: In Germany too, one bets, and the liberal FDP in person of German spokesman Lindner said: “The toll draws new boundaries to our neighbors, which no one can want. The CSU toll is pure provincial policy.” [[Abg. Kickl: Who?]] SPÖ policy is also pure in provincial policy, and especially when it comes to tourism and services, it is not possible to scale out passenger transport and the service and say: [[Abg. Kickl: The FDP is not even provincial policy!]] We keep that for ourselves, but we're getting excited at the German toll! - That's not how it is! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14619	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14640	Mr President. Federal Minister! It's about fair conditions on Austria's streets. Moments for heavy transport are long-term reality for Europe's roads as well as federal highways. Both in Austria and in other EU Member States as well as in Switzerland, toll systems for passenger transport on the roads in question are now the state of the art. Both the construction and maintenance of long-distance roads are mainly dependent on the topography of the countries. Reference should also be made to different tax systems for the financing of transport routes. In Austria, it should be pointed out that traffic routes exist, which allow Austria to cross in a few hours and with a filling of fuel from north to south as well as east to west. Austria's central location also allows a certain amount of tank tourism, and doublings are also a major financial contribution to international transport routes. The well-proven system of tolling international traffic routes is now challenged by the Federal Republic of Germany with the EU's agreement by introducing tolls for the use of German motorways for passenger transport only not authorised in Germany. The principle of equality is avoided in such a way that the holder of the authorisation with the German registration mark receives a significant proportion of the intended car toll in the calculation of the engine-related taxes. Although the Commissioner for Transport has agreed to this project, this regulation clearly violates the principle of equality. Especially adverse are the inhabitants of border regions who are forced to recommence, for example, for professional reasons. Austria as a net payer within the EU has a legitimate right to tax or tax justice within the EU Member States. The Federal Government or the Transport Ministers are therefore required to introduce measures which lead to equivalent, fair conditions of use of European long-distance routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14676	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:38:24]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e14698	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 10201/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15043	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 10201/AB to Question 10662/J by Mr Öllinger, Mr Mauthausen, Mrs Gaskammer-Leignung. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15066	It is proposed that the debate on points 4 to 6 and 7 and 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15091	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 101, FPÖ 94, Green 79 as well as NEOS and Team Stronach each 41 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 21 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on these speaking times. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:40:18]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “For Austria – Work Programme of the Federal Government 2017/2018”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15134	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these declarations, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request put forward here. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15161	Mr President. Dear Members of the House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and also my very dear ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! The Austrian Federal Government has completed an intensive negotiation process in recent days. The aim of this process has been to redefine the government programme for the next 18 months. We have drawn up a total of 46 measures in this process, concrete timetables, concrete objectives, concrete cost proposals and also a roadmap to ensure the financing of these projects. The entire Federal Government is behind this programme and has agreed to implement it consistently over the next 18 months. If you look at the main pillars of this programme, you can see that it clearly focuses on strengthening our economy and creating jobs. It is about massively supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a foundation for a substantial change in climate and energy policy. We are talking about a new way of thinking about setting up companies. We are concerned with modernising our education systems, and we are also concerned with ensuring greater security for the Austrian population and tackling the great political challenge of integration. However, we are also dealing with very specific improvements to a population group, which is the majority in our country and which is still structurally disadvantaged: for women. We are dealing with very specific measures to help older people, and we are also dealing with ambitious proposals addressing the disciples. I have experienced in recent days – and yesterday with interest followed the reactions to this programme – that we have held an intensive public debate on who invented which parts of the program, which manuscript it carries. And it was quite interesting to see that the colleagues from NEOS meant yes, we wanted some sort of thing. The Greens have rightly pointed out that elements of this programme can also be found in their respective policy objectives. Team Stronach and FPÖ have made similar contributions to this. For me, it is important to note here that we, as the Austrian Federal Government, deliberately did not negotiate and propose a SPÖ programme, nor did we negotiate and propose an ÖVP programme, but it is a programme that is very concrete in trying to solve problems and bring our country forward in different areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The aim is to implement as many good ideas as possible. Since we are not the custodians and inventors of these ideas alone, it is also an invitation to all the forces in this house to provide further ideas, better ideas that we can implement together. I am concerned that we do not invest our energy in preventing – we only know too well that this happens often enough, sometimes in open battles, sometimes behind the bushes – but that we find ourselves in the realization of common good ideas. If you can look at this programme and perhaps focus on several priorities, you can see, as I have emphasized, that it is our first concern to strengthen our economy and create jobs. And if you look at the logic of these 46 proposals, that's like a red thread through the entire program. It has been very important to us that we naturally want to relieve the labour factor and promote those companies that create jobs in our country. And that is why the biggest measure, probably the most cost-intensive measure, is the employment bonus to be paid to those who are willing to create jobs where we are willing to finance half of the additional wage costs for new jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also decided very consciously to promote investment by industrial, small and medium-sized enterprises. We have also decided very consciously and have done quite ambitious things to reduce regulation and bureaucracy in our country, points that hinder companies in their activities. However, we have also said quite clearly that our objective can only be to stimulate the economy and to ensure that companies create jobs in our country. But we know that a good part of unemployment has structural causes. That is why we have also dealt with the question of what we must do to counter this structurally. We have thus developed a programme aimed at helping 20,000 people over 50 people back into the labour market. I think this is a very crucial challenge because it is about giving people a perspective again, giving them self-esteem, showing them that they are not part of old iron, but that we cannot give up their knowledge and experience at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, I should like to point out a point that has been last discussed: The protection of termination for those who are over 50 and have a job remains unchanged, as for all others. But what we have considered together was to put in place a measure to make it easier for older people to return to the labour market. Accordingly, in those who start new jobs and are in this age category, we have set out to consider making simplifications that will ultimately have the goal of making it more attractive for companies to force people of this age group to stop again. The second big block that we have been dealing with in addition to work and employment and the economy is the large area that one could overtitle with: We are trying to make Austria fit for the future and consistently accept the challenges that come to us in a digitalised, globalized world. This is, of course, the focus of education. If you look at this programme of the Federal Government, you can see that we are trying in a variety of ways to give answers here. This starts, for example, with our clear commitment to the special importance of teaching and skilled workers in Austria. We know that this is an essential part of our future competitiveness. This is something that distinguishes us from many other countries. That is why we have said that we want to make teaching more attractive and, accordingly, the measures in the programme look forward to. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we also have the common understanding that if we want to improve the quality of education in the country, we must start as early as possible, and we have therefore understood the need to introduce a second mandatory free kindergarten year. Not only because this is a contribution to increase women's employment and employment, but above all because we know that it improves education quality and that education careers can start much earlier. Moreover, this is also an important contribution to improving the integration of non-German-speaking children into our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also come to know that digitalisation must not only take place in business and society, but also that we must bring it into our classrooms. We have therefore decided not only to equip our schools with wireless LAN, with a specific schedule, all classrooms, but also to ensure that the corresponding devices are available, namely tablets and laptops. This is not about the fact that this is a great distribution or gift action, but about the fact that we want to transform the entire pedagogical concepts, from the education of teachers to what happens in the classroom, and thus want to revolutionize them. We have also understood how to teach our universities better and to place them on the principle of achievement, by agreeing on a social adjustment of scholarships. But education is not the only topic for the future, but it is a challenge which we see in many different places and which we must meet. Such a body is, of course, climate change. [[Abg. Brunner: There's nothing in there!]] And so, in this programme, you will also find measures to bring about a significant change in energy policy by making it clear that we are committed to developing renewable energy sources as efficiently as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] You will also find an extensive initiative in this programme, where, after a first wave of support for new start-ups and start-ups, we want to build on it again and consistently develop this idea here, because the company has a special job dynamics and a lot of future prospects. And you also find similar things about social housing. If you look at these measures we are planning in the energy sector that we are planning in the housing sector that we are planning on starting up, then you will be able to see another manuscript in this programme, and that is that we are trying to achieve as much employment and growth effects as possible through meaningful regulation, without having to invest tax money for them. We have, of course, also dealt with the question of the third great pillar: How can we improve justice and fairness in our country? In this context, we have also discussed with the social partners and have discussed a number of questions: the flexibility of working time and a question that I personally care about: How can we achieve as quickly as possible that no one earns less than €1500 in Austria at 40 hours of work, full-time work? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have clear consensus and clear understanding in the Austrian Federal Government that we are moving forward these measures and have a clear timetable by the middle of the year until when we reach this goal. This will, if you look at the structure of this group of people who today earn less than € 1,500, of course, to a great extent help women. Two thirds of those involved in this segment are known to be women. In the end, however, it will also be a contribution that we hope to be able to realize it together with the social partners and in the broadest possible social consensus. However, women are not only beneficiaries of this 1 500-€ minimum wage theme, but of course also the 50-plus programme. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Actually families! Not just the women! Actually, the families!]] We know that women especially often change from unemployment to retirement. Women are beneficiaries of the improved childcare opportunities we want to introduce. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Fathers and mothers are beneficiaries, not just women!]] Whatever I am grateful for, it is that it has become possible for us to ultimately make the women's quota on a subject beyond the public economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two more points, which are very important and which make up our joint work programme. Security is one of the most important issues and one of the most important priorities of the Austrian Federal Government. We clearly acknowledge that we have our population to protect. This means that we also have to deal with the question of how we can best guarantee this in the face of changed threat images. This means, for me, that we clearly also improve the protection of those who make every day sure that people in Austria can live safely. That's the state representatives, that's before the police. It is also important for us, however, that in the fight against crime, we extend the possibilities we provide to our investigative bodies. In recent hours, we have had intensive discussions on how this can be done effectively. For me, first of all, it is crucial that, in all these considerations, it is logical and imperative that the rule of law and the regulations we have for this should of course be observed and that, of course, no one has broken his head over unsustainable, unorganized mass surveillance. But what we already need to break our heads is that the technological possibilities that our police have today are not enough, not enough at every point in order to be able to fight crime effectively. I expressly acknowledge that, if it is possible with judicial permission to listen to homes and offices of criminal suspects, it must also be natural to do so in cars. And I also acknowledge that, if it is legally approved as part of the prosecution, it is possible to listen to telephones with the same phone, not unobserved by WhatsApp, Facebook or other messenger services. And I also think it is a matter of course and a consequence of the experience of our police that when buying prepaid sim cards, we demand a card card because we know that's a loophole that facilitates criminals' activity and their actions. All of this we have to discuss with an eye. All of this we have to discuss within the framework of the rules of our rule of law. But in the sense of the responsibility that we as the Federal Government have for the security of people, I think it is a matter of course that we give the police these opportunities and thus make evident gaps in common. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have discussed a fifth point very intensively and have found solutions. We know that the question of immigration, the escape is a political issue for all of us. This is a question that will not be over tomorrow, which will not be over in the foreseeable future, because we know that the reasons that trigger the phenomenon will be sustainable and the fight requires enormous effort. But from my point of view, it is a problem or a challenge that consists of two main parts. One thing is: How do we deal with the people who come to us and of whom we know that they will remain part of our society? And the second question is of course: How do we ensure that we can actually deal with this need for integration? What you see in this paper is a commitment to integration, to forced integration, but at the same time also a commitment to regulate immigration and to reduce it to integrable sizes. What we have done with this package is, I think, a really important progress, because this package will give us the first time the opportunity to start as early as possible with this integration performance. We do not want people who come to us to lose months, maybe even years, until we begin to take care of them to our society. This means as early as possible German courses, means as early as possible value courses, but also means that we expect an integration obligation not only to be one-sided, but that everyone who comes to us also undertakes to contribute to this agreement. This also means, from my point of view, that it is not only about language and values, but, of course, also about the labour market. That is why we have agreed that non-profit work must be part of the year of integration with which we meet the challenge of integration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This was an intensive discussion process, where, of course, it is not only about the integration of immigrants or refugees, but also about the interests of the Austrian population. That is why I think it is a good compromise that we have said yes to non-profit work, yes, this should happen, for example, in the context of civil service, but we do not create a second labour market with one-euro jobs, where we must worry that this will ultimately have a negative effect on all those who have been in our country for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This was a difficult discussion process, and I very much appreciate that we were able to find ourselves here with our negotiators from the ÖVP, and vice versa, of course, it is so that each side has to make its contribution so that it can find solutions. Accordingly, we have also discussed the question of religious symbols in public space and have known to us that we are an open, plural society and have the common understanding that we are firmly opposed to political Islamism, that we oppose Salafism. That is why we are also committed to halting Koran distribution actions, and that is why we have also said that we need to reorientate the issue of the ban on full veiling. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They also find a point in this programme, which says that the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges that there should be religious neutrality in the state field, in the field of justice, in the area of the federal army and in the area of police. And I would like to stress here at this point: This is a principle that I support, fully and completely support, but which is not unilaterally directed against individual religions. And I do not think it is a good discussion – I would like to carry it out at this point – if we take out only one aspect here, such as the headscarf, and thus send a signal to 600 000 of our citizens who are of Muslim origin, thus expressing that they are not an acceptable part of our society. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have had an intensive negotiation process. A very good program has been created that takes many challenges of our time into concrete action. It is of course a programme that will focus on the next 18 months of cooperation in the Austrian Federal Government. Of course, there are many projects that go beyond this time, and of course we are also aware that these projects are also necessary to deal with them, that we must put the rails and the routes in this direction accordingly. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You will find in this program many points that connect together with what you have thought was right in the past. And I think that this is a really good basis. It is true that we are extending our hand towards the opposition to work together for Austria on the measures, perhaps adding one or the other, perhaps even making this even better. But I don't think it makes any sense to compete here, as far as the questions are concerned: Who has won?, Who has found himself better where in what detail?, and thus only so much that we can re-establish each other's opinion without in any form achieving progress for the people in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would ask you to join us in implementing this programme and to make it as far as possible for Austria to become reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15331	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is now speaking. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15352	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the gallery and perhaps still in front of the TV screens! [[Abg. Kickl: That's live,...!]] We live in very uncertain times. Many have noticed this, and this is of course known to all Members when he participates in events such as: How's our economy going? What is to be expected about the dangers of terrorism and others in this context? What about our environment, global warming and other questions that affect the future very intensively? – It has of course spread such a thing as fear of the future in the population. Therefore, I believe that it is the excellent task of policy to offer security, which is what the design of the future is about to offer prospects, what future design is about, and also to find and develop together what the foundations and components of our common society are. I believe that in our society a very, very important basis is a meaningful work, whether it is now touching self-employed, self-employed or farmers. We must try to ensure that the future perspective is just given. That is why we in the Federal Government have also tried to create a joint programme for the coming months, actually for the coming years, in order to ensure that this future is also highlighted for the population with some clarity. I believe that we have been quite successful when I reflect on what the evaluation by specialist institutes and others is doing. For example, the head of the IHS meant: Yes, the economic plans make sense, and they are also refinancing when the corresponding effects occur! The Uniko President Vitouch made a positive statement on the subject of funding for study places. The Austrian Internet offensive has welcomed a number of things in this context. So, of course, it is clear that many have actually expressed themselves positively, and I think it speaks for the quality of the programme that they have done so. In the final effect, it is a programme for Austria, and it is good for someone to find themselves in it, because it is intended to bring Austria forward. On the other hand, I also believe that no one has to apologize if he finds his ideas in the program. It's nothing bad. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know the old saying: “Mater semper certa est, Father incertus.” – You can remember how we argued about who invented the discharge. Ladies and gentlemen! But so that what has shaped us now and what is right from our point of view – and I can confirm the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and, in part, from my point of view – is right. We have also seen that a very important factor for a society that has a safe perspective is the economy, namely the economy that does not start with entrepreneurship, but rather in a healthy attitude, which starts work, which leads to further development and, above all, community life, actually in kindergarten. After the family there is a very important step towards society and community. That is why I think it is very positive that we have succeeded in ensuring the financing of the second kindergarten year for all across Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why is that so important? – Because, of course, there is also the mark for the further life and, of course, the knowledge that one is successful in one's life is also imparted. But we have also seen what the companies are doing – and that was, I think, not always easy for the partner – that we have to force the economy. Why do we have to force business? – Because it is the basis for jobs. I believe that the link between economics and jobs, especially in times when we are experiencing efforts against CETA and others, should also stop us to highlight precisely these effects on the employment of small and medium-sized enterprises, because otherwise many have the impression: Maybe it's just about large businesses? Maybe it's just about the profits of them? – No, it’s not about this! It is about jobs, about our economy, which is largely formed by small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: I can only underline what has been said here: In fact, apprentices are incredibly important for the quality of what the work is going to do. With Erasmus+, we have the opportunity not only to exchange students, we have now expanded this to include language training. I think that is a very important factor. Why? – Europe can only be experienced if you really go to Europe and there acquire mobility, the competence to live together. I think that is the most important basis, better than many other measures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, in order to ensure that what has influenced us is that we increase the research premium and others, we also carry out a reduction in the additional wage costs. We do not do this as a self-evident, so that the entrepreneurs can make more profit. We also have a programme point in our plan for Austria, which is: We really want to have higher minimum wages! But I can only have higher minimum wages if I take account of the operational events. Wages and jobs are very easy results of a business process. If all the other conditions are right, this process will also be easier. We have, I think, also chosen the right process: We have collective partnership in Austria, collective contractual partners. And they've taken over it to address that very thing. I think we have seen it at 1 000 € minimum wage that could also work 1 500 € minimum wage – market economy, with the help of a general collective agreement. I think that this too is a very important step that we have taken together. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] When we talk about jobs and when we realize that the process in businesses has long been no longer the uniform, rigid one, as it was 30, 40 years ago – in mines or elsewhere – but that we have to be more flexible everywhere with digitalization, the Internet, even with the possibility of working from home, then it is important that we consider mobility premiums here, but also the possibility of flexibilising working time. And some find it bad that the social partners are involved, but I think that is important. It is not only about the decision-making of us and Parliament, but above all about the fact that this must then be lived – and integrative implementation in the establishments can only be achieved. Sometimes the project has already been commented on with the argument: We know, but now we also have a timetable for this. I see both points, both minimum wage and flexibility, in this precise definition as a progress. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the economy in connection with jobs is now different, I would say works, more developing, then of course it must also be done for those who are difficult to mediate in the area of over 50-year-olds. There it was difficult for us to see a project where one says that this is actually happening next to the labour market – but it is also a good basis, a good attempt. There too we moved and found a solution. She could work and she should work. I believe that this too will help us to start new attempts with new projects in this area of older unemployed people. They deserve to get not only money but also a meaningful activity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to expand the business sector now, but perhaps one should be mentioned – and we did not happen to have the Minister of Finance in the negotiation team –: It is about financing, but it is also about the fact that all those who participate in the whole process – entrepreneurs, farmers, self-employed and unself-employed – want to have more in the wallet, of course. Therefore, the solution we have found to combat cold progression is a continuation, a positive one. There will be more money in the bag for people. We need it for consumption, we need it for investment. I see this agreement as very important progress. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a second point that has been raised. We need, I think, not to argue about it at all, everyone has seen it: No longer the resources that raw materials arrive – as before – but technology, innovation and human capital are the basis for competitiveness. That is why we are doing exactly what is going on in the field of education – there are ongoing projects where we want to demand and promote, especially as regards technology development and universities. I have already mentioned the research premium, but I must mention in particular the entire digitalization and internet offensive, which will bring us new companies in a very important competitive area. A great deal is already being done here, and I believe that we will support it together. Not yet addressed is a difficult project, which is called study site financing. With this, many connect that now access to universities would be so limited that social blending would no longer be possible. I'll tell you: That's wrong! We want a good control. We want those who have the qualifications to have the opportunity to continue with good care relationships themselves and Austria. That's why this project is going on! This is an international project already adopted in many countries. We want to promote quality and not limit quantity, so this issue, on which we have agreed, is a very important one. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have spoken of security and I do not want to expand this point because the Federal Chancellor has emphasized it intensively and has presented some measures, but also our view is: We have an open society, and in an open society it is important to deal with each other. That is why the questions that now stir many as much, such as the Burka problem, which appears quantitatively to the few as if it were not affecting anyone, are also questions with symbolic value in our society as to how we deal with each other. And in an open society where I should be able to communicate with everyone, the Von-Facial-To-Facial-Communication is a very important factor. Therefore, this measure is also part of the Integration Act for an open society and is an announcement that has more than a quantitative background. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we read the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” today, then we can say that we are exactly the same line as Mrs Bun-Deskanzler Merkel: There must be no general suspicion. There must be no flat-rate pre-judgment. There must be a meaningful balance between the right to freedom, on the one hand, and security on the other. The case-by-case procedure, which always requires individual evaluations, is a very important key for all the projects we have found here. That is why I believe that we have really been very good at this – detailed implementation then in Parliament. Secondly, We have also seen as an open society, we must give protection to those who need protection, but we must also ensure that those who are in the country have no residence permit that is not right in our society to leave our country again. That too is what we have planned, and I think it is legitimate in the sense of security to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also discussed the subject of global warming and future security in this area. I would just like to take this as a matter of course, but it is important – I know we could discuss this widely, and we will do so on other occasions. I believe that the common climate and energy strategy will solve and also occupy many points in this area. However, I would also like to point out the problem of electricity development: It is not only about cheap and safe power supply, it is also about taking those who have invested in the market with them if there are problems with tariffs. I mean biogas plants – a painful problem, we know, but they have not been able to estimate the development of tariffs either. This is about existence, and we are now solving this question with each other, but with it also the concerns of the future of these companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the final question. It is already presented so much, from plans to programmes to others: Does that really interest people? Is it not more worthwhile to discuss anything else? I would really say it is the central point we are discussing here today! Why? – Mark Twain already said: “Of course, I’m interested in the future. After all, I want to spend the rest of my life in it.” – Of course! In a sense, balance sheets are always tiring, the future is interesting. And that's why I believe that... – The present is coming again, it is contained in every second future! [[Abg. Kickl: That's not right! Mark Twain lives in the present, always!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why it is important not to go pointless, but systematic. The second question we are asked – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, all who sit here, but also the opposition – is: Does that even work? Will this be implemented at all? – I think better than any idea, better than any punctual measure is a system. We have time-consuming plans here, we have a clear structure. I'm sure that could and should work. I thank all those involved who have jointly developed this claim – many have been involved – and appeal to all – to us as government parties, but also to the opposition – to contribute this and many others. I think it should be useful for Austria and will be useful for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15498	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15519	Mr. National Council President! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, beautiful and anointing words we have heard today on the occasion of the hundredth restart of this red and black federal government – for: For ten years there has been government responsibility in this constellation. For over three years, there has been a government programme, which also includes many good and right points, but we have had to miss out on the implementation. Now we have the felt hundredth restart and a compromise paper, which, of course, needs to be kept in mind that the question will be: What's this paper worth? Of course, it will only be shown in the legal implementation whether or not You're changing anything. And because today you have rightly spoken of a balance sheet: The record of the past makes this federal government fear bad for the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've got to hold on to that. That's how the nail sample will come. And of course one must also remember that Mr. Kern, in the run-up to this negotiation, gave the impression of starting an attempt towards re-elections for the work agreement. At least it's been a prophylaxis attempt. I'm saying that maybe everything didn't go up the way he imagined it. One has a little the impression that at the end he entered an orientationless slinger course and that – especially since the ÖVP today announces with proudly swollen breast that Mr. Kern has fallen into the direction of ÖVP – some things have gone wrong in the strategy and, of course, also at the SPÖ base probably a little unrest has come in. Werner Faymann – one remembers – in the last eight years in which he held the responsibility, has led to very serious irritations in the SPÖ. After eight months Mr. Kern has also succeeded – you can hold on to this, and this is clearly visible in modern communication in the comments of SPÖ members. The Convention gives a little the impression that the Emperor's new clothes of reform would be. It will be seen if it really does something in the end and whether it will really do exactly that in the implementation. In all cases, the impression is that prosperity, security and good mood – that was the plan A – of the members of the government will be guaranteed even longer; for those who have now secured this with this agreement of work. Whether it will go in this direction in the end, when it comes to real implementation, also for the population, will be seen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Until then, there has been a totally unworthy acting. Many have rightly said that a real restart would have been possible if it had been meant to be honest with new elections. Until now, we have declarations of intent. – I would like to stick to this point: Congratulations and thanks to all the supporters who signed the popular desire against CETA, TTIP and TiSA. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With 526 000 declarations of support, this is a great success. [[Call the FPÖ:Great!]] A great success, which calls on you to take this seriously, to allow a binding polling and referendum on this subject and not to go over the Austrian population. Direct democracy does not occur at all in your work agreement, and that is really terrifying. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] People are rightly asking themselves – consider the past, where one has partly drawn one another through the nostrils and in the truest sense of the word has also lived the possession of power and the obsessiveness of the future: What will change? Let us take a look at the points that have been raised in part today: cold progression – a concrete example of your work agreement. From what you've written down here, you can see that you don't seriously mean it. The necessary fight against cold progression would be due immediately, not only from 2019, not only when a 5-percent inflation has occurred, which can be expected at the earliest after three years, and not only if economic growth is more than one percent, but more generally every year, with automaticism. That's what people need so that there's no cold expropriation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's only half-hearted for you. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That means you'll find it right, but would you like it a little earlier?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: For everyone!]] Let us take the project to reduce taxes and taxes, as follows: Perfectly right, yes, there's really a need for action, you're right. In addition to wage costs, there is an extreme need for action to gradually drive the tax rate from 45 percent to less than 40 percent – but at last something has to happen in the implementation. The Court of Auditors' proposals on administrative reform should also finally be implemented. It would be necessary to set up an interface in Parliament which also deals with draft laws and templates in this direction; that is what does not happen. [[Abg. Moser: There are already!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is there already!]] It is necessary to ensure transparency in subsidies so that there is no double and triple funding. It is necessary to finally put the social security companies together. It is also necessary to consider the compulsory fees of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers and not to maintain them. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] Much is needed to finally get where we want to go, namely to a minimum wage of more than €1 700 gross, which is 1 300 net. Yeah, we want to go there. When it comes to pensioners, we finally want to ensure that a pension price index for those people who have trained and worked for a lifetime is guaranteed as automaticism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – No alms in the form of a one-time 100-€ transfer, as at present. We don't find all that. The topic of pensions has been relocated to the social partners, so to speak. When it comes to the sectoral closure of the labour market towards immigrants, I must say that I do not really find something concrete in this programme. You seem to have fallen over there. Of course, we are importing massive labour market problems from Eastern European Union countries. We have always pointed this out. Although we have had over 240 000 new jobs in Austria over the last six years, 200 000 are occupied by non-Austrians. This shows: We have a labour force oversupply in Austria and we drive people from Austria into unemployment with a record unemployment rate of 470 000. Despite new jobs created over the last six years, we do not manage to bring Austrian unemployed people into these jobs. There you have to counter it, it's necessary and I miss it here. Exports of family allowances: For more than ten years, we have repeatedly been called upon to ensure that children who do not live in Austria do not receive family support in the form. As you have to make differences, over several years hundreds of millions of € in taxpayers' money will be lost. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As part of this programme, it is then announced that there will be a letter from the Austrian proposal to the European Commission by March. That's sweet and nice, but you can't expect anything there. That's what it's been: Last year, the Commission received a letter on this subject, and this was more negative from there. It is a matter of acting legislatively and creating facts in one's own country. To this end, we have made countless applications, so since 2010, there have been a total of over nine requests on this subject that have been rejected. It's really sad if you don't finally go over to the implementation as well. The topic of integration, asylum abuse: Yes, there are steps in the right direction, partly obtrusive, but in the right direction. The headline ban for police women, judges and prosecutors is really sweet, I say, because that's not really a problem there, but it's a step in the right direction. What would be necessary would be the ban on the headscarf of public schools, universities and public services in general. This is necessary because we have specific problems there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's look at the schools! Let us talk to the teachers about what they experience in part and what problems there are! It would be very urgent to implement that and not to make such a pure placebo decision. Of course, the path towards full veiling in public space is absolutely right. I am glad that, although we have rejected our requests in this direction for ten years, against full veiling, we have finally come to the realization that we liberals are right and right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] The fact that the government is committed to reducing migration is also plausible, I just don't know how to do it in concrete terms. Of course, in the past we would have had the opportunity to apply this in accordance with the laws in force so as not to cause the problems we have today. Since 2015, with the illegal immigration that was created and made possible by this government, we have security problems and incredible financial problems in this area. We have an asylum limit of 37 500. The ÖVP has announced a great deal of desire to reduce these significantly – we have always spoken of a zero limit – and now, obviously, there is no even a reduction. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – Yes, if those people who have come to us illegally, or those people who have become criminal here, are still not postponed by a failure of this federal government, then this is really a scandal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you allow criminals to stay here if there are no readmission agreements to date – as Mr Foreign Minister has so far completely failed – then of course you also have to lay down this responsibility. The topic of footbands for so-called hazards: Yes, this is to be welcomed in principle, but this can only be a first step towards a comprehensive anti-terrorism package, because in principle it must be said that for returnees, potential returners of the Islamic State who have been active as terrorists there, of course, a legal regime must apply in such a way that they must be taken into account in U-port, that there must be a return of evidence in the investigation procedure, and that, ultimately, a suspicion which ultimately confirms itself must be ensured that citizenship is withdrawn. This should be a matter of course, but not yet included. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we have the responsibility to protect our people, but we have this responsibility in principle and you have had it in the past. Unfortunately, you have not been concerned about this in the developments from 2015 to today. I say: Important topics that have been addressed, such as minimum wages or pensions, have been outsourced, including the topic of health – a drama. That's where the funding from a pot finally comes from. It finally belongs to a federal uniform hospital planning. Finally, we need to ensure that the natural outcome of the pensioners is a successor in this area too. This is still not guaranteed because many go abroad due to the negative conditions and we have massive problems there. In many areas, I honestly lack faith. Paper is well known to be patient, we'll see if you've really learned. We will see whether you are really willing not only to recognize the problems of people, but also to really tackle them and to live their implementation. If you want to stay with the nuclear flight theory, you can say that you somehow have the impression that this agreement, which is now in place here, is just like Apollo 13: You've just made the landing on Earth, it's gone half way well. Whether this will really be crowned of success in the end will be seen. We must not delay this, because we have enormous problems! Finally, I can only say: Work! Finally, in the interests of the Austrian population, put the content into practice quickly and effectively! I say: If you do not make it and are not willing to work, you should admit it and allow a real restart with new elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15699	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15722	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What we are discussing today and what is available is the “For Austria” programme, a work programme for the next 18 months, a work programme for Austria. This ensures that new elections are from the table and that it is now going to work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The “For Austria” package contains answers to current challenges, and the challenges are large: The world and society are changing rapidly, we are in the midst of a far-reaching change, and that is why the priorities of this programme are crucial to respond to precisely these challenges. 2017, ladies and gentlemen, 2017 is the year of work. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: And 2018?- Oh, my God!]] These are four important areas: Fighting unemployment and creating jobs that stimulate the economy through far-sighted and far-reaching innovations and investment, important reforms in education, and ensuring and expanding security in our country. To say it quite honestly: What I read and mediated yesterday and today in the newspapers, this petty discussion about which the two government parties have more enforced, whose manuscript carries the government programme, I find uninteresting, which I find useless. [[Abg. Strache: It's going on again!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That wasn't a discussion, that was ads!]] [[Abg. Strache: Common ads, that would have been a New Year's deal!]] [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Don't be naughty!]] I think it is important that the programme carries the handwriting and, above all, the signature of all the members of the government, and that is why we, the parliamentary groups of SPÖ and ÖVP, are today bringing forward a motion for a resolution, which makes it clear that we support this programme ‘For Austria’. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's embarrassing, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Pilz: But that's brutal!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We are also on the point of answering the question of what this programme is about: It's about the welfare of our country and it's about the well-being of its population. I would like to stress once again – even if you seem to discuss it intensively –: Whoever has enforced himself is quite clear: Austria has prevailed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The measures are leading the way into the future in key areas. The specific content also holds every critical examination: Growth and employment – a job package with 70 000 new jobs by the end of 2018, created by an employment bonus, starting from 1. July 2017 brings down additional wage costs for each additional job created; an employment guarantee for long-term unemployed over 50 years; the so-called action 20 000, in which 20 000 jobs are created especially for this group of our society; a minimum wage of €1500, which, by the way, benefits 360 000 people. [[Abg. Honey: But this is not an employment guarantee!]] The government has agreed with the social partners that, in line with its responsibility, the social partners will present a proposal for a solution by the middle of this year, as well as the flexibility of working time. The increase in labour market mobility and also the abolition of cold progression are other very important points and impulses for the economy and for people. Further points concern the economic location, the promotion of start-up, 1 billion € of banks and insurance, the more efficient taxation of foreign companies operating in Austria, measures to prevent profit-shifting, the expansion of pay-up, especially as support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as also in the area of start-up funding. In the field of education we enter the age in which the end of the tablet and the beginning of the tablet comes. From 2018 there will be free tablets and laptops in a roll-out program for our students, which will ensure digital basic education from the folk school in our Republic. Similarly, the expansion of school autonomy and broadband will come. The funds for broadband expansion throughout the Republic are doubled to bring ultra-fast Internet to households and schools. By 2020, the provision of broadband for small and medium-sized enterprises will strengthen our economic and educational location and the digital location in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== January 2018 is also a breakthrough in the quality of the first educational institution for families, for our children. It is also a discharge for the fathers and mothers who are aware of this responsibility and take it seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The package for teaching: To make the teaching more attractive, the cost acquisition for the preparation of the course examination and the joint examination and also the expansion of foreign internships for apprentices are very important points. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the field of equality, we join where other countries like Germany are already, because we are finally also applying a rate of 30 percent to the supervisory councils of large listed and private companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: But exactly 30 percent!]] In the same way, in the security and integration areas, we finally do what we have been talking about for a long time: Integration, German courses, training, qualification and value courses starting from the first day, not only as a political commitment, but also as an implementation measure financed with €100 million available for this purpose. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also true, however, that, for example, projects on return advice and extended return for those people who have not received asylum in Austria, who have received a negative notice, will work to get them to leave our country in a decent way. This too is part of a functioning asylum system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is this, a ‘mendable kind’?]] Let me also talk about the methodology, because the implementation of these concrete measures, which have been discussed in detail, is also accompanied by a specific timetable – from the decision in the Council of Ministers on treatment in Parliament until the entry into force. Each measure is budgetaryly covered, all budgetary costs are debated and also counter-financed. This ensures: 2017 may be the year of work. Together with the government and Parliament, this package will be implemented, piece by piece, day by day, area for field, for government work, as well as Parliament's work, is an orchestral piece and not a solo piece. The conductors among us know exactly what I mean in this regard. [[Call to the FPÖ:Who is the conductor?]] It is a red and white-red orchestra, and it is a score for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e15981	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16173	I can tell you that a request has been put to the vote by name and that we will therefore proceed in this way. [[Abg. Brosz: Does the Sobotka have to vote as well?]] Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported next word. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can go down the sound level a little, for which I would be very grateful to you. [[Abg. Lugar: These are your own delegates!]] Thank you, Mr Lugar, for taking care of your order. Klubobmann Arbitrator has closed his speech by saying that 2017 is to be the year of work. I think you already have a certain understanding for us as an opposition and for the fact that the spectacle we have experienced in recent months has caused great irritation not only to us but, I believe, to the population as a whole. If 2017 is to be the year of work now, what was 2016, what was 2015, what was 2014? – This great coalition has been in office since 2013 and actually has the task of solving the most pressing problems in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Halligalli!]] We have always stretched out our hands, and we have indeed said, especially after the government reform last May, that we are interested in facilitating the lives of people in Austria, whether these are the problems in school, whether they are the problems in the labour market, whether they concern the environment, whether they are the question of income or whether they are the housing situation. In any case, we are willing to cooperate in solutions, and have stretched out our hands. Unfortunately, I have to say something disappointed: We have noticed very little of this new style here in Parliament. Until the last week, until today, there was exactly the same old style: Any idea that came from the opposition that came from us was de facto Childishly voted down or postponed. There was no orientation, which is now really something worthy of discussion, which is something in which one can find common solutions. If you are talking about a new beginning, you should also make a fresh start here in Parliament, namely to introduce a new style in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The impression we've got in the last few days was that at least after the election of Van der Bellen to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, there was something like harmony. There was somehow the impression that you really want to work together and use the last months, all the more surprising then came at the beginning of last week this general attack. I think an interpretation is – and you have to say it: It was planned to actually choose in May. It was your plan, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, to actually go to new elections. This may have failed because there has also been resistance in its own ranks. But now you have committed yourself to working 18 months – not only in 2017, but also in 2018 – for the population. I think the population doesn't care who's tried it now or whether the coalition is saved. It wasn't us who were assigned that was a success of the ÖVP or that was a success of the SPÖ. That's what you were! The ÖVP has placed ads, the SPÖ-Federal Managing Director has emphasized the red manuscript. But that is, I think, really secondary and irrelevant at the moment. If we take care of ourselves, we strive to improve the life situation of the Austrians, and that without delay. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The end of this refusal to work is good. The fact that you have made reforms is also good, but you have to look carefully at what are really the most pressing questions. In terms of content, I would like to address a few points critically, in all constructiveness. I repeat our offer: When it comes to improving the living situation, we are willing to talk about solutions, make them possible and decide on them too. They have put women in the foreground, Federal Chancellor. One of the main measures concerning the life situation of women in Austria, you have described, would be a minimum wage. My questions to you and to the entire Federal Government are: Why is this issue, the solution to this question, now being transferred to a working group to the social partners? Why wait half a year for this subject to be addressed? We have been watching this for many years. 1 500 € come years too late! We are now in a completely different situation. 1 500 € means less than 10 € net the hour. I think we should not believe it women, young people, even men, in Austria, that in addition to a 40-hour job, they have to take on a side job in order to be able to afford living, rent, living, and perhaps additional training. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why we'd wish we could take care of this. Why talk longer? Let's really get this straight. This is a real topic of life for more than 400,000 people in Austria. What you have unfortunately excluded from the question of social justice – and this is unfortunate – is: For what do people who move in this minimum wage area spend most of the money? That is, I think, a simple question. The simple answer to this is: for living, of course. In 2013 you have written in your joint government agreement a novel of rental law, finally, also a relief for tenants, many good suggestions. Until today, this coalition has failed to agree on a rental reform. The rental law reform is now no longer in this programme for 2017 and 2018. However, I consider it to be one of the essential issues of life to allow the living of the living room – especially in the agglomerations, especially in the cities. Living has become luxury for young families. Half to two-thirds of the income is spent on living on it. I think that this is a real omission of an essential question of social justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minimum wages and housing, these are, I believe, the topics that we need to look at more intensively. They have talked a lot about work or the labour market, about economics and economic opportunities, there is much in it that we can also support. A basic story, however, is missing: If you are talking about the abolition of cold progression when you are talking about older workers on the labour market, when you are talking about what small and small businesses and what medium-sized enterprises need, then you also need to talk about tax reform, tax structural reform. Our entire social system is financed almost exclusively by taxes based on the labour factor. If you do not address this, then the whole issue of eliminating cold progression is based on a completely false old system, and that is not going to happen for the next two years, even if the question of ecologisation is not addressed simultaneously, an essential failure would be. I urge you not to exclude this tax-structural reform, but to really renegotiate and re-establish it. In addition, our proposals are on the table and it would be worth being taken up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Environmental and climate policy: You know, we're the party that has to push this forward. What is now being found in this program are new headings that camouflage an old thinking. Unfortunately, I have to put it that way. Of course, we are involved in any innovation, but as you have formulated it now – cheap electricity tariffs for industry, climate protection almost as a threat, environmentally harmful subsidies are not attacked, not taken up – the main objective is to pursue only the EU objectives. Even the Faymann target – and this is already remarkable, Werner Faymann has formulated, we would like 100 percent renewable energy sources in the field of electricity supply in Austria – have replaced you with the following goal: 100 percent of Austrian electricity. You can create any electricity in Austria, you can also use coal, with oil – I don't know what else – to generate electricity. This is not a quality criterion. It's really about this big energy turnaround, and Austria is supposed to be with the renewables. [[Abg. Schönegger: You are always against it when something is!]] - No, we're totally for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Complain with your Mr. Federal Chancellor! I still have to say a sentence regarding this small barn between biomass and wind: Mr. Bundeskanzler, that you took up this dispute so much, that's class war thinking. Add to the biomass, it's completely superfluous. We need all renewable energy sources to move forward the energy transition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: This also applies to hydropower!]] The sentence allows me: In your speech to say that the pensionerIn the forest property, so to speak, the price of the eco electricity, is really something to put in front position, which is no longer in front position. The renewables have lowered the energy prices, the electricity prices in Austria, they ensure security of supply in our grid, and all of them include the wind, the photovoltaics as well as biomass. To give everyone a place would actually be a modern understanding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Mrs. Glavischnig, let's talk about hydropower!]] By the way, how does the halve of the flight charge fit? – We know that traffic and air traffic are two of the drivers with regard to CO2. I also wonder why the Austrian tourism industry is not yelling. We have a problem, we know what holiday is like in Austria compared to cheap international flights. If this is to be further discounted, I am surprised that the ÖVP tourism industry is not yelling at why one does not put more emphasis on its own location. We know what problems we have with the cooks and in the hospitality with the wages. To further down, I really don't understand my logic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: What about the hydropower?]] But I do not want to be too negative; it is always difficult. It would be nice if you had written a large, positive European political picture into this work programme. Unfortunately, this is not the case. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Oh yes!]] - No, I don't. I'm going to give you an example, because I always have to think about that. Perhaps read the “Small Children’s Newspaper ” of the “Small Newspaper. ” There is currently an article about children in Romania that their parents, their mothers, for weeks, do not see for months because these are doing 24-hour care – including in Austria. Exactly these mothers who want to make 24-hour care with us You actually say they don't deserve that their children receive exactly the same child allowance as Austrian children, although these women pay exactly the same contribution to the Austrian social system? I always get a goose skin when I think of the situation that you work as a mother or as a father for weeks and months in another European country and your children cannot see. That's exactly what you'd meet. It is, I think, one of the achievements of the European Union that we have free movement of workers. We are trying to balance this gap, we are working together on a social European Union. They are working back at the moment, and this is already remarkable, especially for a social democracy, I must say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question will be what these things really bring to the ground. [[Abg. Wooker: Everything!]] I repeat: With all the criticism – this is also our task – we are of course ready to work on solutions. [[Abg. Wöginger: We need a two-thirds majority anyway!]] I am very pleased that we have succeeded in finding a common initiative on a foreign policy issue, which, I believe, is making us all mad at the moment. When you look at Donald Trump in the USA the first week, you really get the horror. For those who can still support Donald Trump, I really wonder: Where are you at home? I mean, that's beyond, absolutely beyond. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is Donald Trump. [[Abg. Wheeler: If he hears that!]] The current action to prevent, in some cases even European citizens, despite valid entry documents, despite valid residence permits on entry is really inconceivable. I am pleased that we have succeeded in establishing a joint resolution in this regard. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a good initiative, and I would also like to see more cooperation in this area, more joint action when it comes to defending Europe, our values and our attitudes towards an American President, who is still supported by the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16454	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16538	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16559	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The extensive work programme for the years 2017 and 2018 presented yesterday by the Austrian Federal Government is noteworthy. Mr Glavischnig, there is nothing left to be desired in the chapter on Europe. It is a clear commitment by this Federal Government to active and self-confident cooperation in this European Union. Maybe you haven't read this, but you can't formulate it more clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Not just I say that. The result can be seen!, the editor-in-chief of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, Manfred Perterer, puts it to the fore today. Claus Pándi, too, rightly notes in the “Kronen Zeitung” that the coalition agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP does not mention new taxes, “just as the bone-dry conservative Hans Jörg Schelling had always wanted,” Pándi writes. – So there are no inheritance taxes, no wealth taxes, no machine taxes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Now it is more about what is in it, and not about what is not in it.]] – We want to relieve and not burden. The 35-page work programme presented here by Federal Chancellor Christian Kern and Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner provides proof that this Federal Government wants to work together for our country and will also jointly implement what is defined here according to a precise timetable. [[Abg. Strache: Powers together ads!]] Don't worry, we, the government groups, are sure of it, even here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We are patient anyway, we have been patient for years!]] The focus from our point of view is on three essential tasks for this Federal Government: firstly to strengthen our location in terms of business and work, secondly to give people security in the country and thirdly to achieve sustainable solutions when it comes to education, science, innovation and environmental issues. First point: the economy. There should be more jobs through more growth and at the same time less bureaucracy. These are the success factors. What we now have in this programme, for which the vice-president Reinhold Mitterlehner has long fought for, is now in this large package. There is this relief in the case of additional wage costs through the employment bonus, and that is very important. We need more jobs. I agree a hundred percent with Klubobmann Schieder, which is the big goal and the first objective of this work programme, these 70 000 additional jobs. That's the first point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Common ads Arbitrators/Lopatka!]] It's not like we're starting with zero. After all, we have already decided to cut extra wage costs in the order of € 1 billion. I think it is right that we should involve the social partners. I don't think that's negative. There is a possibility by June that the social partners, who have great competence in this field, will present us with appropriate models when it comes to wage issues when it comes to working time schemes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I'm sure you'll succeed. Should I be deceived, there will be a solution here in Parliament. That's a good way of doing this. The fact that we are for a corresponding minimum wage is quite clear to us. We say: It's got to pay off when you go to work. There must be a difference between those living from the minimum guarantee and those living on a minimum income. It is right to apply this minimum wage accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But also for the pensioners! Don't forget the pensioners!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The speech by Hans Jörg Schelling has a very important point: the abolition of the cold progression. We have also found ourselves there, and it will come to the abolition of the cold progression. We should all be happy if each individual then has more money in his stock exchange, because of course this helps to boost consumption and to achieve a positive economic development overall. The second important area: safety. A German newspaper today titles: ‘Jackpot for the Interior Minister’. – Yes, it is indeed true that this comprehensive security package has achieved something. This is a big step towards effective action against terrorism and crime. There is a whole bunch of measures, which will actually make Austria's most comprehensive arrangements within the European Union. There is more video surveillance, Klubobmann Strache has already addressed the shackles for hazards, a strengthening of border controls, more stringent procedures in asylum procedures, a new model to combat Internet crime and also a new model for data storage. This is very important in order to be able to act effectively against criminals, against terrorists. [[Abg. Strache: Checkpoint Wolfgang!]] We have also included in the government programme – I may quote – a significant reduction in the number of migrants arriving in our country, and also in those who are illegally residing in Austria. Another point: Since summer, the Integration and Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz has been working for the Integration Act. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is he at all?]] I am glad that we are adopting this regulation concerning full veiling and also the Salafist-motivated distribution actions. We do not want to allow a counter-society in Austria and we want to defend the beginnings, therefore a clear yes to this total ban on veiling from our side, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also address the third point, these sustainable regulations in education and also in the university field. If we now come to a regulation on the funding of study places, including these additional admission procedures and access schemes at universities, then it is very important to be at the forefront of the international conference. If the research premium is increased, it strengthens the location, as education, science, innovation and research are key factors. As far as the environment and energy are concerned – Minister Rupprechter is one of those who has made the relevant points in the negotiations – we have agreed to do so in order to position Austria as a model country in the field of sustainability. Coming to the end: What does that mean? – There is a comprehensive work programme. Talks have been made. Everything has its hour. The time of the speeches is over, now is the time of implementation. [[Abg. Oils: That's what the right one says!]] We will do everything we can to ensure that this precise timetable, which is set, is also observed. We want to be measured in terms of implementation, and I hope that in some project or other, the opposition is also ready to support us in the implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16742	Mr Klubobmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e16763	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! We are discussing the update of the government programme here in Parliament. And yes, I think, Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you yourself feel that there is no energy in space. That's... [[Abg. Strache: I love I can fly...!]] – Well, it's... [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Strache:...served wings!]] No, no, the air's outside. [[Call:Yes, for the opposition, but...]] If you are honest, you know, Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, also Mr. Lopatka: You're riding a dead horse here. And only desperate Indians ride dead horses. So if you'd feel a little bit, you'd know you'd be freed from dead horses, but you wouldn't ride them. You decide, okay, you're riding a dead horse now. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Leverkas!]] That's okay, you can do it. It's not very pitiful, but yes, you have to admit, Andreas Schieder, the saddle that you put on this dead horse, he's not even so opposed. This programme of work, which you are presenting here, is certainly something that is necessary, and I do not want to hide it either. Today, I also made a phase-by-step statement on each individual speech, because everyone had some point inside, where something is right – whether that was the German Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, whether that was the FPÖ chief, the Green Chef or the club members of SPÖ and ÖVP. Yes, there is also something right there: Studienplatzfinanz – all times. That's a proposal we've been making for years. Of course, the Austrian universities need a professional control to find the international connection. Number of hours of value courses up – all times. We have called for this in the last few weeks; we should do that. German from the first hour in Austria: Of course, that would be important for integration to work later. But that's when it starts, and you don't do that with this government program 2.0 either: Four Ministries are still in charge of German courses in this government. With you, the left hand doesn't know what makes the right one, and that's why it won't work really well in the implementations. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And then, of course, there are also a few common places, for example Wi-Fi for schools. I mean, if McDonald's can do that for five years, in every branch in Austria, then we don't have to do that as a highlight of the government programme. Wi-Fi for all schools, this is a matter of course, that must go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] [[Interlude remarks by the Federal Minister of Lightfried and Schelling.]] [[Abg. Strache: It is important that everyone learns to read and write!]] For example, that with Erasmus+ you finally also promote foreign stays for apprentices is good and important and overdue, but it is not a highlight. It's easy to do. For apprentices, it would be important to push ahead with the quality assurance of teaching, but this is, of course, blocked by the social partners. And so there are many points that hurt, especially those points that do not appear in this Convention of Labour. Mr Loacker described what is happening in the health field: They adhere to the expensive structures. The Court of Auditors expects us to: Every citizen, every citizen in this country, could have €1,200 more in the wallet at the same quality. They adhere to the expensive structures: 34 health insurance companies with the special institutions, and all have a fleet, all have a president, all have a director. What does that mean? - Cheap structures. This, of course, leads to uneven benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] You also hold on to these, and that means sluggish savings in patients. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Bitch.]] Sit in an ambulance in the AKH, in the clinic in Innsbruck or elsewhere, and then see that the patient is not doing well. Long waiting times for this, for that – there is just a lot wrong. [[Abg. Wöginger: Have you ever been to another country?]] [[Abg. I'll be right back! No OP dates...!]] The second point that has not occurred is the pensions. Don't attack them. Sebastian Kurzist is unfortunately not there today, but as a deputy party observer of the ÖVP, as a conservative, he recognizes: There would be something to do. But there's nothing going on. There's nothing coming here. Luxury pensions continue to exist as people walk around with 30 000 €, 14 times a year, and there on the top of the gallery sit the young people and know for them it won't go out anymore. [[Abg. Anger: Irmgard Griss, for example!]] And that's not okay. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Additional labour costs: Yes, the impact is important. We have to go down with the extra wage costs. We need to create opportunities for new jobs. And then choose a red tape sample here, where you do not reduce the additional wage costs, but you have to apply for refunds on subsidies. Why are you doing this? – You have to look at that very carefully. Economic and Social Committee: Once again, you are suspected that you will do so, so that the chambers will earn – and this is not okay – just as the Chambers – the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce – have benefited from the last tax reform, although they have been increasingly forced to contribute over inflation for the past ten years. [[Admissibility with NEOS and FPÖ]] That's not okay. Mr Bundeskanzler Kern, you do not change this because you obviously do not continue in these matters with the colleague who sits on the dead horse with you. To the cold progression: The average income in Austria is €31 000 gross per year, €47 000 for full-time workers on average, i.e. not included in part-time work. And of course, the middle class meets the cold progression completely. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Schelling has continued his cold collection office, and a partial load will only come from 2020/21. It does not hit the middle class. Mr. Schelling, you know exactly that 25 percent of payroll taxpayers pay 80 percent. And this middle class can't be anymore! They're squeezing him like a lemon in a flu wave! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] And it's no longer possible, nothing will come out! - That's it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We have the second highest tax and tax burden in Europe. Example Education – yes, do you want examples? Why the energy is missing? Because people don't believe you anymore. It is the tenth restart of this great coalition! Since 2013 alone and the Faymann II cabinet – now with its core – it's the sixth restart, so of course we're hard to give you faith. The example of education shows: You said in November 2015 that there is a big educational reform, and then you said until June 2016 we will implement everything for the young people sitting up there. – So, now we have January 2017, and not even half has been implemented. So the horse has been sick for a long time, namely, the last years, and now it's dead, and the beautiful saddle won't be useful: Dead horses are dead horses. [[Abg. Dead horses are dead horses? ... liver cheese!]] And this is particularly bad: If the horse only seemed to be, then there would certainly be five national leaders and trade unionists and would still nail it to the ground – that is your problem. That's why I'm asking: If you are serious about the programme, then the Land Princes must sign it, because they block everything where something is going – and also the trade unionists. [[Abg. Street: These are the princes of darkness!]] You know about the ÖVP: Who is now making posters in schools against school autonomy, your joint project? – It is the Christian trade unions who do this, and then they are sitting here in Parliament. Elusive Don't tell us! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Rocking horses!]] You don't believe it anymore! You do some circus there, and then you go out and in your other function sabotage your own plans. It's a sad game for people. [[Abg. Kogler: A rocking horse can also be dead!]] You must know, Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, all who sit here on the government bank: You're sitting here on parole one last time. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But hello!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] And there's a parole program in Austria, that is, restart, and that's true for you from now on. We have installed a website: SPÖVP accident-free for 0 days, 5 hours, 9 minutes, 21 seconds. [[The speaker keeps a tablet up and shows a website on it.]] Dear citizens! www.neustart.neos.eu: We will look at this government on parole every day. You can click here yourself, watch this. We will also install a government monitor in the next few weeks, as we did in 2013. We'll track every day. Keep up what you promised, or continue where you have stopped in recent months: Are you riding dead horses? – That’s to be feared!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17064	I call Mr Cap. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17087	So I don't know what the captors are going to say to this horse orgy that we just had to endure, but, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, somehow I like your speeches. [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] I like her because: You come out here, you see you vibrate, you become quite nervous, and suddenly you have to turn left to the speaker's seat. They just want to get up to the government bank. They finally want to go into the government. They want to be the strong man. [[Abg. Stroll: I want to bring... horse with me!]] You know, this rhetoric you've had today – the functional state, the social partners, the national leaders –: [[Abg. Street: Princes of the State!]] [[Call: Princes of darkness]] It's getting darker and darker. I already have visual difficulties. After the fourth sentence, I don't even know where I am. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[The speaker put his glasses on.]] - We have to put on formal glasses. The last one to speak like that was Weiland Jörg Haider. He also had exactly this rhetoric. [[Abg. Stroll: He's been right from time to time!]] We have once had a debate where I told you, but the Haider has already said that in the way. [[Abg. Wöginger: The haider didn't deserve that!]] The result is distrust of the state, mistrust of politics, distrust of those who sit in the government. [[Call for the call.]] – So I can say something critical to the Haider because you're running the forehead, colleague Strache, right? Time's over. But this mistrust you sow is not useful in the end. The styling agent at the beginning, it was actually not so bad anyway, then bring four, five points, and then it goes Rambazamba, Rambazamba. Where's your alternative social draft? How does your society look? Today, we have really presented a programme that is future-proof, because it shows what the challenges of time are. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Loacker.]] And the challenges of time range from digitization to the reduction of additional wage costs to research funding – all within. You should recognize that. However, one should also acknowledge the need to show: What does an implementation look like if it is to be credible? You just blew up your cheeks, colleague Strolz. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I do not have the time, but we could work out the boundaries of populist politics once on the example of Donald Trump. Because that's... [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] – Not: Yes! Think about that too! He stood down, yes, he stood up and said, now we are doing this with the entry limit. [[Abg. Stroll: Do you want to compare me to Trump now?]] We have rightly decided on this today. Mr Rädler, that was not all right when you said it was going to be waves in America. There will be nothing more to decide here if we always go to wave ideology. I'm concerned that we really signal here: He's shooting his own knee right now. [[Abg. Street: How many double-citizens do we have in this regard? 35,000?]] 200 million Muslims are affected, just those whom we as an alliance partner want to win against Islamist terror, instead, one puts Islam and terror on a level. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] This is unacceptable if we want to fight for a free world and for an open society. And that's exactly the goal: open society, social, just, ecological – you're right, yes – democratic; these are our goals that we have to strive for. And the hell again, today Hans Rauscher was right in the “standard”: “The world out there”, that’s exactly the subject. The world out there is also one of our policies if we want to make Austria future-oriented and competitive. What people love so much here is the social, the righteous, the health. But as for an economy that works, Anton Benya once said: A cow that you milk, you have to give something to eat before. - I didn't believe it back then. There I was a left-winger, I said for God's sake, what does he say again? [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Today, even because I like agriculture this way, I understand this sentence twice and triple. This collapse is the decisive thing with which we gain our strength, nationally and internationally. And now you're finally joining us, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17262	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17293	High house! Mr Cap, because you have spoken so funny about your past and your left-wing attitude, which you once had and now apparently not anymore, there is an interesting saying: Whoever is not a socialist at 30 has no heart, and who is still a socialist with 60 has no brain. [[Cheerfulness of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] – So you may have learned a lot, but this is not the subject today. A second point you have raised, Mr Cap, is very interesting. You have accused Mr Strolz of hearing this as with the blessed Jörg Haider more than a decade ago. [[Call to the SPÖ: That's blessed?]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: This is longer!]] But this is in itself the charge towards the government that it takes more than a decade to finally realize that something would be implemented in Austria. And if you say, Yes, finally, after three years we have a government that has decided to finally implement something that is going on after we have been waiting for three years of implementation, then of course this is positive – not a question at all. I'm almost already touched by this program. Finally, the government is taking action. And this programme contains very, very good points, which is undisputed. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This programme also has other advantages. This programme stands for the first time since I can remember, and I believe that it is the first time in a government programme, concrete implementation data, that is, until when you want to achieve something. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Until Brussels!]] And that's good. This is really an innovation that is most likely also due to Mr. Kern. That's where I express my respect. The question that arises, however, is whether this program can be implemented – because if it can be implemented, then it is definitely a good program. Only if you look at the history and the implementations in this programme, you can see: These are all the problems we have had for a long time, there are problems in it, we have had them for decades, and then the question is: Why has it not been implemented so far? The trade unions are coming to the Chambers very automatically – what was also addressed by my previous speakers – and of course the confederations and, of course, the heads of state who oppose this, and of course also the different positions of interest between the one half of the empire and the other, that is, the Social Democrats and the ÖVP draw on one strand, but in different directions. That's the problem we have. And the question is: What's better now? And why can we believe this time that this programme will finally be implemented? What's better? – So I haven’t discovered anything except possibly that Erwin Pröll is now adopting himself from Lower Austria and that Häupl is somewhat weakened and may also be going soon. This could be the indicator that something will finally be implemented. Then the next question is: What about the Members here in the House? In fact, it is incredibly interesting for the government to reject its own programme by the Members with a national vote and put forward a motion for a resolution in which Members call on the Government to implement its own programme. [[Abg. Plessl: No, no!]] You have to let that break on your tongue! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is embarrassing!]] This means that the programme will not be voted with the Members. No, it is being negotiated within the government, and then you come up with this programme, you also write in the preamble of this request, how enthusiastic you are, how you want to implement it now and how top motivated you are, and then you ask Parliament to ask itself to actually implement it. [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't you have any club sessions?]] And that is exactly why we cannot, in fact, accept this motion for a resolution. I would also ask everyone here not to agree, because that is exactly what the government wants: to gain time. We have, as it were, the approval of a programme which, in fact, is nothing but a declaration of intent. We haven't seen anything yet! This time again, in these two days, if we did not have this declaration of government, we would not have a single issue of the government on the agenda. There's nothing there. There's nothing. I wonder why at the January meeting, at the first session after the Christmas break, there is nothing on the agenda from the government at all. How is that even though we have such a long list of problems? . You could easily take out one, two points of this very great programme and give them the right time to implement it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You don't do that. No, you don't. So you come here with so dizzy applications and try to spread sand into the eyes of people. [[Abg. Wöginger: The President must apply...!]] Look, it's pretty easy: You will simply come to Parliament at the next session – you have written it in the same way in the programme – with the first two, three, four points in concrete terms, and then we will agree if there are good points – no question. And then please come with the counter-financing! What's in your program is really very, very funny. There are a lot of positive points that cost €4 billion – we know that was apparently calculated – but where the money is supposed to come from, we do not know that. That is not the preamble of this request that you have tabled today. It says that the government will take care of it. But it's not where the money comes from. And that's the problem. That means you come to Parliament with concrete proposals, put everything you have on the table. We will definitely agree. There are many good points in this programme, especially as regards immigration, integration and, of course, the cold progression – at last also some justice for workers, for those who do not have it easily! That's not a question, it's all good. If you come with concrete proposals, Parliament will also agree. Come on. You do not use such pocket-player tricks and do not abuse Parliament to ask yourself to finally get in the way! We've been doing this for three years now, finally telling you: Do something for Austria, do something! This program is the first step, but more must follow. We will be very attentive if they really come.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17426	Next, Mr Auer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17448	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When you heard – and it was really enjoyable – the two speeches of colleagues Strolz and Cap: Mr. Strolz, you were a lame Gaul to stay with your horse language. [[The speaker points towards Abg. Cap.]] - There's a racing horse against you. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] That was almost blamable. He's a little older, but you don't have a chance, no matter what competition. So it's clear! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few months, one could indeed have the impression that only more is disputed that nothing goes on, and therefore we welcome the regulation and the programme. As one of the great presidents of this House, Anton Benya, once formulated: Dispute is just a vulgar expression of hard negotiation. – It was negotiated hard. Something positive has been made and Joseph Joubert once meant: “The goal of a conflict or dispute should not be victory, but progress.” I believe that this programme of the two government parties is a progress, is a positive result, and we should build on it and look forward to it and now we are talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore to thank Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern and Mr. Vice-Chanzler Mitterlehner for having been able to bring something to paper in intensive negotiations, to agree on something that brings Austria forward. That's undisputed. When reading this program “For Austria”, I immediately noticed in the Preamble the following sentence: “Agricultural development is also expected to be sustained.” This definition is not just a lip commitment by the Federal Government, it numerous projects and programmes have also been agreed. This work programme with this central note and a volume of around €4 billion comes out without inheritance, without gift and without asset tax, and we welcome that. Ladies and gentlemen! They all know that the farmers in Austria do not live by the fact that they have land but by the productive land and land. Therefore, a substance tax would be fatal. For this reason, we welcome the clear signal to the rural farms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The measures for agriculture of the government programme, agreed in 2013, have already been largely completed. In recent months and years, marked by a very difficult market situation and falling income for our farmers, one thing has nevertheless been clearly crystallized: Our opportunities to manage market prices politically are very limited, I regret – I say so. But what we ourselves have in our hands is the purchase decision for high quality regional food in Austria. It is therefore important to fix the best bidder principle in the food sector in general and to extend it to all areas, because it is essential that Austrian quality, Austrian products of regional origin, receive an improved opportunity. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinhauser.]] On the question of eco electricity: I can also thank for the big and small novels. I welcome this decision because it takes account of those pilot projects that have really committed themselves to a new climate strategy. It is important, and I would also like to thank the Federal Minister Rupprechter that it was possible to start a civil dialogue in the federal states in order to ensure the master plan for agriculture and forestry, so that a new discussion under the motto “Agriculture is an economy in the countryside” begins in those areas that are important for rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! There are still many points to be mentioned here. It is important to work together, the common objective. I am pleased that the agreement between Mr. German Chancellor Kern and Mr. Vice-Chanzler Mitterlehner has been successful with all the ministers. It is crucial that the government should take a lead, and we should also cooperate in Parliament, implement it in order to be able to tell the Austrians: It was a positive program, it has also followed the words of action.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17539	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning of my speech, perhaps I would like to draw the attention of the television audience who had previously heard the speeches of the chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor, to the fact that this was actually a live broadcast. In view of the content, one could gain the impression that the ORF once again bothered us with a boring repetition of old records from this High House, because the content would have led us to this trail. [[Call the SPÖ:Very funny!]] That's what it looked like, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, no, that was live! This is precisely the problem, because we are already experiencing almost something similar to an inflationary development when it comes to statements of direction and the accompanying papers. It seems as if the government is particularly proud of it. In reality, this is an alarm that we are dealing with, because the fact of the need for a new declaration of government owes itself only to the failure of what we promised and announced at the previous time to actually implement it. Now comes one of these explanations after another. What does this tell us about the performance of this federal government? – In any case, from our point of view, nothing positive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of such a situation, ladies and gentlemen, then again the hour of Josef Cap strikes. Then he appears on the speaker list again. That's where you need a routineer. There is a need for someone who has already experienced the feeling of a hundredth restart in this Parliament in his hundredth anniversary. You need the routine for that, and there is one thing you need, above all, one: There you have to stand at a critical distance to your own doing. You can't take yourself and what you're driving here very seriously. Mr. Cap is the ideal occupation for this role. However, this is also part of the problem we are dealing with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I would suggest, for the next time, that you then put yourself together again in all your glory on the government bank, that you make yourself back here when there is something to announce that has actually happened, if the eggs you just gambled about today are actually laid, because everything else we know already. If there is something tangible, something measurable, something noticeable, something implemented, then you can drag this High House together again, make yourself here and then you can actually knock on your shoulder, then you can actually be proud of yourself. I am only afraid that this thing will never lie in the present, but only in the future, which Mr Mitterlehner also spoke about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you already make such statements as you have made today, I would also like to make an appeal to Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern – I say it in his diction –: Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, a little less fine dyery and a little more honesty! – Yes, that’s what this House needed at the beginning of this new year, especially if one pretends to have learned something about it, especially if one pretends to be blatant, if one pretends to have understood what the population is all about. [[Abg. Kogler: These are many anglicisms!]] A little less beautiful dyery and a little more honesty in two ways: Firstly, when it comes to how this programme and this so-called restart are to be implemented. While you have tried today to avoid this word re-start, because you already know that it will be the unword of the year 2017, but the thing is that what you are telling us here is nothing but the twentieth restart. So when it comes to the Genesis of this new start and, on the other hand, to the content, in today's remarks, you have carefully made a rather big bow about honesty. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, what was your real intention? – Already in autumn, Mr. Kalina – one of your many consultants, who didn’t get you to leave everything in the old world, but to take this place in the air – has looted in the ORF round and said clearly that they wanted to do this already in the autumn of last year. Then something came in, but that's how it was. What did it want? You're still igniting in Wels? – That was not the burning spark when you said you were now setting in motion this red-white-red or red-black-red-red coalition rocket to develop a new dynamic in Austria. What you wanted to light was the detonation you put on this coalition. You wanted to light him up in Wels. It's actually not that wrong when you come to this realization, because the Federal Chancellor has noticed that the air is actually out of this thing. The air is out of this coalition, there is a state – let us call it that – of the unwholesome destruction. If you're grinning at each other, then that's a form of toothfleating, something else is actually not. In this sense, it was actually quite honest to go on this step and say: It is the best thing to do, we let the electorate make sure that new power conditions are created in this country. This is, in fact, a reasonable access. You know, Federal Chancellor Kern, you can't make it that easy. You can't stand up in Wels and say to this confession of the total failure of the SPÖ and the ÖVP on the open stage immediately, I apologize, and think that this will be done. . I think I am pleased with the recognition that we have received, that we are thematically correct and that we also have the appropriate solutions. But that's an unculture that's broken up. You can stand down and you can apologize, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that's how it works! Who do you need to apologize for? – Your victims will have to apologize to those you have repeatedly praised, those whom you have already made for a number of times, those you have not kept, those who always come under the wheels, because you believe you have to congratulate the whole world – with all those you would have to apologize, and the act by which you get or not get this excuse is the reelection and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You then left the courage, you have to say, then the fear was closer to you than the alleged reformist you are now trying to show. The fear was much, much bigger and has been the determining component. Then there's been a mis-ignition. It was the infection that happened in the last few days. The SPÖ, with its red detonation rate, has also sprung away equally large parts of its own programme. Something else happened through the bang: Through this loud bumser, which it has done, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has really managed to wake up the dead man walking of Austrian domestic policy, Mr Mitterlehner. That was, as it were, the collateral damage. Who would have thought that Reinhold Mitterlehner was kissed by Mr. Kern and received a political extension? – Interesting, however, is the true story of this program. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now what happens is what happens: You try to make a virtue out of the need. Now this mixture of political scrap shots – as many small cones as possible all over the vegetable garden, on the one hand, across the resorts and on the other hand, where it concerns the big things, has said any non-binding statements of intent that will take place in the future from the Mitterlehner that they will never be present, everything in the future – to sell this mixed culture to the Austrians as new miracle medicine: Now, dear Austrian richer, but now really, now definitely, hand to heart, I swear, honestly true, now. - That's what we've been hearing for the last few days. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Everything gets better now, everything gets fairer, everything becomes safer, and the new aspect: Everything's getting more patriotic now. – That’s what we’re supposed to buy you. But I'll tell you right now, Federal Chancellor Kern – he's not here now –: [[to the Intergovernmental Bank]] No eagle has landed, simply and touchingly, because a dead bird cannot fly at all. As a result, he cannot land, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] You have only one problem. [[to the Intergovernmental Bank]] The Austrians, as I say to you in this clarity, are clear in their minds, they are not mad. Why use this concept of madness? – If I am You look around at it, then I always think of Albert Einstein, who formulated it so aptly – and this sentence reminds me again and again –: Insanity is the one who always does the same and expects other results. This characteristic of madness does not apply to us, nor to the Austrian population. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Now you can make a rhyme on who should feel affected here if you always do the same and talk about other results. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: You always expect results...!]] – No, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I understand that you cannot now keep your mouth shut with the newly developed self-confidence that you have blown in Mr. Kern, but believe me, that will not last long. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, no, that's not a substance you're presenting here, it's not a big thing you're presenting here, it's not a patriotic thing. By the way, the agnostic blessing from Hofburg from the new head of state, which I would also recommend – and I must say quite honestly – does not help you to stop his visor and not talk about dilettantism in America if he has such closeness to the dilettantism that he can really excite himself. This is also a strange way of access that the head of state shows. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Much has already been said about the content. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Not from you! Where was the content?]] But I would like to say something about atmospheric. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Full Content!]] - It's going on again. We've already heard that you can't sleep now from self-confidence. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Yes, yes!]] We've already registered this, but you don't need to be afraid that this insomnia will not last long. [[Federal Minister Schelling: She didn't stop with you either!]] But you know, that's the point: If you say that's a reform coalition now and everything's new now and the spirit of co-operation reigns, then it's a very strange process if you have to go after every single minister: Here you go, sign this now, shut up, declare yourself publicly to this paper! If we have already found ourselves together for a number of times in a constellation that is always in demand to advance the well-being of the Austrian people in major reforms, what do you need people individually to sign so that they can confess to something that should anyway be a matter of course? That is the opposite of the expression of a team spirit, but the testimony of a cureless destruction! What's next? The fingerprint or an affidavit that the Members of the Government are actually willing to make at least one contribution to government activity? That is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apart from: If you are already doing so – now I am with Mr Schieder and Mr Lopatka – then you have to make it decent. Did you all have to sign at the ÖVP club yesterday that you too will agree to this great resolution? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Yes, yes!]] You in the SPÖ, did you have to sign all of this? If so, because already, so that this thing also has a corresponding weight, because nothing matters more than the expression of willingness to contribute something by a signature! So it's going to be You probably signed it to everyone. [[Abg. Wöginger: Everyone signed!]] That's the new parliamentaryism, that's the new spirit of co-operation, where people in the club have to be told that they have all this in here. That starts well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there's something more to it: You know, of course, some useful measure is involved. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Go, stop!]] No, at the belly shop you bring here, the statistical probability is that you have some hits there. Most things are, of course, things that have long been known, where you can only wonder why it all took so long. But you will not all seriously expect us to praise you now if you think for at least a few days that you should not actually act like opposition politicians. This is what you have done over the last few weeks and months, where one has stood one by one and one by one, and one by one has put out to the public itself. They are there to implement, deliver and do it. That's the government's job, and if you haven't grown up, then you've lost nothing on the bankerl up there behind me. That's what reality looks like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Expected Don't let us praise you for what you are paid for and what you are increasing for everywhere for the so-called government responsibility! That's a lot of demand. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. The German Chancellor has announced a rocket launch, the Austrian counterpart to Apollo, but we have also missed the dynamics of a rocket launch in today's presentation of this so-called program – or whatever this thing is now called. This was not the dynamic of a rocket launch, which reminded me of the slow ascent of a hot air balloon. This will not be something where the spark of the Austrian population actually skips.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17852	This is what Mr Muchitsch has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17873	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Herbert Kickl. You're perfectly right: We have not expected any praise from you, but I would have expected you to pick up a few points in content and perhaps take a position on this, as your party sees it. That was just a speech about the atmosphere, but unfortunately no content. It's a shame around the time! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would like to thank those speakers of the opposition parties who can also gain something positive from this work programme, which really remains serious and say: There's a lot of useful and good things in there, and that's what we're looking at. We will deal with this in the parliamentary process. Of course, this also shows great importance, and I therefore thank you for this recognition. I would like to address the content of this broad programme for Austria, which is very much related to labour and social policy. Yes, with a very ambitious work programme for the next 18 months, the Federal Government is proposing some cornerstones. Now it is about consulting and discussing the various areas. At the end of the day, everything will end up with us in Parliament who advises the committees, and then we will be putting it into law. Three points reached out: Let's see the report on the topic 50+ in the last few hours! There are some pictures in the media, the newspapers, that spread fear and fear. Everyone believes that all over 50 who still have a job are at risk. However, the Federal Government does not want to do anything but all those who are over 50 years old who do not have a job to get a job again. Accordingly: Remove barriers to the economy so that these people also get a job. Each one of you here in the hall knows anyone in the circle of relatives and acquaintances, who is 50 or older, who has written 10, 20, 40, 80 applications and has no chance of a job in that country. And that's where we're going. And that's why: Not only do you choose the negative and try to spread fear and horror, but you can see what's really behind it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second point: Minimum wage. – Yes, we live in a country where 8 percent of employees have not yet reached € 1,500. If you fairly count it on the full-time workers, then it is 12 percent. The message is quite clear: It is more important to do something in these areas, especially as many women are affected. The social partners are called on to take part, and I am very convinced that they will do the same. You will also take the next step – the 1,700 € gross – in the vision and strive. The last hot point: flexible working hours. – During flexible working hours, we can't shave all industries over a comb with the lawn mower. The Federal Government was therefore well advised to transfer the subject to the social partners in order to examine the industry. Where is this a problem for health at work? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Moved to the long bench!]] How do we manage to achieve more leisure time and longer hours of employment through flexible working hours, without the income of employees being reduced accordingly, but in some areas perhaps even increased? In the background, the social partners have very good internal discussions to deliver a lot of policy, and they will do so. This is a work programme, ladies and gentlemen, to which we stand, and if you stand for something, you can sign it. We are all invited to look at these points in the next few weeks and months very seriously and in terms of content and, accordingly, to pass on something in the interests of the economy in that country, in the interests of all workers and, ultimately, for the whole of society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17930	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e17951	Mr President. Survivors Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Jarolim: Where's Kickl?]] [[Abg. Haider: He's talking to the arbitrators!]] [[Abg. Katzian: He doesn't want to talk to him at all!]] – There were still a few of the Villacher Faschings speeches infected. Please clear this! I would like to make a few factual reviews and start with the fact that it is always about the way in which it appears. There are two approaches: what you can really believe and what is honest. And that's where I actually recognize positive from the government's point of view. Whether that's really so good will show up. And then there is the staging. We have already experienced and learned a little bit about this. Maybe at the end of my contribution I'll go into it. We will also have to address certain productions of the German Chancellor, who is still very fresh in office, in the tomorrow's urgency of the Green Group on CETA. However, I have to say: As of December 2016, January 2017 – okay, something will be tried again. Whether it's true what Mr Kickl said was an explosion attempt, or just a virtue was made out of the distress, I'm at first squandered. However, one can see: There's something going on, and there's something there. And again: Methodically, one has to acknowledge that it is relatively verifiable. There is, I think, some of your handwriting, although we are not always in agreement. [[towards ÖVP]] At least there is almost always the date when something is to come from the Council of Ministers here to Parliament. By the way, this also facilitates life here, because there is once a timetable; it is not always available. You know when it's gonna come when it comes. So this is quite different in the way it works. You can of course ask yourself – I can't do that now, because it's our role to demand it and we're writing the year three, three and a half of this federal government: If the year 2017 is the year of work, what was the year 2014 in the Chinese zodiac? The year of beaks? - I don't know. Most of the Members here are the same as they were three years ago, and not all ministers have been exchanged. So, in that respect, the question is already what has been pressured by the fact that something is going on now. After all, we are also the legislators. Nevertheless, we or at least I want to look at this positively, because I already realize that it is somehow a bit different than otherwise. At the same time, however, we have experienced very often in the still young Chancellorship of Mr. Kern – and from the beginning I have had the impression – that the staging is considered as important for at least as what is wanted or meant. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Sometimes core stands in the way of loud staging so much that one no longer knows whether he means what Mr. Misik has done more meaningfully and appropriately. On this point, we will not all agree here; however, I have often - tax concepts, the question of financing the social state in the future and so on. We're just going to test that out, because it's good if something goes on. You're not going to talk about that. If not, the roles are also clearly distributed. However, Mr Chancellor will still have to find his role. Is he the showman? Is he a good manager who's once trying to put that store on a tray? Or is he a visionary, as he indicated in his speech? – I’m not quite sure yet, but that’s part of the interplay here in the house. Let's take a look at a few points as I promised: In the workplace, I find it not wrong at a stage of under-use, as you say economically, that you are doing almost work subsidies. This is probably even relatively unbureaucratic, in three years the halving of the famous additional wage costs – better is indeed: wage-related taxes. - Okay! At the minimum wage, I would like to put the question in a different direction: Yes, the tariff autonomy itself is a high value. Only in the four months up to now would the same social partners who are now called have had ten times the time to implement it if they wanted to. We have already developed the position that one has to intervene because the lower 10.20 percent of income has suffered real wage losses since the 1990s, and now soon the entire lower half of the income, not just from the tax system. But if that is actually the case, the time limit set is quite generous. If one thought it even more harsh and honest – and we would be at our disposal for it – we could work out the minimum wage law in parallel here and now, so that what you propose here is actually coming. If the result is not there in spring, we have the law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To wait until summer, if they don't bring anything together again, and then to get into the corridor or not, because the government parties have already argued for anything again, I don't seem enough at all. When it comes to cold progression, the compromise is that you let the downs be relatively more empty than the ones above. This is more favourable for those I apostrophic with income and, I think, okay. I wonder, however, why you don't actually let this happen with today's date. Klubobmann Strolz has already predicted that this will only be relatively late. However, if it is already that way – and with this I am now coming to the conclusion – that the meeting date in the Federal Government and the submission date is quite timely, but that often comes into force very much later, and that in the years 2016/2017 the head will be broken down, what is to come already painfully lacks the very great approach to respond to the problems of digitization, robotic work and the necessary conversion of the old industrial society. This could only be a completely different tax reform of an ecological and social nature. It is not to be seen that we are soon at the end of environmental taxes in Europe, while the millions of heirs and billions of billions are walking with us in a privileged way and nothing is happening. In this way, we would have more from the state of recontrol volumes of several billion euros and a large throw. We could talk about it, we should talk about it, and that should be done, because if we do not talk about it at your pace today, we are obviously not there in 2021 either. It's too long for me! We will ensure that this remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18032	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18053	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Mr. Minister of Finance! One can say that this work programme is a location impulse program. In the first place, it is very important that there are no new taxes. It has been created in the sense of the follow-up to operations, many of which are in the near future. Thank you also to the Minister for Finance. However, we also see very clearly and seriously that our location needs a modernisation of the framework conditions, and with this work package we create a modernisation of the framework conditions, so that our location remains internationally competitive. This work programme contains measures that secure our location and give the local companies impetus that they can create jobs. That is exactly what we want to achieve with this programme. If, in recent years, more than 300 international companies have settled in Austria in 2016 and thus created more than 3,000 jobs, then we actually have framework conditions that are internationally competitive. We are still improving these framework conditions, and we have therefore clearly recognised the need for action in these areas. The companies with their employees are making a very valuable contribution to the economic success of our country and also to social peace, and I am referring to this package, too. In Ernst & Young's SME study, 57 percent of SMEs say that they are very satisfied with the conditions in Austria. If we are still introducing additional measures that further improve the framework conditions, then this is very important, because only a positive mood and positive measures and results also bring impulses. Two measures are very important here, on the one hand wage reductions and on the other hand investment impulses. The reduction in additional labour costs is down by 1 billion € for all enterprises that employ workers. Then we still have the favor for the first three employees for the start-ups. This is also a measure that will take place in the next few months. In addition, we have managed that 50 per cent of the additional wage costs will not be charged for any additional job created in the future. So this is a package on the pay side cost sector, which I really believe can be seen. Summa summarum is at least €1.5 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second, we have created investment impulses for all companies, investment impulses of 15 percent for businesses with up to 50 employees, investment incentives up to 15 percent for businesses with up to 250 employees. For companies with more than 250 employees, there will be an early AF, allowing us to benefit up to 30 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! There are therefore incentives for all Farms of any size. I think, Minister of Finance, that is a good programme for the location, and therefore, of course, for entrepreneurs. Sure, when you're on the move a lot, you know that there's still a lot to do, especially as far as bureaucracy is concerned. Two-thirds of entrepreneurs call the most urgent problem of skilled workers' growth. That is why it is precisely the measures we are taking in dual training, which we are investing in education, that are very important for the location, for young people, of course, and therefore also for safe jobs. So summa summarum can be said: a very neat program. Of course, working time flexibility is particularly dear to my heart. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already said today that it is a matter of changing a lot and we have a working time law that probably has not taken these changes into account or is no longer taking account. So we're required. This also shows quite clearly a survey, because 84 percent of workers want to work flexibly, want a modern labour law. And that's why I'm saying: It's time! We need modern and flexible working hours, and we will also focus on them in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18111	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. The short debate will begin at 3 p.m. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18132	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haubner mentioned investment incentives and half-time wage additional costs, as well as free tablets, a second kindergarten year free of charge, 20,000 jobs for older workers. So we spend a lot of money, money that we do not have, and we want to finance it over savings you never realize, under-expenditure that you will never agree on, a higher administrative efficiency against which your national princes defend, and through economic effects that never occur. So we'll end up sitting on new debts. This will be the result of this work programme. For the sake of safety, you have not said anything about pensions, except that you are using a working group. This also ensures that nothing happens there. I would now like to draw up a few points on the labour market to which you have written a lot. The most important measure is that you want to stop the free movement of persons. So you want to avoid practically one of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union that free movement on the labour market, because you demand a general labour market test for all EU citizens. That is to say, the people, the citizens of the Union who have studied with us, should not work here afterwards without a labour market check. The frontier workers from Germany, Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, the border workers from South Tyrol are no longer supposed to come to work simply for Austria, who need a labour market test. That's what you want! And what that means for the Austrians who are commuting to Germany – well, the Germans will say, you can also cross-cross us – don't think about your provincial access from red and black. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What you're doing here is Öxit's policy! And once again, you reveal how far you have been in spiritual preparation – both! – to a government cooperation with the liberals. I hope you will not succeed at European level in putting this into practice. They have agreed, and I would like to stress this positively, on a strengthening of a quality provision for job-seekers: In the future, you have to take 20-hour jobs as part-time and not just 16-hour jobs. That's good. What you have not managed to do is also to write down the significance of a longer working path. If you have a work path that lasts longer than an hour today, you don't have to accept the assigned job. So that you don't change that, all those Austrians who have been driving for more than an hour to work today – and that's a thousand, because they wouldn't have to do that. They could limit the arms and be fed by the system. Instead, mobility aid is now coming. Yes, do you think someone who is not willing to drive 75 minutes or 90 minutes to work is moving to another federal country because you put him 12 times 400 €? You can completely flatter yourself! This measure will be pumped in nothing. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] 20 000 older unemployed people are expected to get a job from the public. Today, the municipal Federal Press Spokesperson has weathered, he does not know how to do this to the communities. It's only by pushing people out of this work today. If 20 000 people come to work now: Who made them before? They do work there, they have to be there, they don't come out of nowhere. In other words, you're going to break up private jobs with public money. Unfortunately, I have a hard time evaluating this positively. What you're doing is life-long politics – socialist, protectionist plan economy, which completely passes through the realities of life of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18198	I am now interrupting the negotiations on agenda item 1. [[15:00:31]] Short debate on the response to the question 10201/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18220	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 10201/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by writing is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not last more than 10 minutes either. Mr Oellinger, you have made the wish, I ask you to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18257	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brandstetter, you have answered a question that I am not satisfied with and cannot be satisfied with. I'm afraid it won't be the last time – even today's last time – that we'll talk about this topic. I'm telling you why. It is a very unpleasant matter because I know, Federal Minister, that in your public statements you have, in fact, always made very clear and very specific statements on the subject of tolls and crimes of the National Socialists or denials by National Socialists or neo-Nazis. It is therefore all the more surprising that such a request answer comes from you. Here in November – as the request had already been made – you publicly stated in a speech that you would provide the response to the request with all the documents necessary to make a more accurate picture. I found that very positive, Minister of State. – Unfortunately, this is not guaranteed with this response. Why not? - I'll tell you. For example, to questions 9 and 10 you give the following answer: “The board of instructions was given on 8 May. September 2016 on the basis of § 29c para. 1 Z 3 StAG by the Federal Ministry of Justice.’ - Who? From you? From the relevant section? Who was it? This is a crucial question, because your ministry has given opinions on the underlying decision of the Council of Instructions, which have pointed out that the Federal Ministry obviously does not agree with what the Council of Instructions has said. Second point: In the answer to questions 9 and 10 they refer to § 29 para. 1 Z 3 Public Prosecutor's Act. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: 29c!]] – Yes, thank you. There it says: “... if the Federal Minister of Justice considers it necessary for the public to take an exceptional interest in criminal matters, especially in the case of repeated and cross-regional media reporting or repeated public criticism of the actions of the public prosecutor’s office. ” Now I ask you: Where did this repeated supraregional interest in this causa occur until the decision of the Council of Instructions? – No one knew what the underlying procedure was, there was no reporting! This is another point, unfortunately not very pleasing. But there is nothing you can do to ensure that there was no debate at all on the proceedings in Wels – which is why this lawyer was then the subject of the debate in the board of instructions. No media report! There was a re-acting process, but there was no reporting. Then the lawyer makes a statement that the Procuratorate of Wels is convinced that this is re-activating, and the Advocate General says after some corrections: Yes, this is re-activating, we want the charge! – There is still no reporting. Then, by whoever means, the Justice Department of the Board of Directors comes to the train. That's exactly the big question mark who commissioned the Council of Instructions: You, Mr. Minister, or anyone from the competent criminal section? Who? We would have liked to know. Then there is a justification for reference to this § 29c because of the great public interest, although there has been no reporting and also no repeated public criticism of the public prosecutor's office, which would have been the other criterion of reasoning why the Council of Instructions could be addressed. We would have had every reason to be glad that the prosecutor's office filed charges. Not because I am convinced in this case that the re-activator is there, but because it is of course useful to discuss this matter publicly, namely, to discuss publicly whether there is re-activating if someone – and he has done so! – explains that there would have been no gas chamber in Mauthausen. This is a matter that should of course be discussed in court. Of course, it can also be thought that it somehow slipped out or what I know, but that needs to be discussed. I am not of the opinion that this matter may or should be decided without a court of jury dealing with it. Now let me tell you something, Minister of State: What I actually found shocking is the justification of the Ministry of Justice for the need to deal with the Council of Instructions. In your reply to the question, it is said that “according to § 3h of the VG, he who is punishing the national socialist crimes against humanity and not merely in peripheral areas, but who is denying (= in her heart), is grossly impoverished (= gravely defiled), acquitted, or seeks to justify.” It's still going on, I don't want to read it all out now, because it's about the speaking time. The crucial point, however, is: § 3h of the Prohibition Law means something else, and it is also different! It is said there that “who... the National Socialist Genocide” – and now comes a crucial point that is not mentioned in this explanatory statement! – “or other National Socialist crimes against humanity deny, immeasurably impoverished, approved, or tried to justify.” That's exactly what it's all about: It is not about the fact that the National Socialist genocide had been carried out in Mauthausen. This would mean that in Mauthausen Jews would have been destroyed, burned or otherwise murdered to hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands – no, thousands of people have died in Mauthausen through the gas chamber. They were killed because they were prisoners because they were Russian, Polish prisoners of war. Just because of this status, they died in the gas chamber. That is exactly what one would call a denial of the other national socialist crimes, not the core of re-acting or the denial of the Holocaust. The Holocaust took place in Mauthausen only in a detail area, if one wants to consider it so so so so so sophisticated, but there have been National Socialist crimes in the core. Now I'm telling you something about this story, something that has greatly shaken me – and has also shaken me with this statement that you have given me: In 1996, a judge at the Vienna Landesgericht – a right-wing judge – had to proceed with a re-activating procedure, Mr Januschke. That's because it's about a teacher re-acting at a school. As witnesses, students were consulted at the time. Mr. Januschke, as a presiding judge, is very keen on a student and asks him: Was there a general or partial denial from the teacher of the Holocaust? – Of course, the student has not been able to start with this question, so Mr. Januschke tells him what he believes is right: Yes, if he had denied the Holocaust in general, it would be punishable – but if he had denied the Holocaust in part, then it would be free of punishment. This statement by Mr Januschke in his capacity as President-in-Office has rightly led to a public appeal and also to Mr Januschke being withdrawn from the ongoing proceedings. Now there's something else to come up with. There should have been a procedure in Klagenfurt in 2006, in which an official of the Financial Land Directorate should have been accused of being sued for § 3h Prohibition Act. He has publicly claimed – in a church newspaper, one must say, and in a second newspaper as well – that there would have been no gas chamber in Mauthausen, which would have been built only after 1945. [[Abg. Kogler: Ha!]] That's exactly the way the Holocaust liars tried to go again and again. This procedure did not take place. It was terminated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the grounds that: Well, he read the wrong books. – Honestly, this is scandalous, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kogler: The wrong books!]] The editor of the church newspaper, to which it happened to publish this letter of readers without he himself reading it, was dismayed. He said, of course, that re-activating was a matter of course, and he was ashamed that this letter was published. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Federal Minister, what we expect from the justice system, what I expect, is a clean process...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18325	Member, come on. To the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18341	What I expect is that the judicial system will clean up and deal with the National Socialist Crimes as they have taken place in Austria, for example in Mauthausen. This concerns the perpetrators and this also concerns the victims, but that is another point. In any case, this is still outstanding, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18368	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Brandstetter, reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18389	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that you also presented the fact that my basic position is not too questionable. I also say quite openly to you: I have also been critical of the historical procedures you have referred to at the time. I have already said quite clearly on several occasions that the processing of the Nazi period by justice in post-war times has certainly not always been optimal in order to formulate it in this way. I am therefore also trying to ensure that there is and should be as much documentation on this subject as possible. That's something that's very important to me personally. I'm actually just having the problem that I'm only going to be able to keep the 10 minutes I'm supposed to keep up with. I'm a little bit like Goethe and Schiller in their exchange of letters. One of the two gentlemen seems to have once written to the other: Because I don't have time today, I need to write you a long letter. - I'm similar now. As you know, I have had so little time to prepare myself that I now have to make some points just a little more detailed. On the questions you have raised, Mr deputies, I would like to say the following: It is so in practical life – that was important to me, and I make it clear here again – that of course I cannot be personally concerned with the individual cases and the files, that is totally impossible. This means, of course, that the relevant department will pass on to the Council of Instructions in accordance with the relevant legislation, and this has my 100% trust. This is happening in my name – that's not a question at all – because I didn't want to have it any different and I couldn't do it at all. For one thing, because we have a common concern, namely, an efficient persecution of all forms of glorification of National Socialism and new tendencies of legal radicalism in Austria: We take this very seriously, as current statistics show. I refer to the number of charges for § 3g Prohibition Law: This increased compared with 151 cases in 2015 to 186 in the previous year, while in the meantime these proceedings also involved 76 convictions – compared to 67 in 2015. So, in principle, the public prosecutors are very keen on this, and we can also document on the basis of current numerical material that we are doing so efficiently and consistently. This objective of a uniform practice of persecution in the field of extermination and National Socialist re-activism also serves as an entirely up-to-date regulation initiated by us – an amendment to an earlier regulation; with effect from 1 January 1989. January 2017, very up-to-date –: ‘For this reason, if, on the basis of internal circumstances, it is appropriate [...] to transfer criminal cases under the Prohibition Act, because of the violation of [...] and terrorist association [...], to unite terrorist crimes [...] in a unit and to transfer to a prosecutor, to a large extent, several prosecutors.’ That means that we want more specialization and even more procedural and prosecution efficiency. The same applies, of course, to the most serious crimes, such as genocide and crimes against humanity. That is what we have last changed in this area. It also aims to take into account the increasing frequency and the growing importance of extremist criminal matters, while in the light of the rapidly changing social structures, it is also necessary to truly combine expertise and expertise required for the processing of such cases within the public prosecutors. Specialisation must be ensured and such procedures can be more effectively processed in order to ensure close and trusting cooperation with other authorities in Germany and abroad. This opening decision has already been made known. This is nothing but the continuation of efforts to increase awareness that we need to become even more efficient, even more target-oriented in this area. This issue is therefore again and again very prominent on the agenda of various management meetings of Heads of Government, as well as at training sessions. In particular, I am saying this because it is important to me that the overall picture that the judicial system offers in this area today is not brought into the wrong light by debates on very particular individual cases. I say quite frankly to you, Mr Oellinger: I appreciate your work. I think you're a kind of watchdog for this subject. It is therefore good that in this area too, we are repeatedly forced to speak and answer, because transparency in this area is really important to me. In concrete terms, I really thought, with my very extensive answer to the question, that I have actually solved all the questions, but I like to say a lot more. The submission to the Council of Instructions was due to the importance of the legal issues to be clarified – and to the particular media interest to be expected when the criminal case became known. This is important, of course, for such a decision to be always anticipated: What particular media significance, what particular public interest might be linked to this case. Of course, this can only occur afterwards, but you already have to anticipate it in advance. On the one hand, this aspect of the special public response to this issue was crucial, which was to be expected, but also the legal questions to be clarified. For the first time, a defender – a defender of duty who had not chosen his mandates! – due to his statements in his closing plea, criminal responsibility should be taken into account. This, of course, is also a matter of principle, such as the interpretation of the justification of § 9 of the Code of Law, because it can also exclude criminal liability. In principle, there is this possibility, but it is also stressed that the lawyer is already bound by criminal law in the exercise of the right of representation. However, we have never had such a case that a defender of duty should be prosecuted by criminal law – although I must say now, and to that I come in detail, the client represented by him was acquitted. This is a very special constellation, which, I believe, will not be repeated in the form. That was also one of the reasons why it was meant that this is a very special legal question which arises here: How far can, how far must a defender go? In addition, however, the point – and I have announced this with the extensive documents I also wanted to include in my answer to the question and also incorporated them – is that the entire plea of this defender of duty should be made public. I did, too, because medial has always been co-imported only punctual extracts. This is important, because only if you look at the entire plea of this defender of duty – which is still extremely unacceptable in what it sometimes expresses – can you understand, in my opinion, why the Independent Counsellor, made up of three independent experts, came to this clear view that in the case of the case of the case the law of prohibition would not exist. To this end, the Council of Justice has meant that, in line with this practice, it is “punishable for those who deny the national socialist crimes against humanity and not merely in peripheral areas, but in their cores”. Mr Oellinger, I can shorten this, you have already mentioned it. Yes, this is a legal view, which is based on the current legal situation, which has existed since 1992. In order to resolve this question of law, of course, a case-by-case consideration is always necessary, which is also based on all the criteria described; and that such an assessment, which must be an individual case-by-case assessment, of course, may differ from one case to another, which is in the nature of the matter. I have made this plea to the fullest possible transparency. I can only advise everyone to look at this really in peace, and then to consider why the Council of Instructions in this case came up with this clear recommendation that the situation would not be sufficiently given. There is something else – and this is now a point that, I say quite openly to you, has been the decisive one in my considerations: Of course, one has no joy with such cases, but it has always been important for me, especially in difficult decisions, to stick to the law really correctly. There is a system in the criminal code, which is playing in there, which may have been too little talk to date, but for me personally it was a very important one: This is § 210 of the Criminal Procedure Code, in which it is clearly defined as a legal requirement for an indictment that an indictment is only permissible if “a conviction on grounds of sufficiently clarified facts is close”. – In practice, this is seen as: It is necessary to have a conviction probability of more than 50 percent – so it is formulated salopp – but a conviction must be made according to the wording of the law. The board of instructions – and I could understand – said that it was obvious in this case, in which the client of the defence officer was acquitted, that it would come to an acquittal again. This, of course, would have been the criticism that we have again and again and again, and which you are right to say again and again, ladies and gentlemen, that jury courts are simply advocating advocating advocacy, which can often be difficult to understand. There's no other way than you. This is simply because the reason is not given. There is only the saying of the jury and nothing else. Taking this into account, it was clear to me: I have a clear opinion from the Council of Instructions. Independent, highly experienced experts tell me: That's not going to be anything, the conviction is not close. In our opinion, the situation is not strictly fulfilled. The special constellation – the mandatory defender, who has not yet been able to act for his client, who, as has been said, has not yet been able to do so – is also a problem of justification according to § 9 of the Code of Law. That is, in this situation – and for that I stand, and I can only answer that and nothing else – was clear to me: In my opinion, it is essential that I adhere strictly to the law. If § 210 StPO says that I can only allow an indictment if a conviction is made, and all the experts tell me that in this case it is different, there is an admissibility, then I cannot allow this indictment. Now, of course, I understand, one can always be of different opinion, but for me it was clear that the problem is actually here. [[keeping a copy of the criminal code up to date]] If the law provides legal conditions for an indictment, which – of course not for everyone – would have special consequences for a lawyer, then one must really take this seriously. I had the choice between the decision that might make for me, if you like, politically more comfortable, easier It would have been easy to allow this charge – then I am not here now; perhaps then we would have the discussion a little later on about why it came to an acquittal again – or that decision simply to say: I adhere strictly to the law. I told you about this before – and I am here to say: It's important to just stick to the law, and that's what I did. I could not have been responsible for simply ignoring § 210 StPO as a necessary legal condition for an indictment. I can't, I wouldn't. You can assume that: I really adhere strictly to the law. If the laws may have inconsistencies somewhere, then I am the first to take up such a thing. That's why I've already announced: I would like us to have a legal comparative expertise from outside, from the Max Planck Institute in Freiburg, which tells us how we are compared with our regulations. Perhaps we need to change this one or the other, perhaps the problem is also in § 210 StPO, but I already know one thing now – without being able to explain it exactly –: For the admissibility of an indictment, the law requires a forecast of a likelihood of conviction. In any case, we have a structural problem: How do you predict the judgments of a jury? - I don't know. This is incredibly difficult, because the jury is simply designed from its structure – even because of the lack of justification – so that any prognosis is extremely difficult. I think we have a structural problem. That is why my proposal, which I have also said earlier, is as follows: Let us try to achieve an improvement in this area – according to any model. I know that there are some proposals to this effect; there is also a proposal from Mr Jarolim that could lead to an improvement in this area. However, as long as it is – and so it is simple – that the criminal procedure provides for a prognosis about an obvious condemnation and we have been courting in all these proceedings, we have a structural problem for so long. Nor do we have anything of it, if in the end, in the case of acquittals, which cannot really satisfy us because of lack of reason; just as little as you do, you are absolutely right. Only: On the way there is the § 210 StPO, which you have to comply with. This is, of course, and also a very essential reason for following the Council of Instructions and its unanimous vote. This was of course not pleasant in this case, but it was necessary, otherwise, from my point of view, I should have hurt § 210 StPO. I was not ready to do that, and I would not be ready to do so in the future. That's the point. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18524	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18545	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This is certainly not the classic case of a question answer, because the answer has been done in a very comprehensive way. It is, however, an issue that is generally interested, and therefore it is also good that we should be involved in this – the most diverse situations – and that is why it is important for us to be aware of this. sit down. I am thinking, for example, of football matches, in which we are increasingly confronted with radicalisation, legal radicalization. It is certainly a legitimate interpretation of the precept. I also remember, Mr Federal Minister, that you have said on your own that you will implement the proposals of the Council of Instructions one by one, so that more or less one step can be taken back. What is less satisfying or perhaps stimulates reflection is the fact that there are two prosecutors who are intensively concerned with the question: What is this situation and how is it to be judged?, having discussed, have come to the view that it would be sued. I believe, of course, that the independent courts there have a special credibility. I also know the discussion on whether it is good to acquit jury courts in legally clearly qualifying matters because the potential level of punishment appears to be too high. I think it is precisely this issue that warrants a discussion on whether the procedure was very happy. The way in which you answer and also your commitment in the form of commissioning a study clearly show that matter is in your best hands, Mr. Minister. Their ministry is also very concerned with ensuring clear procedures. I believe, however, that in one case or another, it is necessary – and I now mean the football clubs again – to deal with it. The information provided by the relevant public prosecutor authorities is more likely to go in the direction of: These are young people, you can't do anything, and back and forth. – One has to deal with this very well, because sometime there should be a step to make sure that such things no longer happen. There is, of course, also the argument: A defender is obliged to present what is positive for his clients. However, his statements on – as he says – “a so-called gas chamber which has been later built up” are of course not very happy, although it is expressly also in there that there have been these serious crimes. It is relativized whether this was also the case in Mauthausen. This is certainly not a very happy explanation, especially if you are preparing for a procedure. One can expect from a defender, a lawyer, that the historical facts are clearly clarified – as far as one does not already know, it is undisputed – but not that he is hiding in such a statement, for whatever reason. I mean, it's legitimate to say, The Board of Directors has taken a decision on this matter. Personally, I also think that the situation was not such that the Council of Instructions did so because there were three relevant convictions in similar matters. It was also not widely known in the media. It was a question of whether, if a defender makes such a statement, which has been condemned in previous judgments, it is equal to that given. That, I think, could be left without further delay to the judicial system, which has been judged accordingly. I believe it is important to focus more intensively on matter on the occasion of this case – as the Federal Minister has already initiated the opinion that is being obtained. In addition, one should also look at and ensure that a model is provided in the various areas – and I think especially for young people. There are certainly other things, How you can prevent unhappiness in these football matches – I say now, football matches, but there are certainly other areas – and there is a step ahead. The opinion can certainly serve this purpose. I think it is our task to support you here, Mr Federal Minister, and on the other hand, whenever possible, to oppose what is going on in many ways. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18608	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18630	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear and clear: National Socialist crimes and other evils are just as much as any national socialist ideology, no matter in which form, whether impoverished, denied or glorified, absolutely rejects and sanctions. It's just irrevocable. In this sense, Federal Minister Brandstetter also stated in his reply that he is aware, as a citizen and in his exercise of office, that the clear rejection of National Socialism is one of the pillars on which the Second Republic of Austria is founded in its own understanding and also in its legal understanding. In the light of the fact that criminal proceedings for re-acting are of particular relevance not only because of criminal proceedings, but also in the sense of the Enlightenment, the maintenance of information and never-forgetting, the excitement in the specific case is more than understandable. An exasperation has caused the Ministry of Justice to follow the recommendation of the Board of Directors and has commissioned the Supreme Public Prosecutor to terminate the re-acting procedure. Such a decision is based on criminal considerations, which I would like to address in detail below. According to the ruling doctrine and Judicatur, according to § 3h of the Law of Prohibition, he is punishable who “disproves ” the National Socialist “crime against humanity” – including the National Socialist genocide – and not merely in peripheral areas, but in its core,“ denys, ” that is, in abjectness, “abominably impoverished, approved or justified. ” This corresponds to the will of the legislator in the judicial committee report on the occasion of the introduction of the 3h Prohibition Act. It should also be noted that the will of the legislator is also used for the interpretation of laws. In concrete terms, this means that in the case of statements with which the National Socialist crimes are not generally, but are only partially disputed, it is always necessary to examine the question of whether the relevant expression in its respective context of the National Socialist genocide is being debated in its core or merely in peripheral areas. If the Council of Justice now represents and follows this view by the Ministry of Justice, the ruling Judicture and Teaching as well as the will of the legislator will be followed. In order to make the case-by-case examination comprehensible in the specific case – and for reasons of transparency of judicial decision-making processes – Federal Minister Brandstetter has the entire plea- It was based on possible criminal proceedings, reflected in his reply to the question. As you can also see from the answer to the question, the Ministry of Justice has, in the applicable instructions, pointed out that the incriminated statements should not be taken out of the overall context of the plea. Its entire text “can be seen that the defendant addressed the National Socialist mass murders and the related existence of concentration camps and gas chambers as a historical fact (...) and in no way made any contribution.” Therefore, the incriminated statements do not comply with the case-law of § 3h of the Prohibition Act. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly an unacceptable behaviour of the defender, but we must accept that not every unacceptable behaviour is also relevant to criminal law. As evidenced by a view of the ruling doctrine and of the will of the legislator, there is no criminal relevance in the specific case. However, it is to be welcomed that this guidance has led to an intense debate and, as we see today, continues to lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18688	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18709	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! If the defender had looked at the literature for it, for example, by the Upper Austrian historian Florian Freund from 1995, then he would have known exactly what happened as in Mauthausen. That is what has actually been said. It is to be thanked to the Federal Minister that in this reply to the question he really – and that has already been addressed – has reflected the entire plea and also the entire reasoning of the Council of Instructions, how to proceed. It has now been given the impression that the public prosecutor's office, which, as the Federal Minister has said, must simply adhere to the law – and that should not be entirely foreign to us in the National Council, which we have praised – should be committed to objectivity. The prosecutor's office does not initiate a procedure for fun, almost maliciously, no matter what it is about; Mr Oellinger said that it would be discussed. – A court case in which there is an accused person, a defendant whose existence may be threatened, is nothing to which one says: We'll discuss a topic. – This is not a court hearing at Weitem. Now on the point that is most important to me: the question of jury jurisdiction. There has been doubts as to whether the oaths are there, these are the lay for legal questions, there is recognition. In this case, one does not need to address this, because the board of instructions – which is clearly stated in the answer to the question – has given very profound, comprehensible legal justifications, making a lawyer, a judge, a court of appeal a decision that, at least in doubt, an admissibility would be admissibility. I do not agree now that the Republic of Austria will have to replace costs if an admissibility is granted, as we have said: Let's stop processes. If it goes badly, then the Republic pays! – This mentality must not break in! But I come to something very essential: A criminal trial in Austria is neither a Stalinist display process nor a popular court of a Roland Freisler. We have the judges in Austria, we have the prosecutor's office, and every accused person, from Neonazi to the IS terrorist to the so-called Hendldieb, has the right in Austria – and to you from the Greens: human rights! – to the best possible defense. I don't know the initial procedure, it's supposed to have ended with an acquittal. I have to say that the lawyer, this defender of duty, has obviously done his work right out of professional ethics; for a defender does not stand up in Austria and says: That's my client, actually, he's even more intoxicated than the prosecutor says! – If it were Mr Ollinger, then the death penalty would be the right one for him. This is how processes and criminal defence do not play out with us in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Every person in Austria, from left to right, from murderer to simple pocket thief, has the right to the best possible defense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, I read here that it was a mandatory defender who was ordered by the State over the Bar Association and may not have wanted to conduct this procedure at all. Although he doesn't even get hurt by that, Mommon does the best for this client. That's the high ethos. An unhappy defense: If, as is stated in the answer to the question, you read through the plea, then you know very well what this lawyer said about the entire crimes of Nazism, to Hartheim, to the gas chambers that are there. He obviously found a very antique opinion that the Nazis themselves did not immediately find the gas chamber in Mauthausen. However, the fact that she was there clearly demonstrated the recent research. He made it for the benefit of his client. Since I'm a criminal myself, I'd like to hold on: Everyone has the right to the best possible defense, even if it does not fit you! [[towards Greens]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18783	Mr Dr. Walser is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18804	Madam President. Minister! High house! It has now been thrown a whole series of red, black and blue nebula grenades. [[Abg. Rädler: Of the Greens!]] Let us at the heart of this matter. The core of this case was in Wels a year ago in a criminal trial, and there a lawyer said, I quote: ‘It is controversial whether gasifications and burns have taken place in Mauthausen (...) What you got to face at the time in Mauthausen is a so-called gas chamber, which was later installed (...) It is unknown whether there was ever a gas chamber there’. It is much clearer not to deny the existence of gas chambers in this concentration camp. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That was the whole plea?! You can expect more from a professor of middle school!]] As a result, the Procuratorate – your authority, Mr. Minister – has rightly received investigations and wanted to repay them in accordance with criminal law. As a result, the Advocate General said: Yeah, that's right. – But now comes the strange case that this procedure goes to the Council of Instructions, your authority – the others are also your authorities, Mr Minister! – and in this authority you suddenly come to the opinion: No, that's not a violation of the Prohibition Law. Minister! Thankfully, they have done all they can to complete the prosecution's plea – by the way, I come to completely different conclusions if I read it through, of course, it is clearly directed against the Prohibition Law – but what would interest us in what we needed would be the complete reproduction of what the Council of Instructions had done there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Wrong profession, colleague Walser!]] That's what's incomprehensible – and that's what you owe us today. Mr Minister, you say it is not likely that there would have been a conviction. Why did the prosecutor's office see it differently? Why did this happen to the Supreme Procuratorate? – I believe that there were very good reasons and that there would have been a very good conviction there. I think it is very, very difficult now to take all of a sudden responsibility for the jury courts who had no chance of making a judgment in order to distract them from their own failure in this matter. This is a clear failure of your authority. What also outrags us, Minister, is that you are quoting the Prohibition Act in a question answer and that you and your authority are not able to quote this Prohibition Law correctly. Mr Oellinger pointed out: Just the crucial passages have been left out, and it has been pretended as if a non-payment would be justified after this mis-quotation. That's a scandal, and that alone justifys this meeting. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That beats the barrel's intellectual ground!]] – Don't be upset, colleague! I have also heard your words in peace, and you can be sure that it has been difficult for me to listen to them in peace, as is not often the case with your remarks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! It is not about changing laws, it is about consistently applying existing laws. This is at the heart of the matter, and this has unfortunately been prevented by your authority. Remember what happens in the students who have participated in this trial and who have heard the statements of this criminal defender when they hear: Hoppla, the Austrian Minister of Justice believes that this is not worthy of charge! – I think this is a fatal signal that we send to our youth. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Green mucus!]] I have to say quite clearly, and I believe that we should all say this clearly: Mr Minister, I have heard other comments from you, I have heard you at an exhibition opening in the Grey House, where you have found clear words – unfortunately not here! Mr Minister, we do not want a justice that encourages Holocaust denyrs, but that is exactly what happened in this case; for example, Gerd Honsik, Gottfried Kussel, rejoiced. By the way, John Gudenus has also been one of the Holocaust liars, who was then sentenced.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18892	Deputies! You must come to the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18909	Minister! I hope you return to your original attitude. I remember that we also had and have problems in the “Aula”. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I hope that your authority will no longer be hindered in the process of preparing the Nazi history.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18945	Mr Brandstetter has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e18967	Madam President. Deputies! I just wanted to point out – I thought that this is clear enough from the answer to the question – that we have taken over the exact reasoning of the Council of Instructions and made it ours. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right, stand in there!]] That starts on page 5 and goes until page 6. In addition, the former General Procurator as Chairman of the Council of Instructions has explained quite clearly and clearly why the Council of Instructions has reached this view. It's literally translated. We have, of course, always correctly and correctly quoted the facts in question. [[Abg. Walser: Not to the fullest, that's decided...!]] I agree with you: I also do not want justice for God's sake, which encourages Holocaust denyrs. We are completely in agreement in this, I do not want to. However, I do not want to mention that legal requirements and limits of criminal proceedings must be respected. It is important to me that I stand for that, and that is the decisive thing on this point. But you did not mention one and did not take up the § 210 StPO, which has a really decisive function. He's the key to understanding the whole thing. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is an intellectual problem, colleague Walser!]] You obviously didn't mention it, but it must be observed. [[Abg. Walser: The prosecution sees this differently!]] I can only tell you that, in the end, even if there are different opinions on legal issues, that is nothing new, that is not unusual – it is good to focus on what independent experts say after careful review. The members of the Council of Instructions, you know, are, of course, completely independent in contrast to the public prosecutor's office, which is not necessarily binding. In this case, I have revealed to you what criteria were crucial to me. I think there are legal boundaries to be respected, I have to guarantee that as Minister of Justice. We fully agree on the objective: This case, too, for God's sake, must not lead any Holocaust denyrs to feel encouraged – certainly not! I can also guarantee you that this will not be the case. In this particular case, however, I think it would have been wrong for the state of the law and a violation of the StPO to allow the charges. I am in favour of this, and so I have followed the advice board and the recommendation of independent experts to 100 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19047	Mr. Dr. Scherak is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19070	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I think that what the Greens are doing is unacceptable in such a difficult question, because here I am talking about red, black, blue and in the case of pink nebula grenades, but I really think that I am not allowed to look at the case law. In the case-law of the Supreme Court, a judgment of 23 March 1999 April 1996 – Mr Oellinger, that is what you have mis-quoted – it says that if someone makes himself punishable when he disputes the "criminal crimes committed by the National Socialists at all, or if she (not only in peripheral areas, but in her core) is grossly impoverished or condoned" – and so on. Mrs Karl has made this very clear, and the Council of Instructions has also done so very clearly. I do not think that this assessment is legal at all. This does not change the fact that the arguments of the defender are unacceptable and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] However, if you read them in the overall context – that is what the Minister of Justice has clearly reflected with the printing of the plea, then the fulfillment of this crime is not available. Mr Oellinger! It's fascinating that you're obviously the judge here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's kind of weird. There is a legal situation, one can argue about the legal basis, one can do that, but as it is currently in the law, the opinion of the Council of Instructions is clearly understandable in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Yes, there are different legal opinions, as colleagues have already said, that has already been said by the Minister of Justice. In principle, we can talk about the constellation of the Council of Instructions, which I personally do not like. The major mistake is that the Minister of Justice does not have to comply with the proposals of the Council of Instructions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He does it anyway!]] - In this case, he did it. Imagine what would have happened if it had been the other way around! I personally believe that it would be more useful to have an independent state attorney who is solely responsible for Parliament, who is also elected by two-thirds. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, well!]] Mr Steinhauser has similar proposals. Let us assume, however, that we do, we have an independent state attorney, and this one decides equally in the case. Then you will question it again, and I personally think that it is not understandable. There is a legal view, which I believe is reasonable, which is understandable, which the Minister of Justice has followed, and that, despite what he has already explained, was probably or even certainly the right decision of § 210 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the general problem of jury jurisdiction. To speak here and to accuse all the other parliamentary groups of saying that they are unfair, and only what you say is true and correct, I believe, in particular, that the question of how the judicial system works in Austria works – in this case, the Council of Justice has said very clearly and clearly why the case is not fulfilled in this one case – for some sort of difficult and, from my point of view, not particularly beneficial. As far as this issue is concerned, you certainly have great merit in dealing with how we deal with people who deny the Holocaust, how to pursue it, and the whole process of history – and there we as Austria still have an incredible amount to do – but in this case it is clear that it has not come to the fulfillment of the crime. That's why I don't understand the whole thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19144	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:56:08]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19169	I'm going to take the negotiations on the 1st. Agenda item again. Next, Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19193	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It is difficult to go back to agenda item 1 after this state-politically important judicial debate and to comment on the Federal Government's statement on the Federal Government's work programme. But I want to try that thought anyway. When the President of the Federal Republic was praised on Thursday last week, he spoke of confidence. [[Abg. The Greens!]] The Federal Chancellor has spoken of optimism as an attitude, confidence and attitude, and now we have this programme “For Austria” that we are discussing. Of course, for the implementation of this Elan programme, it needs energy. The clubman of NEOS, Matthias Strolz, didn't feel her here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I can tell you one thing: We are in favour of energy, we want to implement this programme at the right time and with the necessary follow-up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As an equal treatment and women's spokesperson in my group, I have looked at the passages that concern women in particular. The question of minimum wage has already been discussed or raised several times. I can still remember the fact that the current President – then still the Minister of Women – postulated a minimum wage of €1,000 and put the social partners in the window: If that doesn't work, we'll do it! – The social partners have complied with these requirements. And I assume that this will also be the case now and that the timetable will also be observed. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next question: older unemployed, unemployed aged 50 plus. 20 000 jobs are to be created. This is particularly true of women. We all, we talk to the people, know that at the age of 40, we've often been counted as old iron. If the opportunity is now created to get more jobs for people aged 50 plus more, this also benefits women. All those who do not go fast enough with the increase in the retirement age are also saying: Two thirds of women go from unemployment to retirement. In this context too, this measure is good. A third and very important point for women, for families, for parents is the second kindergarten year. It has already been discussed and mentioned here. It is also very important because, unfortunately, parental obligations are not as divided as we would wish. It is not always half lived in our country, and therefore the second kindergarten year, which is provided free of charge, is an important measure for many single parents. Finally, I would like to mention the apprenticeship package. I was an apprentice myself, then finished as a watchmaker company, and this grant would have been a great help if it had been granted to prepare for the examination of the course. The acquisition of language is an important measure for our future skilled workers, and it is especially important in this context: that you do not forget the apprentices. It is always spoken by the students and students, the apprentices often do not occur in the discourse. The measures provided for in the apprenticeship package are therefore also a form of appreciation which I would like to mention in particular. In this sense I can say: For the women and also for the young people in our country, there is a lot in this package. Now it is up to you to implement it quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19249	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19270	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the work programme of the Federal Government today and it has already been very controversially discussed. We have heard of dead birds who cannot fly, or of dead horses who have been set to continue riding them, but we have also discussed many, many positive incentives. Perhaps the Federal Government is now ready, at a time when Austria is not doing so well, in which we have a migration problem that is not solved, which will also bring great problems and challenges in the future, in which the economic location has not yet been properly started, in which the PISA study shows down with the arrow, perhaps the Federal Government is now good will to finally scratch the sleeves and work for this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot of people – a minimum pensioner who is cold, who did not know how to finance the heating costs, or whether to heat or eat, unemployed in search of a job – will be attracted to the government at the beginning of the year and have had the impression: They just argue, they don't agree at all. Each individual, starting from the Federal Chancellor, feels called to develop his own plan. We have a plan A, a plan S and a plan L. It was very, very strenuous for many because they did not know: What does this group of people want? Does she ever find a way together? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Now there is a new, joint government plan!]] And from my point of view, the whole discussion could have taken place in the silent chamber in a working clause, without the population being insured for days and without the future of the country actually becoming very uncertain. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If today there is a government programme, a work programme, then I think it is positive that there is finally consensus between the government partners and that such a road map has been presented, which also contains a binding time frame for what should be worked out. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also say from the opposition: It contains a lot of things about which there is broad consensus, so that we ask ourselves the big question: Why has it not been implemented long ago? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] Why is it now necessary to have a work programme to deal with issues that are consistent anyway? This is where I look at, for example, the point “Simplification in the case of multiple insurance”. There won't be anyone in this hall who says he doesn't want to. Or when it comes to the approximation of pension systems: There is now a working group. On this very point, however, I would like us not only to discuss, for the future, the approximation of ASVG-pensionists and officials, but also to re-think all privileges. It can't be that at a time when many people are so bad, privileges continue to be paid by the state! That's where I see the need for action on the side of the government! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] To the free kindergarten year: I think it is good to offer a second kindergarten year, but not mandatory. That's one. The other thing: If this is to promote integration, we must also be honest and discuss quality in kindergartens. Then it can't be that 25 children come with a kindergarten teacher and an assistant. That's too little. We need more staff in order to work well. I could mention many points where we also believe they are good, they should be implemented as soon as possible. But there is something that is especially dear to my heart: We must not forget the individual companies. I have the case of a lady who has completed an additional insurance at the health insurance institution of the industrial industry. From the fourth day of an incapacity for work, she was entitled to receive sickness benefit, and then suddenly there was a letter: There's no more. The minimum health care of 29,23 € per day has been removed. From now on, there is only €8.51. Ladies and gentlemen, this group needs to be supported to strengthen. And we are in favour of creating legal frameworks to ensure that individuals also have legal safeguards. To conclude: The best paper is only worth as much as the people who are willing to implement what is decided. I think it is absolutely overshadowed if everyone has to sign or vote for it, because I think it would have been enough if Mr Lopatka signed it all. [[Abg. Loacker: Obviously they didn't trust him!]] Then probably the risk factor in the ÖVP would be kept restricted, and then the paper would also be implemented. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19348	Next, Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19369	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dietrich! It is recognised that at least an opposition politician is dealing with this new pact for Austria in a matter of fact. I think this is an appropriate, good speech, unlike some other opposition politicians who have actually criticized everything but have not recognized it. This is actually not possible, because if you read through these 35 pages, it is relatively quick to believe that very wide, important, forward-looking measures are being taken here for this country and, above all, for the population, for the people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I would like to support this in the first place, ladies and gentlemen. It is really a programme for Austria, which will now be completed in the next 18 months. That we also demonstrate this with our signatures alone has the background that we are sometimes held up – even today it has already been said – because there are also parts in the individual parties, both at SPÖ and at ÖVP, where it is questionable whether this is also carried out. [[Keeping up to date a document with numerous signatures]] - Yes, it will be carried. We have all personally signed it, and we will also express it in the vote, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As an ÖVP social speaker and as an ÖAAB chairman, it is important to me to get a project especially in front of the curtain: This is the abolition of cold progression. The tax reform has been effective since 1. January 2016. We know, however, that there is always a sluggish tax increase, because in the case of salary increases only the highest tax class is applied and not a fair distribution at the different levels of taxation. I therefore think it is a really big project that is being opposed to it. It is clarified with the first two stages that all income stakeholders benefit from it. The majority, which is 3.4 million taxpayers of a total of 4.4 million taxpayers, benefit fully, and the remaining million benefit from this share in the lower sector. It also benefits the medium-sized or the higher earners when the lower levels are relieved. I really think this is a good solution. We also camped this as ÖAAB. [[The speaker holds a leaflet with the ÖAAB logo and the title “Your Money Belongs to the Stock Exchange! That's why: Get away with the cold progression! STOP taxes www.oeaab.com’ in height.]] I didn't know it was going to be so fast: “Your money belongs to the stock exchange!” That's right, ladies and gentlemen. We want to relieve. Also a milestone in this program! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are numerous measures for employment and for the job situation. It was sometimes also voiced criticism in connection with the question: How do we bring people where the jobs are? If we look at the current gap between the West and the East in employment statistics, it is noted that the Western Länder are, as it were, declining unemployment rates. have paid and in which gastronomy, in the tourism area et cetera many workers are sought. I therefore think it is a good incentive system if we create a distance aid, a mobility premium, a combination wage model and say: Don't sit in unemployment in Vienna! Go to Salzburg, Tyrol or Vorarlberg! Look for a place to work there! At the end of the day, you'll get more money or a premium if you're ready to go to this federal state once for a season. – This is an incentive model I consider useful, and I am glad that it includes it here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also the employment bonus, a wage-side reduction for additional, new jobs – what is bad about it, ladies and gentlemen? This is an impetus for the economy, especially for the growing growth economy, which we absolutely need. As far as the apprenticeship package is concerned, I am proud that the attraction of teaching does not just remain a keyword. We now also support apprenticeships with the acquisition of full costs or foreign internships for apprentices. We need the massive expansion of broadband, digital lines, especially in rural areas. Furthermore, a housing package is included in the Federal Government's work programme, where construction land mobility is also addressed. This is promotion of property, ladies and gentlemen. We are in favour of this promotion of property. We want people to be able to afford property again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the restructuring of working time and the minimum wage are out of stock. I think both are important projects. Working time must not be a one-way road, both service providers and employees must benefit from it. Furthermore: the point 1 500 € minimum wage, if someone works full time, ladies and gentlemen. People have also deserved this in accordance with the principle of “performance must pay off. ” I therefore assume that the social partners will also be able to reach a good conclusion. Last but not least, we also agree with this programme on a comprehensive security and integration package that people in this country rightly expect. They expect us to ensure that they are protected and that safety is given to the highest possible extent. The “Salzburger Nachrichten” today writes “Jackpot for the Interior Minister”, and also the Integration Act of the Foreign Minister and Minister of Integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I am good and I am convinced that we will also implement these issues in the sense of the domestic population. This government is working, and we here in the House, the SPÖ and ÖVP Members, are the guarantees that this programme will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19491	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19513	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger, it was to be expected that you will now get in there with your praise. You're very happy to do that, and I can't see anything about objective review now. [[Call at the ÖVP:Was also to be expected!]] This programme is not really new. It is nothing but the resurgence of a government concept that we already had on the table, perhaps with some small additions. New is that we will now be presented again so that the government can present itself again so that the Federal Chancellor can play and show the strong man: I'm the leader now, and everyone has to pay tribute to me. He has already warned and said that no one is allowed to light up, even the government partner, so to speak, everyone has to pay tribute to him now. I hope you've all clap enough, too, because we know that no later than last Thursday, when you clap, you're gonna stop. Some here from the ÖVP have left out a bit of chatting, Mr. Federal Chancellor! We will see if we read this in the “standard ” tomorrow. [[Abg. Wenninger: That was really embarrassing when you didn't praise!]] – It was embarrassing when the ÖVP today did not praise the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, you are of course quite right, Mr Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's interesting – because you're just getting into the conversation, into the debate – is: They are also one of those who have now been commissioned towards the social partners. You now need to negotiate working time flexibility. The social partners, who have been in the constitutional rank for ten years, have not brought anything together for ten years, because now they no longer have to fight, we know that. What happens if the social partners do not deliver anything in half a year? Do we have the next government crisis? Will the government then come together for a weekend, discuss, debate, bring something new? - All of this remains open. In one, Mr Wöginger, you were right: Many of the points that you have in there are important for the future – that is, for a future in which this government is no longer in office, even after regular elections. For example, if we take the abolition of the cold progression that you have just considered to be a milestone, it will apply from 2019 on to the lower levels of income, but not to the middle class at all. The middle class remains outside once again. That's the one who's going to be squeaked out. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, he's there! That's not true!]] – That’s right! Read your own program for the first two tax classes! The middle class is no longer there. But let's get to another point. I do not want to discuss so much with you now because you have been allowed to spread before. But not only is the cold progression in this programme not the great milestone, but also all the labour law or the labour market which is contained in it, for example the protection of the Austrian labour market. There is no mention of the Send Directive, but a letter is to be sent to the EU Commission by March 2017 at the latest. – So don’t be angry, but that’s not a program, that’s not an announcement! This letter could have been sent away months ago! Mr Bundeskanzler, if you take this seriously, I would expect you to go and discuss and not just write a letter! This letter will be shubbled! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us come to Mr Wöginger's alleged large aid for people who, for example, switch from Vienna to Tyrol in tourism! There should be a wage subsidy for this. - Great! First of all, the question is: How many people will go there? Should the entire Austrian labour market now be converted into socio-economic operations? Is it really what you want? This cannot be the future of the Austrian labour market! So that's really a big deal to bring you there. Another part contained in your programme concerns those people who are considered to be particularly problematic at the employment office, which is therefore difficult to mediate. Now take them out of the statistics. So, ladies and gentlemen, if there are 103 000 unemployed in Austria in the near future, this is not the case because we have 103,000 jobs. No, those who were problematic last year were taken out of statistics! They are now being entered into their own statistics, because they are currently not available. Last year there were more than 103,000 people who were considered problematic. I've been looking at it again today. – This is really the one point. The second point: Mr Wöginger, you meant that Mr Kurz would have enforced everything. – So quite so, I would say, it's not. Atatürk succeeded in the 1920s in Turkey. Not here in the 19th century. What do we have now? - We have a headcloth ban for the legislative. All right, here inside, it's now forbidden for us Members – so far, so good. But where it would be necessary, for example in schools, where integration is to be lived, nothing has happened at all! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen]] That is what is necessary, and not whether there is a Member or a Member with a headcloth. This is not essential, it is not conducive to integration. In schools, it would have been beneficial if it had been necessary. What's even more interesting: There are now higher penalties for sexual harassment when it occurs in groups. That was very exciting for me, because we have now heard for months that all this is not at all true, the increase in the number of cases would only be perceived subjectively as such, and at all, all this would be just right hetze. If all of this is just right hetze, if there's no such thing, why are there higher penalties? I would like to say critically: What does “sexual harassment in groups ” mean? How does the group define itself? Are those two, are those four? Do they have to dance before, or is it enough if they just approach as if they just reach out? So I honestly tell you, as a woman, I don't feel better protected or treated better. Quite the contrary, it's the status quo for me, because it all says everything and nothing. So these are exactly the problems we have here. I believe, Mr Bundeskanzler, that what you have organised in the last one and a half weeks was nothing but a whole, very big theater comedy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You actually organized a very, very big comedy. They either wanted to choose or force the government partner to kneel, free to Oscar Wilde, who said: “The world is a stage, but the piece is badly occupied.” In this sense, it is precisely this way that you have to refer it to this federal government: Unfortunately, this federal government is badly occupied by God. Even if there is now a so-called restart – however much it is – it will continue exactly as before, because nothing has changed in content. It is reworded, it is, as it were, again said: But we're going to do it very well now. But I can promise you, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months we will have the same situation again. We'll stand there again, we'll have a restart. We may then have sent a few letters to Brussels, so that you can make the hookerl: we have done it. However, there will not be a de facto improvement for the people of this Republic. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Where is the glass ball?]] People will not feel an improvement in just a few months. Not even in 18 months will people feel just a touch of improvement, because of this program at least not!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19656	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19677	Madam President. Dear Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister! Yes, Mrs. von der SPÖ, you are right, Mrs. Jenewein needs one: Trust me! Confidence – please don't talk everything in the ground and ground! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You really have to put the matter on the scale and check it. Now we really have something new: We have never experienced in Parliament that there is a collective trial of signature. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Have you seen it, from all on it?]] Yeah, that's the new thing. A collective sample of writings across the government and its representatives under a programme, most of which was already adopted in 2013, which includes some new aspects, but which can be reassessed according to our standards, because our standards are quite simple and simple: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What in general...!]] Will the life situation of the Austrians now be improved by this new one, I call it warmed up or newly adapted government programme? [[Abg. Wöger: Yes!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Yes!]] Yeah, that's the Cardinal's question. I'm going through the programme on a number of points, but I'm allowed to highlight something else: Not only the innovation of the signature sample, there is also – Mr. Federal Chancellor, compliment! – the innovation of the roadmap. There are innovation of exact dates, schedules; we have 39 deadlines. Yes, we have never had that before – a very good measure for us as quickly as possible Your work pace is whether you reach the destination yourself in time, whether the right station at the station of the workmanship has been used in each case. Well, it's going to be exciting! Let us look at it very specifically! Mr Glavischnig has already mentioned: Many people suffer from the fact that living space is no longer palatable. I don't need to repeat it. A rental law reform is in your old 2013 program, now there is no more word about it. Now it is to be read – that is interesting for me – that in the future there should be something like a kind of contract order – I have already requested it in 2013 – so that at last the basic price for building and living will become cheaper. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo!]] Spatial planning for the future – the problem is only, we have already dedicated enough building land. It's about lubrication of the existing building land, and that's a suturer, you know that just as I do. The basic price is almost no longer affordable. But in your programme, Mr. Federal Chancellor, this is why a big bow is made. Privately, they can still demand what they want. In the public sector, it is expected that 25 percent of the relocated area will be more favourable for social housing. Please, this is a peanut, I have to say honestly, given what we already have on dedicated land and how expensive it is. Therefore, housing will not be much cheaper – Mr Bundeskanzler, unfortunately I must also tell you with regard to the experts who have explained all this to me more precisely – and people will not be able to afford the apartments better. Now there's another detail. They are reselling the lubrication of private investment, private capital in non-profit housing companies. How this is supposed to work together, please, that is completely unclear. You write it yourself. There is a legal need for a square of the circle when it is necessary to make EU law compatible with the law on non-profit-making, to make it compatible with IFRS accounting status, which private investors have to comply with, whether insurance or precautionary institutions, i.e. pension provision institutions. I don't know how this goes, I don't know, experts don't know, but you write it in. So I say that the living situation of the people in the living area will not significantly improve with these two, three peanuts. Let us look at the new programme in another area, because you have fortunately – great praise! – in the labour market field, there is much to be done. This has already been confirmed by my colleague Kogler. Whether it will bring something will show the future. Only: How do you want to finance the 4 billion you're taking over here? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] As a counter-financing for the tax reform, we have already heard: Administrative reform, about a billion. Now I read: Consisting of responsibilities, here on page 32, is a question of making the administration more efficient, where it is a matter of finally reducing double-tracks, eliminating confusion of competence. This is where I read that there is a billion we need, on the one hand, for tax reform, on the other hand for the history of the labour market. The same billion used twice, this is an interesting aspect; how to say? – I've got a strange way of thinking about the types of calculations here. As an interesting station, when toucate one billion, the 1. January 2018. And as a station on the way to how this should be implemented, I read: ‘The Working Group meeting in February/March 2017’. Mr Bundeskanzler, I will then copy you, because I prefer to keep in mind the history of the administrative reform in Austria. I have written on two pages how many commissions there have been. I'll cut it off. 21! 21 commissions, and now we have the 22nd: Meeting of the February/March Working Group, and then one billion will come out. I'm excited, I'm really excited! - Yes, eh! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Leichtfried: You have confidence!]] I'm at least excited, and you can be very confident. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Well, if we need money now, we also need it in the field of education. I'm glad you've been holding this second kindergarten year again. But I have serious abdominal pain or an aversion, if I may formulate it in this way, against your laptop ideas in primary schools. When you get to a primary school, you can see how the children can wipe back and forth on the phone. They don't need an iPad before, they can already do that. And programming never learns and never learns with a comic iPad, so you never learn programming. But what you need to learn and what you as an entrepreneur, as a manager and also as a Federal Chancellor have to demand from the young people is: Read, write, calculate. Read, write, calculate! Aha, that's... [[Demonstrative applause and bravado at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With your wiping we won't get far in reading, writing and computing; apologise for formulating that. Now to the last area in education, to the university: We don't read anything new in the university. There we have this management of the places of study, but how is this going to bring us forward? - Nothing brings us! In so far as: I am confident that something is going on, and I am very excited about the 39 stations that I will even notice in the calendar. But, Federal Chancellor, I would have expected even more substance. Above all, I would not have expected us to have a zero number when we live, wherever we really are concerned about the lives of the people. That is why, Federal Chancellor: That's what we've heard: red manuscript and black manuscript – but to the concrete work, really with the problems of the people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19825	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19888	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Yes, the iPad is a term to me, not just that, but basically I know how to deal with it. As far as counter-financing is concerned, Mr Moser has referred to: We must not forget that €700 million from the fight against fraud was also missing from this pass or from the old projects – that is, from your predecessors, Mr. Federal Chancellor. These €700 million should also be included, which is what the budget service tells us, but also other experts. Well, when it comes to your government statement, I have to say one thing: It is not only a declaration of government, it is also a declaration of regulation. It is a declaration of regulation, because we also consider the intention of one out. One in, one out means yes: For each new regulation, for each new regulation that comes into force, another must go out. – But we are not moving forward, but we are standing there, and that is exactly the point. I think we should have the ambitious goal: two in, one... Excuse me, one in, two out, one in, two out. [[Abg. Peter Worm: That does...!]] Everything else, I think, is not progressive. Let us consider what is in the agenda 2025 of the Wifo, where we read the following: ‘The lack of competition caused by ‘overregulation’ constitutes a growth gap in Austria. By intensifying competition and reducing excessive regulation, substantial positive effects on economic growth are expected in Austria.” Furthermore, the Wifo writes, and with that I come to the jumping point: ‘Reduction of labour from taxes and additional labour costs is a fundamental condition for reducing unemployment.’ ‘Reduction of the factor of work’, that is, summarized in a short summary: On the one hand, regulation and bureaucracy have to be reduced, and on the other hand we need a massive relief from the work factor. We also need in fact more net of less gross! We have always said that we need more net of gross; the FPÖ has once told quite differently that it wants more gross from the net. Basically, we need more net of less gross. That is why it is happening, and only in this way can I create jobs by reducing the main wage costs, but in so far as the employees get much more. The tragic point in this country is – and this remains so with your government agreement – that employees cost too much and earn too little. That's the jumping point, we have to go. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] If I am thinking about the red tape you have mentioned, I wonder how this is going to happen if you are spending funding for 50 plus at the same time. This is a real step, but why is it that these people are unfortunately no longer or more difficult to integrate into the labour market? – You think you can achieve this with promotions. A promotion, however, also entails a bureaucratic effort. Would it not be different if we were to relieve ourselves dramatically and achieve more employment at 50 plus in this respect? – That would be the right step, and not a more bureaucratic effort. Finally, I need to get rid of one more thing: 99.7% of enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. 99.7 percent of all companies do not appear in your program; there is an early depreciation for investments. In the last government agreement and in the last savings package you have done one thing: Especially in tourism, they have increased the depreciation period to 40 years, which is dramatic. If you would also allow a functional depreciation or a reduction in depreciation duration, this would be the largest tourism package at all. It is also a matter of reducing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and huge numbers of areas, especially valleys, live by tourism: Not only the hotelier, not only the gastronomy, but also the carpenter, also the installer live on the investment activity of the company in tourism. There you should finally stop the bashing against tourism; I may also call the Burka ban a bashing against tourism. Ask the hoteliers in Zell am See, who today have been confronted by foreign journalists about what they should do with it! However, you should also ask those tourism companies which have gotten out of this government package again worse in this agreement: after the dramatic 30 percent increase in taxation on Logis, now also the failure to pay attention to early depreciation; because tourism cannot migrate because the hoteliers cannot move away, they sit on the 40 years, and those who have over 250 employees are in favour of a so-called early depreciation. That means for me, there must be quite different approaches. There must be approaches to get there in order to increase investment in order to create jobs. It is not only with promotions that you create them, but with dramatic discharges. Finally, I would like to say a positive word: The energy package is for the first time in the government declaration. It strengthens the industrial location. This is important, and I am very pleased, even because it has always been in the program – and you probably meant that in your speech: That's always been in the NEOS program. So it is important that we have a declaration of energy, an energy package inside, in particular, so that the industrial site can be secured in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19939	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e19960	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In some cases, we have heard an objective discussion from the opposition side. I think you can always - I don't need to repeat it for the twentieth time - determine the abundance of very good measures that are included; a few are hard to do. Mr Bundeskanzler, we must take care of further liberalisation in veterinary medicine: People like Mr. Dr. Strolls have difficulty in the diagnosis, they think a living federal government is a dead horse, possibly for a hippo. Col. Kickl believes that when birds are dead, they fly on in the sky. I believe that we are bringing together a minimum requirement in this area, too, in terms of word pictures. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] He's now in the aviation show, in the bird-flight show – very good, that's also a profession that we have in general trade, that's prognostic. The joke is just another one: This Federal Government has presented a serious government programme. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This federal government is the joke?]] No horse, no bird... [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – You still have not understood, Mr. Cot, typically! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The joke is this federal government?]] This country has actually had a performance in the last ten years, which is excellent. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Despite all the unmistakable calls, we have excellent businesses, excellent workers, excellent framework conditions with more than 300 settlements, an export economy that – although it could no longer join the success in the last few quarters but not because of our problem, but because the target markets have weaker growth – presupposes that it is fully competitive on global markets because it has good framework conditions. [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Höbart: Entrepreneurs...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] With this programme, the Federal Government is improving these conditions: more jobs, more research, more growth, more education, and – as you mentioned the safety chapter earlier – an integration programme to try to make those newly moved to fellow citizens who find employment here one day. [[Abg. Haider: You are the best example of a SPÖ...!]] [[Abg. Höbart: This has been excellently successful!]] That's where we made an integration package: German course, early inclusion – excellent program, well done, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Otherwise, read your articles on what Chancellor Kern will not bring together – today there is proof: The opposite is the case! [[Abg. Höbart: The newly drawn...!]] Well he brought it together! Your calling for recognition – no one has applauded you, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, and honestly: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] They could also deal with this subject matter once in a while. You probably can't do it – unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20099	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20121	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated ministers on the government bank and Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, Mr Matznetter, this government will already be able to prove in the near future how seriously it is taking the concerns and fears of the citizens – I thank all the people who sign the CETA and TTIP – and whether the citizens in this House will be chosen accordingly and the concerns and fears taken seriously. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Prior to this government programme: Yes, I hope it won't be painted politically again. I looked at the “round table” with interest in the evening and I hope that here the red and white-red manuscript for our great Austria will really hit through and wear it. I was in Germany on the weekend and have heard of the fears and concerns of our Bavarian neighbours, who are very similar to the problems of our citizens: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The guesthouses close down, the small business goes away, the rural area dies out. In one village, 41 milk suppliers are still left of two – one of them is talking about stopping, the other cannot because the bank does not let him. This is reality, and we must assume it. I have great hope both in the Chancellors of the Federal Republic and in the Presidents of the Federal Republic who have both spoken for rural areas and who have addressed the needs, fears and concerns of the rural population, which are ultimately nourishers of this Republic. There we are in great danger, ladies and gentlemen, we do not shut our eyes to reality! Austria has lost 9 percent fertile soil since 1961, the proportion of productive arable land and grassland has fallen to 38 percent. That is the reality, and I therefore lack this government programme of the crisis prevention plan and the food sovereignty plan. A word on asylum issues, because it is up-to-date in Germany – we have experienced this during the Berlin visit, when visiting the Federal Reichstag – and the Bavarian discussion of those here in Austria is similar: [[Abg. Matznetter: Reichstag has not been a long time, Mr. Colleague!]] A very profound expert in the scene has told me that asylum policy does not bring false figures together, but we are manipulated with wrong figures. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] In 2016 we had 150 000 attacks by non-EU citizens in Austria with no or insufficient travel documents. That's reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] At home in the cow stable, the Turkish left will no longer be cold, because the controllers will put the Turkish left in hand, and if a cow has a less earmark, we are a risk operation, and the asylumists really do have to be corrected immediately, otherwise this red and white-red program cannot be implemented. I am not talking about family succession here, I am not talking about the individual 75 000 attacks on the German border. That is the reality, that is to be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It was already very peculiar that the two most experienced horses, colleague Cap and colleague Auer, had to jump in with over 30 years of experience and explain to the speaker how successful this is. That is why I have taken along a little bit about the successes of the last governments. [[The speaker shows a panel on which a bar chart shows the level of average pensions for farmers, workers, employees and officials.]] – These are the facts on social policy, there is responsibility for that, yes: €777 Average pension for farmers with seven-day week farmers, the host and the small-scale farmers; €2,800 Average pension for officials with a three-and-a-half-day week – these are the facts. What does that lead to? – Of course, there is the Finance Minister of the affected: We have a 19 percent purchasing power loss for employees. [[The speaker shows a board on which the development of the real wages of workers, employees and contract staff as well as officials is represented under the title “Losing Workers, Gaining Officials”.]] This is exactly the money spent in the region. People can't afford a vacation anyway, they invest in the regional economy, they invest in families, they invest in the most necessary daily – and that's why the economy is doing so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Yes, Mr Commissioner, you have a very great experience of regional holidays; you are driving me across the border too often! Let's just say this to the families who have to come out with 1,500 €! Because of this social policy, there are 350 000 citizens who earn less than € 1,500 gross – they cannot afford a vacation. These are the facts, yes! Thank you, my colleague. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... Minimum wage!]] The essential – colleague Auer said it earlier, that's in the Preamble – it's the conservation and safeguarding of rural areas. But that's the only thing, and then it's over. It is always pointed out that one will entertain and advise with the stakeholders – a very rural expression. – We have the results from the last few years. You should once sit together with the practitioners who no longer want to lock the houses – not because the work they do not rejoice, but because they can simply cover the expenses, the costs no longer. We have prices at the farmhouses like 40 years ago, no matter in which sector – because we want to appeal to consumer patriotism, it is probably the Cow! For nine years in this House, in the Committee on Agriculture, in the relevant committees, a proper quality label has been suspended, the Austrian Quality Seal Act – and that is why we have these shortcomings, which is why in Europe we have the second largest import rate of palm oil, which is why natural products are replaced by this harmful fat that destroys the whole world – the whole world, the European space as well! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Italy has responded. In Italy, the Nutella Coop Group took out of the shelf – in Austria: Silence. These are the facts. Thank you for reporting correctly! The ORF has reported on the danger that ticks in our food, about what is listed by the food industry on the back of our consumers to increase profit margins. I think that is a very essential area. That is why I would ask you, Mr President, to reconsider the attitude of the Federal Farmers' Association, which has made a clear commitment to CETA, because it is so important for the export rate to be so important – with 38 per cent productive area in Austria, we can no longer feed our population, friends, that is the reality! – and not talk about the agricultural miracle and the export miracle. We have €2.5 billion in foreign trade deficit because Red Bull is counted as an agricultural export product. Ladies and gentlemen, let everyone decide for themselves what these statistics are worth. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I hope that the government under Chancellor Core with this new government agreement will actually implement most of this project – for our red and white-red Austria, so that the future of our children and grandchildren is secured here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20244	As the next speaker, Mr Ddr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20265	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! Remarkable about the German Federal Government's compromise paper – I would call it so – are the major gaps. Pension reform, care reform, federalism and administrative reform, including simplification of tax law, is no longer intended by the Federal Government for the maximum period of 18 months. However, these are essential future issues which the Federal Government is unable to deal with, and it would have been more honest to the people to open the way for new elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government acknowledges itself in the compromise paper on the sustainable relief of citizens and businesses from bureaucratic burdens and immediately creates a red tape with the first measure in the programme. In the case of the employment bonus, it is foreseen that, after the end of the calendar year, entrepreneurs will have to apply to the AWS to get 50 percent of the additional wage costs returned. Why are the supported companies not immediately relieved, and why is this measure even limited in time? Immediate relief would immediately increase the liquidity for companies and also not cause red tape for entrepreneurs, but also not for the AWS. Next point: In his speech, the Minister of Finance spoke on 16 June. January 2017 on red tape calls for the one-in-two-out principle for laws and promotions. For each new law, two old laws should be excluded from the legal system. It wasn't ambitious. The Federal Government agreed on a one-in-one-out principle 14 days later in its compromise paper, so that only a law is repealed for each new law. Three current examples where the official mold is particularly loud: First: The social security institution of the industrial economy exhorts its insured persons because of arrears of 35 cents, i.e. the post office and the working time that are taking place there is an insanity relative to the 35 cents. Second negative example: A construction contractor from Upper Austria was sentenced to a fine of €1,090 or 73 hours of replacement penalty in the second instance, because as a repeater he notified an employee 11 minutes too late. Third example: The labour inspector prohibits corporate heads from making the free fruit for employees, so this famous fruit basket has been banned by the labour inspector in Vienna. The reason: There would not be any employee who would control the fruit basket daily on lazy and depraved goods; however, such a safety professional was required in accordance with § 73 of the Workers' Protection Act. Such abuses must be stopped immediately! I don't have to abolish an entire law, there are plenty of individual paragraphs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the Federal Government is clearly struggling with the fight against bureaucracy, as these examples show. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In order to stimulate investment, the Federal Government compromise paper provides for a temporary possibility of early depreciation for larger companies. [[Abg. Shopf:... Repeater!]] – Mr Commissioner, we are already on another subject. [[Abg. Shopf: 15 times!]] Why is this not true for small and medium-sized enterprises?, you will now ask yourself. – The compromise paper states: ‘Small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from the already decided investment growth premium’. It's true, the Council of Ministers did on 25 May. This measure was adopted in October 2016. To date, however, it has remained with the Federal Government's announcement, because after more than three months the funding directives have still not been approved. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance are responsible for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Economic Party!]] The Minister of Finance has promised us the abolition of cold progression since July 2015: first for 2017, then for 2018, in the compromise paper now stands 2019 – because the tax reform 2015/2016 is supposed to work until then. But this is a fairy tale of the Minister of Finance. The tax reform was the partial repayment of overpaid taxes in the past, since nothing can work in the future. The tax reform restores €5 billion to taxpayers, which has been withdrawn from their pockets since 2009, i.e. in the past. Therefore, the cold progression does not only take effect in 2019, as the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor always preaches to us, but already now, and therefore the cold progression has to be abolished immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, the half-hearted solution of the Federal Government in connection with the cold progression shows that it does not really want to relieve citizens. First of all, the measure will be postponed to 2019 and there will also be social contributions. Let me give you an example: At a gross monthly salary of €1500, the employee pays €44 in wage tax, but €256 in social security contributions. In other words, the social security contribution is almost six times the wage tax. This worker cannot tax you by abolishing the cold progression tax at all, but only by reducing the social security contributions. The Federal Government has agreed on the smallest common denominator in this compromise paper, and there is no even the funding. This federal government has already wasted enough time. It is time for citizens and entrepreneurs to finally see actions so that the compromise paper does not remain a purely announcement programme, as is to be feared.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20374	The next speaker is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20395	Madam President. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said today that you took special care of women. – I do not think that this is apparent from this programme. We may be making up 51 percent of the population, but if I look at this paper, I feel like a political minority – too unimportant to take care of us to really address the problems we have. In fact, you could have stood up and said – freely after Jay Z: “If you’re having girl problems, I feel bad for you, sun. I get 99 problems but’ women’s policy ‘ain’t one’. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Is that a quote...?]] The two measures that seem to help women, the quota and a ban on burka, are the following: illiberal, premeditative and patriarchal. Men liberate women heroically from their inability to even come to the chief days of this nation. They liberate them heroically from their inability to abandon even the Burka. – Thank you to these six men who have negotiated these measures for us women; I feel really better and very emancipated! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Two more things, which the Federal Chancellor has mentioned, should also help women: a minimum wage and the employment programme for older workers. This is based on false facts and false assumptions. The employment package for older workers is based on the fact that there are more women than men who retire from unemployment. - That's not true. The problem of older workers is the lower retirement age. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And to the 1,500 € minimum wage: This can, even if two thirds of the women concerned are women, probably result in women losing their job due to a minimum wage being above average. – Well, but obviously this helps women! In the case of the quota that I would like to address now, you are trying to change the problem with the extremely visible hand of the Nanny State by requiring companies to see how many women in the supervisory councils must be, rather than fighting the problems that make it impossible for women to make a career or come to bosses, for example, that they still cannot reconcile children with careers in Austria. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: In Norway...!]] You have not only legally established that you do not trust women to come to supervisory councils on their own initiative, you have thereby also legally established that you do not trust companies to see that it makes sense to hire women. They probably believe that it is far too laborious, much too political to really change these things, which would allow women a self-determined, independent life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] We do not need a quota for this, and we need a reduction in the negative incentives to work, which then result in women in part-time work. For this we do not need a quota, we need an individual karenz law, which means that the care responsibility in Austria is finally lived fifty-fifty. [[Abg. Arbitrator: As in the NEOS Club!]] We don't do it all. [[Intercessions by Mr Gisela Wurm and Mr Schieder.]] Now to the decided ban on Burka: Mr. Vice-Chancellor had the threat of arguing with open society as a whole. - Karl Popper rotates in the grave. This is an illiberal forced measure. Funnyly – there must be the amount of cut between the conservative and the Social Democratic Nanny State somewhere – it is this way: The state intervenes in a woman's private life – and that is political, highly political. She is deprived of her freedom on two levels: on the one hand, her freedom to move in public space – they will be banished from the public – and on the other hand her freedom to decide for themselves how she wants to live her life. In my opinion, freedom is a value that hurts, too, because one has to endure the freedom of the other – but it is very important in a liberal democracy. What is happening here is that we are in the final effect that our liberal democracy is not strong enough. [[Abg. New builder: Are you talking about liberalism or freedom now?]] But if we ourselves are not convinced that this path is the better, why do we believe that other people who are not yet living like this will follow this path? We doubt our own liberal values. We doubt our own liberal democracy. The ban is symbolic, it is superficial and it is hypocritical, and it is an intervention into the liberal values of this republic – and that is why one has to be clear about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20498	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20540	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! New game, new luck – it seems to be the new motto of this federal government, and like a playful one, the bet is constantly increased, although the win is persistent; but if one is constantly on red and the other on black, then only the zero is left, and so is the win. And just as the addict keeps slipping into the mush, the longer he gets involved in such a game, the current account of this federal government is also showing down. The difference between a playful person and this government is, however, a more serious one: While the addict usually only ruins himself, this federal government is ruining the whole country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even this feels a hundredth so-called restart will not change the negative balance of this government. The 35 pages presented yesterday are the best proof of this. These presented measures are either half-hearted, come late or are even shaken by the motto: If I don't know any more, I'm making a working group, assigning a working group. A good example of this is the harmonisation of pension systems. For years, this decisive reform has been in the room, but is constantly being postponed. And now the same thing again: Assignment to a working group; read on page 10 of this paper. So nothing happens again. I don't know, are they the lucrative jobs for loyal partygoers or are there any influential individual interests to which you subordinate the interest of the state, the common good? I don't know what it's all about, I just know nothing goes on at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is similar with the cold progression. The Minister of Finance has declared great that he will abolish the cold progression, this secret tax increase without a parliamentary decision. – And again, only a lazy compromise has come out. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mr Matznetter, you have talked about where the joke lies. – Where the bad joke lies, I can tell you: The cold progression will not be eliminated at all, it will only be slightly dampened for the first two tariff levels, and this only if the cumulative inflation reaches 5 percent. In 2016, for example, inflation amounted to 0.9 percent. If this regulation will enter into force in 2019 – you will not be in office for a long time – then we will be far away from this 5 percent and then it will probably take up to 2026 – that is, a total of nine years! – until that really takes place. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are we far away from the 5 percent!]] – You really want to sell that to the citizen as a big throw, as a great success? For me, this is the taxpayer's frog! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] It would have been so easy: Income Tax Act, § 33 add a small addition by writing in that tax levels are adjusted annually to inflation. – So simple, so obvious – so impossible for this federal government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What else is it about the big problems Austria has to deal with? What measures are being taken to control the exploding social costs? What measures are being taken to control the exploding health costs? What measures are being taken to reform the structures of the State? What measures are being taken to wood the jungle? – The answer is always the same and is always the same sad! At the end, still remains the eternal question: How will these proposed measures be financed from your paper? What about counter-financing? – To this end, you have written exactly a sentence in your paper, a single sentence for counter-financing, and I have to quote it now: “ Counter-financing is carried out through cost-absorbing measures – e.g. administrative efficiency, funding efficiency, prioritisation, e-government as well as savings for distributed units and property costs.” Please? Is that what you're serious about? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, everywhere!]] You think that's what the taxpayer's supposed to do? That's all you really didn't think of? Did you not have time to talk about counter-funding in the face of a loud dispute? That really hits the barrel out of the ground! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] But it's quite clear: Who cares for counter-financing when the money comes from the taxpayer anyway? So quite honestly, we are really used to a lot of this federal government, but that is a very strong piece. How do you, for example, want to increase your own support efficiency if you have not even managed to set up a functional transparency database?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How do you want to increase administrative efficiency – including from your paper – if you have blocked any administrative reform from the outset from the outset?- Oh, my God! When I read this insult of every co-thinking taxpayer, I also knew perfectly why you didn't get so fast with the cold progression: You need the money, of course, because you have no idea where else you get it. So stay as a conclusion: This is not a reform programme, it is not a work programme – or whatever you want to titulate it – because reforms and innovations are being used in this paper. This is the totally inadequate attempt to spread sand into the eyes of the citizens and to pretend to be operational. This is the last sad renunciation of an incompetent federal government. Just let it stay! Make the way clear for a government that under governments understands something other than to fight and preserve its possession! Make the way for a real reform force! For the FPÖ and Heinz-Christian Strache you should clear the way!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20635	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20657	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government's statement on the work programme "For Austria": 35 pages contain measures for the economy and the labour market, research, education, security, integration and so on. Without a doubt, there are some good approaches, Mr Bundeskanzler, only: How does implementation look and why have these measures not already been implemented? – You should not have reinvented this, but it is still the same federal government that should have already implemented these measures but has not implemented them. 35 pages thin or thick – as you can see – but 4 billion € hard is supposed to be the new work programme of this Federal Government. Without a doubt, there are some points that are in order. 23 points for business and work: 70 000 jobs will be created, an employment bonus will be created, the research premium for companies will be increased from 12 to 14 per cent, and a reduction in additional labour costs will be sought. If someone fails to set up a company, then a restart should be made quickly. Novelles are to come to the Workers' Protection Act, help for older apprentices and difficult to find. But one thing, Mr Muchitsch, which you, as an employee representative, also have to say, is not clear to me: that the termination opportunities for 50+ should be loosened. Dear Josef Muchich, I'm telling you: The fact is that a person who is over 50 years of age and becomes unemployed has a very difficult time. This is why we should perhaps look for other measures, rather than loosening the possibility of termination in order to conclude new service contracts, as we already know. I think everyone who was once unemployed knows how difficult this can be, and I think that other measures than these should be considered. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20690	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20713	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear viewers! Arthur Schopenhauer, a world-famous philosopher, once said: “Health is certainly not all, but without health everything is nothing.” That is to say, from a purely medical point of view, this work programme, this government programme, is almost nothing because it contains almost nothing about health, because the topics of health, health reform and the financing of the same, the transformation of the system that is urgently needed, are only strangled. I only think that the waiting times for CT and MRI investigations should now be guided by the government and finally reduced by social security schemes. It's explicitly in there. That, ladies and gentlemen, could have been done a long time ago, because I mean, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs have a duty of supervision over social security. As a doctor, I have to experience daily that people have to wait eight, ten, twelve weeks for examinations and then come to me in the ordination and ask how to speed this up. I have to say that I can't speed it up, unfortunately, because it's from social insurance and not from the X-ray institutes et cetera. Then humans may experience despair if, for example, there is suspicion of a tumor. And then what happens? – These people, these patients are being pushed from the system to private medicine, into a lot of schooled private medicine. They pay €250 or € 270 or € 220 for an MRI or a CT. – This makes a social democratically oriented social insurance in Austria with its insured persons! I think it is far too little if you only respond to the long waiting times and only include CT and MRT studies in the programme, whereas the entire system is in need of massive reform. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Example: Radiation therapy problems. Oncological patients in Austria are already dying if they are still on the waiting list. It's always in the direction of England, how terrible it's going to be in England, but: In Austria we have patients who die on the waiting list. That's reality! Why do they die? - Because they don't get a place on oncology, on radiationoncology. Who cares? - No one! Who's in the gangbeds? – Austrian old patients lie in gangbeds in Vienna. Who cares? Our human rights fighters? - No! They were marched in Traiskirchen at the time, when migrants had to sleep outdoors at summer temperatures, two nights. At that time, the human rights activists screamed and roared, today, where people die in beds on the corridor in Vienna hospitals, in the truest sense of the word, no one from Amnesty International dares to go to a red Vienna hospital. At least I've never seen one there before. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is a national concern: that the dignity of human beings is also observed by the Austrians, that the Austrians are also protected, and not only those who come to us. This is all good and beautiful, but if we only care about those who come to us and let our own people perish, then I think this is a very bad neglect of our own citizens. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Federal Chancellor! In your plan A – which has already been laid ad acta again, I believe; I do not know, this does not exactly come out of the paper – which you have presented in Wels, says the self-holds are abolished, we are now doing all this with the left. Left is this idea maybe, but how will you finance it? You didn't tell us. Her obsessive wife of the Wiener Gebietskasse says that she could not be self-preserved, but at the same time operated continuously with silent and hidden self-retaining. We have a self-retaining of 17 to 21 percent in Vienna, and if we no longer have it, Federal Chancellor, then you can lock the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and probably all the others – the Lower Austrian et cetera – regional health care phone as well. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] So in this work programme, I miss an indication of how to finance all of this. How does this work with self-retaining now? How does this work with the hidden self-reservation, with the open self-retaining at the small insurances et cetera? These are crazy things that are in detail that the patients, the citizens also all know. They haven't gotten so stupid and even on the noodle soup that they don't get that, they get it very well. You're going to the election doctor. Elector: Last summer we heard from SP-side, the election doctor's reimbursement should be abolished. Get away with the electoral cost refund! Today we hear that self-tention should be abolished. What would have been the abolition of the redundancies? – The most massive increase in self retention! People are being pushed back into private medicine, although they don't want to hear from a two-class medicine. Now I would like to know how many people here on the social democratic side have private insurance. – Probably all of you, what I think is hypocrisy: always attack private insurance, but at the same time don’t set up social insurance in such a way that it really works for everyone to the same extent. These are all things that one should take care of, out of national consciousness as an Austrian, the Austrians who cannot afford this system. That's where you should sit. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would have liked to know how we should finance all of this, which is on these 35 sides, because it is nowhere exactly. It works with counter-funding et cetera, but how we should pay for the way the Austrian is supposed to pay it, while at the same time spending €2.5 billion a year on migration, I would like to explain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20823	Mr Magistrate now has his own power. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20844	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In the population there is a great longing, and you will now wonder what this great longing is. – It is banal, namely: the longing for a government and for a parliament that both work. When you discuss, you know, the last thing people want is new elections. Although this is not satisfactory in terms of democracy, there is something like a struggle for election, and I can understand it after a year of Federal presidential election. That is also the reason why I quite welcome you to try again. But one thing has to be clear to you: This is the last chance! If you fail, that will most likely bring the Freedom Party to power. [[Demonstrative applause with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] You, SPÖ and ÖVP, now bear the responsibility that this Republic does not fall into the hands of this party. The citizens do not want to support the FPÖ with a voice for the FPÖ, but they want to punish ÖVP and SPÖ, and it is indeed a punishment when our Republic falls into the hands of the FPÖ. We do not need to think back so long, the courts in Carinthia, in Austria today are still dealing with the processing processes regarding what has been done in the context of free government participation in criminal offences. Or do we look at the United States, where right-wing populists have just come to power! Mr. Strache is something like a child admirer of Mr. Trump; he is happy via Facebook, he travels to the Angelobung and participates in an event there. It is a childly naïve joy which he expresses there, and he does not know so well, is torn back and forth: Once he is sitting in Moscow with Mr Putin on the lap, then he is running into the United States and is sitting on Mr. Trump's lap. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And you sit at SPÖ and ÖVP on the lap, permanently!]] He's a little disoriented, the jetlag looks at him, but he's been torn back and forth between these two models. But if you look at what is happening in the United States, you have to say what politicians are doing to this cutting is a warning to the Freedom Party. The United States, a strong democracy, is turning it around politically completely at the moment – it is supposed to remain apart from our country, and that is also your co-responsible, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To your package: I have the claim that the great questions of the future and justice will be answered. People want to know if they're getting their money. What if you get unemployed, you can pay for your rent? That's the big question of justice, and that's a question that interests not only those who have little money but all of us. What makes our society, that is cohesion, that is the fact that our model builds on the fact that there is prosperity and that we draw our well-being and our social stability precisely from having cohesion in this society. This cohesion must not be threatened, and therefore part of the package is to be assessed whether you can offer a package of justice. I would judge this ambivalently, I would like to be so fair. The minimum wage is a start to create for those who earn little. You will see whether in summer you will successfully bring home what you announce in this paper, i.e. a minimum wage of €1500 over the social partners. At the second point, you were already less successful, and this is the topic of renting. We have been discussing the rising rents for three years. 50.60 percent of the income of low-earners goes up for living. – That’s a question of existence, but not a word on the subject of rental interest-rate regulation in your paper! That's too little. We have been discussing minimum security for months. – No word for minimum security! Next point: the major issues of the future. – There is nothing about climate strategy in the paper, about education a few points. Now I'm coming to the headquarters. Those who have little to offer on the subject of justice, those who are concerned about education, those who have little to offer on the subject of future issues are looking for a substitute field, and the substitute field that this Federal Government has been looking for is security. If you can't show muscles politically anymore, you're looking for security policy to show the population that you're still there. If you say that all the intensifications contained in this package – and this is a monitoring package – are due to the changed security situation, then I say – you are a short part of it – that we have heard for eight years. A terrorist attack – an intensification! A year and a half ago, the State Protection Act was adopted, which was the ultimate response to the threat situation. It's all forgotten today. New measures must be introduced which are presented as the ultimate solution. I tell you, there will be another one, because there is no ultimate security, but because there is something like a balance between fundamental freedoms, civil liberties on the one hand, and security on the other, and this balance has been completely lost in you. Some of them are placebo; the Minister of Justice is behind me. The last sentence, to the foot-belt for dangerous persons: To this end, you say that the footband is something like the relief rather than the arrest. If there are grounds for investigation in the case of hazards, this risk will probably be taken into custody. However, if there are no grounds for investigation, you are not satisfied with the amount of the remedy, because this can only be applied instead of an arrest. The whole thing is a simple placebo that you present here. They want to advance the security of the population. You want to precipitate the population, you still have something to do in a political field, because you are developing too little power in the other fields. I wish you all the best because I have no desire to fail and because I believe it would be good for this republic to have a contest for good ideas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20903	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, colleagues on support and implementation of the work programme of the Federal Government 2017/2018 “For Austria”. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. Only official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. I now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later. Please, Mrs Lueger.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e20977	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21015	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 167; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 99, No votes: 68. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Arbitrators, Dr. Lopatka, ladies and gentlemen, are therefore adopted. (E 187.) [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klug, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bernhard, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl, Brunner; Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Franz, Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela, Glavischnig-Piesczek; port plotter, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart; Jannach, Jarmer; Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lasar, Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache; Vavrik; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21222	We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on entry bans of the U.S. government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 188.) [[17:30:28]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the proposal from Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on the protection of human rights on the Internet (1462, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21267	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21294	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers at home in front of the TV screens! You may have noticed – here in the high house all know –: Despite months of announcements, there is no law at all here today; and this resolution of the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP to their own federal government is no longer than hot air and probably not even worth the paper on which it was written, and – even worse – it is precisely damn dangerous. That also reminds me a little of a fairy tale, of the fairy tale “The Emperor’s New Dresses. ” With this request, you puddle and add and at the end of the day stand completely naked, because contrary to what this request proposes, the Internet is by no means a right-free space: We have the Prohibition Act, we have the crime of hatred; and the two of them apply in the virtual world as well as in the host world. Professor Reindl-Krauskopf of the University Vienna has already said it in an interview: not the criminality – as you suggest in this proposal, ladies and gentlemen – but enforcement is the problem. I would like to give you something that an intelligent person whom I think we all appreciate, namely Professor Holzinger, the President of the Constitutional Court, has said, along the way. He referred to the question “It will be discussed to ban fake news, false news spread on the Internet. What do you think?” replied the following – and this is so important that I really quote it fully –: “That’s what I urge to be careful. The European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court and many other constitutional courts qualify freedom of expression as an essential element of a free society." [[Abg. Brosz: What does it have to do with hate postings?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives at Kassager and Walter Rosenkranz.]] ‘From this freedom it should be concluded that opinions which are harmful, shocking or disturbing to the State or to parts of the population, or which are wrong, are also of such protection. You should not question this high goods. If there are some manifestations that require criminal sanctions, the criminal laws will have to be amended accordingly. But a state truth authority: That’s apocalyptic.” That’s exactly what you want to introduce with this request: a state truth authority that can then decide what is true and what is not true. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: That's not true!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you don't have to be so upset. I think you have only voted in favour of this request for coalition, because it was quite unpleasant for you, because your own Minister of Justice has already informed you in the Human Rights Committee that this is a fool, that it is a failure if he continues to negotiate with Facebook and so on and achieves enforceability, instead of imposing another request for a strengthening of sanctions, because that is never the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The criminal offences are quite narrow and are always in a state of tension with freedom of expression, but there is also freedom of opinion, even if we may not like them on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21381	The next speaker is Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke on the subject. I should like to add a few points and point out that it is important to look at it and not look away that you act and become active rather than ignore it. The false messages, the conscious false messages, the hate postings out. It is only the tip of the iceberg to see, only a small part; there was a triple in a short time. There is a need for action – against humiliation, against intimidation, against the expropriation of individual people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can defend ourselves, the ordinary citizen cannot or can hardly defend himself. The normal population can hardly defend itself, and it is therefore all the more important to become active here. Ladies and gentlemen! Freedom of expression is the highest good, freedom of expression and diversity of opinion are the prerequisites for democracy and freedom! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Grate migration, the field of tension – yes, that is the challenge, but the freedom of one ends where he limits the freedom of the other. That is the rule, even on this subject the freedom of one ends where he limits the freedom of the other. That is important and this is also true and appropriate in this case, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the anonymity, the supposed anonymity of a hate posting leads to social robbery. The fast and easy mouse click reduces the brake threshold enormously. Hatred postings and targeted false messages affect the discourse about the Social issues and solutions are extremely negative. They are therefore vulnerable to the appreciative dialogue. In the case of precise observatories – and to this I call – you can find: Yes, they are exactly contrary; it is a small step from violence in words of violence in action! Finally, I would like to thank all those who have a positive impact: the Council of Europe, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education for the Protection of Children and Young People, the Federal Council and the Federal Chancellery. Ladies and gentlemen, I am seeking broad approval. It is about protection and freedom of expression! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21457	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21478	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the problem is real, but the discussion about hate speech on the Internet is characterized by missing definitions and problem descriptions. What's hate? What's such a hate posting? – Hatred can take many forms. In principle, the following should be distinguished: Is this statement criminally relevant, or is it a hateful statement, which falls in the area of opinion and has no legal relevance? We also have to deal with this in some way, and in between there may be a grey area. In the argumentation, however, this structure is not taken into account, but it is unhesitatingly mixed. There is a level of injury, threat and insult, which is less strong or stronger. Mr Minister, in the Federal Council's survey you said: “Whoever sows hates will reap prison.” – That’s not that simple, of course. If someone says something like: I hate the Niko Alm!, acting, then it's clearly a hate posting when it's written, but then I can only hope that the person or that one doesn't reap prison, because it's completely legitimate to articulate that, that's opinion. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the same survey, State Secretary Duzdar said that freedom of expression does not mean that you can write what you want. – But that’s exactly what freedom of expression means, that I can write what I want. This can sometimes be harmful, which can lead to an insult and is still an opinion and not a hatred or any other crime. We should define the area we are talking about. Not every form of articulated hatred is a hate post. We have to separate what is criminally relevant, and we have to devote ourselves to it. In this area I wish for accuracy. This is actually also the easy exercise that it is important to do, and it certainly also has preventive effect. The difficult exercise is then to get in control or address the authorized and the grey area, and this in turn must not lead to censorship. Nor should private media be obliged to determine for themselves what is relevant and what is not. The same applies, of course, to social media infrastructures. Facebook may, of course, delete content and enforce certain rules of play, as other online media do, according to their own discretion, but no obligation can be derived from it, preventatively, without judicial arrangement, to delete things. Of course, this only leads to the removal of a fee, so that nothing happens. It has also been addressed in the area of fake news. It is also interesting how this can contribute to hatred, or can also be used here as a grate walk when it comes to satire. Of course, the “day press ” so loved by all of us would have a problem if it were not to spread their fake news. Although satire is usually easily recognizable, there is, of course, also hatred that is tarrying as a satire – it is not particularly easy to deal with it. You can't control this either through the media concept of social media infrastructures. You can't just make Facebook a medium so they can have easier access to the content. Of course, Facebook has media-like structures, such as the algorithmically curated timeline, but just as this could perhaps be defined as a medium, the profiles hosted by Facebook cannot make Facebook a medium, but actually show the players in these social media infrastructures as a medium. That is, we must also take the people involved in these infrastructures into account. The solution can therefore only go over enforcement, and it cannot be designed to further restrict freedom of expression. There are already enough sections in the StGB that have this to do, including paragraphs 111, 115, 116 – about which you can discuss yourself, of course – and of course also paragraphs 188. If the SPÖ/ÖVP proposal now states that “the Federal Minister for Justice is asked to take concrete measures (...)... to protect citizens from unjustified attacks and insults on the Internet,” it sounds rather impoverishing in view of how bad that is, because we are talking primarily about threats, slander and hatred. To choose a formulation here that sounds like it's enough to make someone feel offended will certainly not be fair to the problem. This is rather counterproductive.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21540	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21564	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear visitors to the gallery and dear spectators in front of the screens! First of all: Mr Schrangl, you have now been mad at the fact that this is a fake news issue and that we want to introduce a truth authority in Austria. – This is a complete misinterpretation of our request. Please read the application text again! There's nothing about Fake News and nothing about a Truth Authority. In the Committee too, the Minister has clearly expressed his views on the matter and has maintained that there will never be such a thing with him, and that is what I see. On the contrary: We have tabled this motion for a resolution here in Parliament so that we can support the Minister of Justice in his efforts at national and European level, but also therefore – and this is very important to me personally – that we discuss this issue of hatred on the net here in the House. We all know – no matter how it is ordered now, whether it is hate or perhaps not yet – and we all agree, as I mean, that this kind of derailment or this kind of harsh speech and excessive sharpness is increasing in the social media and that we already have to look at what is happening. Our Federal Minister has already done a lot about criminal offences; only last but not least have five new special state lawyers against hatred been installed on the network. Of course, it is also necessary that we work closely across Europe to bring companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Microsoft and others into even more duty. Personally, I am absolutely convinced that it is very, very important to inform people about what rights they have and where they can turn in order to be able to sue these rights. Young people, in particular, often feel very delivered by these animosities on the Internet. In this respect, I am not going to d’accord with my colleague Alm anymore: I think the free expression of opinion is already okay, but if a young girl is put under complete pressure now, no longer trusts in the house, the nerves are perfect in the end and threatens suicide, then that can no longer be all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] [[Abg. Pretty: Yes, but that's not the point! That's not the...!]] This has nothing more to do with free speech and freedom of expression. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's punishable already!]] I believe that cybermobbing is terrible and cruel and that it often meets people who are already in a difficult situation anyway. That is why we simply have the task of supporting and informing them. [[Abg. Pretty: Yes, but that's not the point, Mrs. Colleague!]] In the end, this story may be very interesting: There was an article in the “Mirror” before Christmas or the autumn season, which was quite interesting – I don’t know who read it from you. The German politician Renate Kühnast tried once in the summer, or she did her best to visit some of the hate posters she met hardest. – I have to say honestly: Shut up! It is not so easy to go to someone who has directed everything possible over the Internet. I can only recommend you to read this article. It is very interesting and also shows, above all, that many of these hate postings are unthinkable and sometimes made out of an emotion. If you address the poster directly to it and, so to speak, draw responsibility, then they are appalled at themselves. I think that would also be a good way of pointing out to the people that they are exaggerating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21639	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21661	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I come back to the fact that already, under applicable law, hurting, insulting, aggressive statements on the Internet – on Neudeutsche: so-called hate postings – can achieve various criminal offences. As an example, I mention here the insult, the slander, the insult, the degradation of religious teachings. It is also true that these acts are largely criminalised and that there is also the possibility for victims to join in the proceedings with their civil damages claims. So I wonder, Why this motion for a resolution? Mr Kirchgatterer, it is true when you say it is important that you look and not look away, but there is also another wisdom that says that the opposite of good is well meant. – That, I mean, is the case here. What it is not about here is that one puts Islamist hate preachers or right-hand or left-wing agitators on the net – that we want it – is, as I mean, of course – but the question is: How far can and should the State go, when it comes to misguided opinions, which hurt, shocking, which are unpleasant to prevent or prevent them or to impose punishment? Mr Alm has already raised the question: When will a posting become a hate posting? When's a speech a hate speech? And above all: Who should ultimately be the moral authority that decides on this? – The European Court of Human Rights, including our Constitutional Court, Professor Holzinger, and ultimately we, too, are of the opinion that the right of free expression is an essential part of a free society, and, as has already been said, it must be derived from this freedom that opinions which are shocking, injurious, unfit for the state or for parts of the population are also not appropriate, as well as such protection. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: How, for example, is it to be done against a Facebook user who, after seeing a video, cuts his head off by an IS fighter to a defenseless person, to force this murderer to wish the same thing? Or the other way around, maybe a little more provocative: How should the criminal authorities react if someone on the net bets the government and wants it to be the devil? – Of course, such statements are not to be blamed, but, of course, with a restriction on freedom of expression, nothing is to be won, because the population will then in other ways give air to their displeasure. We must therefore ask ourselves where the causes of such an increase in hate postings are. If people in our country are constantly reading or hearing in the media that illegal migrants or immigrants or immigrants or criminals or women are brutally raped, injured or killed, or group-by-group sexual harassment, if they have to find that these criminals are dealing with drugs for years, illegally in the country – as was recently found in Graz at a Razzia, for example, when 13 Nigerians, twelve Afghans and relatives have been arrested by other nationalities because of the suspicion of dealing with drugs – they wonder why they are still here. They feel powerless because they feel nothing happens – and then perhaps even some decent citizens can get to post anything on the net that he would never do. – This raises the question of how we act against it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of submitting a motion for a resolution, especially since we know that the Federal Minister has already set up several initiatives anyway, but we must combat the causes of these fake news or hate postings. Then we're on the right track. Therefore – in conclusion – I see this motion for a resolution only as a typical left-wing proposal, with which parts of the SPÖ and parts of the ÖVP want to offer themselves to the Greens or other extra-parliamentary left-wing groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21702	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21724	Let us point out whether the Austrian People's Party really wants to offer itself at left-wing radicals. That's where everyone is supposed to make a judgment. – I mean, what you can say in any case to limit the subject is: We're not talking about fake news. Fake News is about spreading wrong content, hate postings are about sending aggressive, violent, verbalized postings. A few examples – opinion or hatred? This has got a moderator: “One should pull the uterus, rinse out and give a protection seeker as a drinking hose on the journey into the desert. This would be twice as economic as possible". – hatred or opinion?, I ask. I am not sure, Mr Minister of Justice, I would ask you to give your opinion, whether this would be of any relevance to criminal law at the moment. "They belong to the next tree and were also shot for treason. The Glock is ready.” – This may be a dangerous threat. “Because you allow rapes of others with your infirmity, and should not be spared from them yourselves,” and, and,. I have hate postings here, I don't read them because they're unreasonable in their articulation. This is not a matter of opinion, this is about hatred, which the person concerned is to be massively intimidated and restricted. It's right: Much of it is now under criminal law, but not completely, that's why we're discussing here. The hatred has some weaknesses: For example, the hatred has the weakness that human dignity must be touched, and there is the Judicatur very strict. There you have to agree more or less on the right to live or give someone animal names, and there is a demand for intention. That means that the person must just have the intention of agreeing to someone's dignity. What does that mean? – You can say relatively easily afterwards: That was Satire – I know that – I didn't know that, that wasn't serious. All of this calls into question the intention. In the face of the dangerous threat, the point is that the threat must be very concrete. If you want something, this sufficient concreteization will usually not exist. And much, and that is crucial, what is articulated here as a hate posting, that is right, is covered by honorary insult. In that respect, it is also completely wrong to act here as if the criminal law framework would be extremely extended. The problem of honorary control is as follows: The victim of these massive violent abuses must be brought to justice in the context of a private contribution and thus bear the financial costs and the risk. This is the weakness of the private debt offence, and that is why this debate is happening here: Where are gaps on the one hand in the hatred, on the other hand in the violence of honor – I always see that where one wants something, always very violently charged or sexually connoted, i.e. sexual violence – or where is the condition simply dissatisfying, since the victim has to defend himself? Now, if someone's insulting me and saying, Steinhauser, you idiot! Then I will be able to defend myself, and it will also be reasonable for every citizen and every citizen to defend himself in court or simply to say: [[Call: Then he's right.]] Oh, my God, that's part of a meddling stage. – As a politician, you have to endure this kind of thing. I suspect that, as a politician, I – and I am already on the next issue – would even lose such a procedure in the context of freedom of expression, but it cannot be that it is then the privilege of a few less politicians who have the economic opportunity to resist serious insults while durny users on the Internet do not have this possibility. That is exactly what the debate is due. On the freedom of expression: Freedom of expression is indeed central, and it is God-protected through the European Convention on Human Rights. However, that is also to say, the legislator has to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and cannot act contrary to the Convention, and the Judicature, the case law, obviously has to take into account freedom of expression. A person who would feel restricted in freedom of expression by a judgment based on such a case-law discussed here would have the opportunity to go to the European Court of Human Rights and defend himself against it. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights has a strict case law and defends this right to freedom of expression as well – Austria has also been condemned repeatedly for misdemeanors. That is to say, the shield of freedom of expression is tense, and under this shield, the legislator has a lot of responsibility to fill gaps on the one hand and, on the other hand, to take the burden from the victim in very serious cases, to defend himself against these most serious insults. I mean, there are limits in which they are said that this is a state matter, so that one does not turn it on the victim, but the state responsibility is perceived. - That's exactly what we're discussing. The situation has become worse through the Internet. There's probably hate since there's been humanity, but in the past someone may have cheated at the innkeeper's desk, maybe it's all unpleasant enough – but, of course, the Internet is a multiplier lever that multiplys this hatred and calls it far into the world. The people concerned face this powerless and then, as it were, see themselves heavily restricted in their living conditions, and that is the new quality. It is not that the hatred is increasing, but that there is simply a speaker – which we all like to use. The Internet is an achievement, but this is a side effect, and the legislator has to react: with an eye, no question, but he has to respond. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21757	Now, Minister of State Dr. Brandstetter to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21779	Mr President. I think – and this is precisely what I am thinking – that this request has actually been valuable only because it has already become a truly high-quality one. Debates of the European Parliament This applies in particular to the last contribution by Mr Steinhauser, who I can fully support, but all the other contributions have also shown to me that the issue is one that is really very serious and at the highest level here in Parliament. This is gratifying, and I think that what comes out in the final analysis of the request, namely the call for more efforts to enforce law, has quite its meaning and has already found its precipitation, because the initiative of the Federal Government against violence on the net has already led to some achievements. I am really on the front with Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar. We are doing what we can to really intensify the fight against hate crime, especially in the net. There has already been a lot of happening, and we will also be able to implement some practical achievements in the next time, such as the display forms available via the Internet. We will also try to improve a lot in the area of authority powers. We have created special responsibilities, as I have already pointed out today. We will be able to strengthen the special prosecutors responsible for this in the larger prosecutors – this is what it is currently planned – together with Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar, for this is something that must ultimately be carried by the Federal Chancellor's Office. We are really one and the same opinion: You have to do more about hate crime. This is also the opinion of the European Commission. In particular, the Commissioner for Justice is very own-initiative and, of course, she can negotiate with the large, globally active, profit-oriented Internet giants. As a small individual state, we are, of course, already more difficult, although it is also necessary to say clearly, as has already been stressed several times: We have no special right, not even for the large Internet companies, and if it is true that, despite the public prosecutor's request, clearly criminal content is simply not removed within the possible time limit, there will also be criminal proceedings – and there are also those pending. I just think it's important to keep three areas apart. What you said just animated me to make that clear again. It's perfectly clear: A ministry that decides on the truth is a real horror. This reminds me of what George Orwell described in his novel “1984. ” There is such a Ministry of Truth there. I can only join what has already been quoted. Mr President-in-Office of the Constitution Holzinger has found the right words. Such a thing is naturally unthinkable. This issue cannot be dealt with either. It is not about the state having the right to decide what truth is and what is not. If it were not so serious, you could really enjoy what has just been published in recent days – more about “alternative facts” and similar word creations. There you can only say: Truth is something that no state authority can certainly decide on insofar as it could simply be made a regulation. - No, I don't think so. This is not the area around which this is about. But it is, and this is the second point, about the area in which individual property rights are massively affected by individual people, and there it becomes serious. If a student, as has already happened in Austria, simply doesn't stand up to the mobbing over the Internet and kills himself, commits suicide, then this is a situation in which the state has to intervene with criminal law standards – in the interests of this individual property and also in the sense of what we have, at last again and again, legitimately put it in the foreground, namely to strengthen the protection of immaterial individual property. That's what we've done with cybermobbing, and that's just what it takes. Where people really suffer, where people are really individually affected by hatreds, by hatreds that are especially spread on the Internet in their legal assets, the state has to intervene to protect them. To do so, we are, in fact, obliged to do so. This can happen to any one of us. – This is the second point you need to define. The third point – yes, it's going deeper: I stick to the fact that the one who sows hatred and violence – I said so – should reap prison. That is true, because ultimately it is only a small step from violence in words of violence in action. Now I come to a hard-to-understand area, but I do not want to let go of it, especially now that the events of Schattendorf are yearning again: There are so many historical examples to learn from. Think of the case of Borodajkewycz, in which violence in words also became very quickly violent in action! Or think about the events of Schattendorf: What was that? – That was ultimately blind hatred against dissidents, which actually caused the downfall of the often “appreciated republic”. – This expression of Hugo Portisch is true. In the end, the Republic was unable to exist. That was due to this hatred. With hatred, there is no state to do, only with commonness, and this requires the overcoming of this hatred. Since, I think, it is also important to remember again and again that hatred is an extremely destructive force. There, where he damages individual legal goods, he has to be penally opposed to them – no question. Moreover, at a higher political level – at your level, ladies and gentlemen! – but you should remember again and again what happens if you do not succeed in curbing hatred. He's always here. Sometimes I wonder if he's still there or already there. - I don't know. Overall, I think it is worth considering even beyond Sunday's speeches, which are particularly due on anniversary, which the hatred in society as a whole can do. That is how this proposal has its power, and it has also motivated me to continue within the scope of our possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21861	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21882	Mr President. Minister of Justice! At the beginning, I must say that what Mr Kirchgatterer said about freedom – about the freedom that ends where it is going to be a disadvantage to the other – is quoted from the first principle of the Party program of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Kirchgatterer: Not just there!]] Thank you for that. This sentence can only be clearly underlined. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are on the subject of the protection of human rights on the Internet, I am particularly interested in this proposal because it comes from the ranks of those governments who have just joined forces, it has set up a new programme and is trying to improve the way it has gone so far. A request is then made to ask the Minister to continue the efforts with all due consequence. – It could be suggested that you haven't done this until now. Secondly, it calls for the protection of citizens. – I again suggest the same thing, but not my opinion. [[Federal Minister Brandstetter: You don't have to!]] Thirdly, it calls on the EU initiatives to continue to be supported. – I assume, Minister, that you will continue to support them in the future! And if we are already dealing with the problem of law enforcement in this matter, which is very difficult – I think we agree – then we have to add, as you have rightly said, that we cannot solve this problem alone in Austria, because it is not because the operators, as you have rightly said, must be involved in this problem, but this operator landscape is located to a large extent in the US. If we now look at the different access to freedom of expression – from the US perspective on the one hand, from the European point of view on the other, and possibly from the point of view of Austria, then I must say that it will, of course, be very difficult for operators to put on the right horse for their thinking. [[Abg. Doppler: Not on the dead!]] – This is the difficulty in this matter. But if, in the future, this surveillance and this support in connection with extortion and slander on the Internet are to be carried out quite explicitly, then the following must be clear to us – even in view of the fact that we have already used five prosecutors more – that it can become a very costly thing while we have indeed undertaken to limit the bureaucracy and the administration. This will certainly not be possible with this request. And finally, one thing – I'm standing there, I'm completely d'accord with you: The truth should always be said, regardless of whether this truth hurts or reflects positive effects. It is not possible in this proposal to see a solution to the problem of how to combat all crime on the Internet, better than so far, nor do I see – and that is essential to me – any approach to de-bureaucratisation or administrative simplification. In this sense, we cannot accept this request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21951	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e21973	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've told you before: I am writing a work on hatred, in which I have looked at all the records from ads up to five-year convictions. This shows, among other things, that in these five years, the prosecutor's office has determined cases throughout the country in 603 cases, resulting in a total of 80 main proceedings, i.e. judicial proceedings. This is an Austrian average of 13.27 percent. If you look at that in Vorarlberg 50 percent of all ads lead to a negotiation, at least 45 percent in Salzburg, but only 3.98 percent in Vienna, then I think that it is an absolutely right step to do what you have announced in the “profile” and to increase the number of these five prosecutors, especially in the east of Austria, if there are some other structural reasons behind this uneven distribution. However, it is quite certain that it is important to increase the public prosecutors in Vienna or in the east of Austria, because the personnel equipment is simply not available to carry out the investigations with that intensity, as it would really be necessary to stop hatred, and as it is obviously done in Vorarlberg and in Salzburg. – On the one hand, that is to say, a really sensible measure to be followed and followed. Secondly, I am also active internationally in the fight against anti-Semitism, in the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combining Anti-Semitism, and we have been conducting as such for many years on direct headquarters with Microsoft, Google, Facebook and like them all hot conversations on the issue of combating anti-Semitism in the web. The problem is that there are many verbal promises: Yes, of course, let's definitely do it! But in reality, nothing does. I once posted a photo from a U.S. museum that presented an act on Facebook – and you can believe me, US museums are neither a hort of sexual debauchery nor a hort of pornography – and this photo was deleted from my Facebook page within less than 60 minutes. On the other hand, if anti-Semitic content – be it images, be it texts, whether sung or spoken – appears on Facebook, they disappear as well as never. Even if you point out that even if you ask Facebook, even if you look at it, nothing happens at all. I think there is really a great need for action on this issue. I also see that as Austria, we cannot do this alone, but only in the EU's concert. Although we know that it is really very difficult, for example, when the servers are in the USA, and in the USA because of the 1. Amendments to the Constitution have a completely different access to freedom of expression than we do, but we still have to succeed, that we also have a control in Europe, for example, of anti-Semitism – and anti-Semitism is hate, even in the net of course – can be really efficient. In this sense, we still have a proper fight in front of us, but we should lead together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22018	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22039	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of the protection of human rights on the Internet: There must be precise rules of play and also precise legal conditions for what is allowed and what is forbidden. All citizens affected by unwarranted attacks and insults on the Internet are entitled to their rights. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that there are still concerns about freedom of expression when it comes to extending the laws. The Minister of Justice has announced that he will also install five prosecutors who deal mainly with the fight against hate crime on the Internet. The prosecutors, as far as the information provided by the Minister of Justice is concerned, should also cooperate closely with the planned reporting bodies. One – also a statement by the Minister of Justice – is already correct and important: There must be no special rights for various offline networks. - Thank you. - Now he's gone. [[Federal Minister Brandstetter: (the former one on one side of the government bank with Abg. Huainigg had spoken and just took his place again) Already again!]] - He's back!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22078	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22099	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was spoken by the previous speakers a lot about grey zones, about a grate hike. It is, of course, a very complex matter, a complicated matter that is not easy to solve, but that shows that this request is necessary and that it makes sense to talk about this matter, especially here in the House, because it is very likely to create awareness, to raise people's awareness of this issue as well. I therefore welcome the fact that there is this discussion. However, I am sorry that this discussion is being taken up by some of the speakers as follows: Well, this creates more bureaucracy and there are no savings! or that you say you should do it somehow in Brussels or maybe you can't do anything anyway because that's to be done in the US. – No, we are required here and have to do something here, because, of course, there have always been conflicts, even earlier, between neighbors over the garden fence – perhaps one has become hand-growed, bad enough – or when children have been held in schools – also bad enough – but we have already arrived in a different dimension today. When we look at the possibilities of social media, the possibilities on the Internet, we see that small conflicts that are bad are potentated and multiplied. A person who is not in the public, who is not aware of the fact that he can be exposed to criticism, a daily person, suddenly finds himself in a situation that represents a huge pressure for him and becomes uncontrollable. That's why the state has to protect it. Of course, it is a gratification, and we have to talk about it, because the examples that honourable Members Steinhauser has cited here are such examples that show that the individual needs to be protected. That's where the state has to intervene. Man cannot be left alone. It is not about freedom of expression. If someone says that the Federal Government should be sent to the devil – the concreteization of this circumstance becomes difficult – or if someone says that the Federal Government is incapable, then that is his good right, that is a political statement. That's not why it's not, but it's about someone being filled with hatred, and without repeating the examples you mentioned, Mr Steinhauser, there's something you have to do. It is important that the Federal Minister launches the initiative with the additional prosecutors. It also enters into force on the European Commission, which, together with the IT companies, has drawn up a code of conduct to define a guideline. The new record of cybermobbing has also been introduced – the Federal Minister has mentioned it – because there are unfortunately cases where children, students, have been muttered in such a way that they then committed suicide. This is dramatic, and it has to be protected. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness of this issue and, as has been said, to talk about these things, up to the major issues such as anti-Semitism or racism. It can't be that people who do such things may be encouraged and do it even more and spread more, because nothing happens to them. Therefore: Sure, it's a gratification, and you have to see that you get it over the stage properly, but an intensive debate is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22148	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22169	Mr President. Minister! High house! On the issue of the protection of human rights on the Internet, a lot has already been discussed, always very much in relation to individual law. I would like to draw on the concepts of quality of information and targeted manipulation to a greater extent. It is known that different services with targeted misinformation influence and manipulate opinions. It is necessary to imagine that there may be hundreds or thousands of people involved in disseminating false or semi-true information and in doing so, in public opinion to influence, manipulate, or at all produce opinions in the social media. The latest trend is that of the so-called Social Bots, which sends tens of thousands of messages of one-sided nature or targeted nature, producing so-called information clouds, which can also influence elections in a certain order. In 2015, for example, a conference was held in Vilnius, where Russia was shown to have discredited European values in Lithuania or Lithuania in general with the means we have just described to build up aggression potential. In this way, targeted and professionally with misinformation and all the populist means of propaganda is also tried to weaken Western democracies and thereby gain benefits. This procedure differs greatly from the right of freedom of expression. This is a very, very important right, but it will be lost specifically. The public is specifically misinformed by misinformation. Business models of Facebook, WhatsApp and similar social media channels still support this process. It will not be easy to deal with this issue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22199	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22221	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Internet has many bright pages, but it also has its shadow pages, which have already been discussed, with hate postings and Shitstorms. To him must It is a question of combating human rights and the dignity of human beings. That is why I also welcome this motion for a resolution and the task of taking action against it. I would like to address another issue that has been discussed in the Committee: respect for human rights in reality, namely for older and disabled people who are under control and need support. A reform of the board of experts is planned, which has been decided in the Council of Ministers and which has also been welcomed by all the parties to the Committee, namely the so-called Adult Protection Act. This law carries out a paradigm change away from demise to support, namely for targeted support, in the areas where every person needs it. This does not lead to general support and redundancies, as has often been the case with the board of experts. It's a very good reform. It also provides for a clearing procedure in which each person concerned is considered individually to be what he can and how to assess his abilities. We will discuss this in the Justice Committee, it is an important implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. I would like to expressly welcome the development of this law. In the ministry, affected people, disabled people, intellectually disabled people have discussed and co-designed, as provided for in the UN Convention. This is also very exemplary for other Ministries and Bills. To that end, I am very much looking forward to the decision-making – also in the sense of human dignity, as it should be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22260	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22281	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, freedom of expression is a fundamental pillar of democracy, that is undisputed. I think we're all convinced of that. But if this freedom leads to expressions that are harmful to others – namely, individually damaging to the very dramatic effects, as the Minister has described – or are also offensive to a whole group of people, then I am convinced that we, as legislators, have the responsibility to do something about it. Hate postings are aggressive, provocative, intimidating postings on the Internet; this has been demonstrated by Mr Steinhauser with very dramatic examples. I think that is just more than freedom of expression, that is something different than freedom of expression. It also makes no difference whether the face-to-face happens or on the Internet, I just have the impression that in online forums, in social media the thresholds are just much deeper. That's why it's good that we discuss this too. There are criminal offences in this respect, which we have already heard today, we have also decided in January 2016 several legislative novels. But there has to be a further development, and I am convinced of that. For me, in addition to the criminal prosecution of these authors of hate postings, this perpetrator is also part of the creation of consciousness. One must be aware- creating that it is not normal to hate other people, that it is morally unacceptable and also criminally relevant if you violate other people on the Internet, in forums. I think you have to work on this, and you have to look at it, and above all you have to ask for the responsibility of the parents. On the one hand, it applies to the parents of perpetrators when it comes to children pointing out that they commit criminal offences on the Internet. However, it is also necessary to tell the parents of victims how their children can resist what measures there are in order to act and act strongly. I am also convinced that there is also a responsibility of people in public life, be sportsmen, singers or artists, and above all we politicians. We, too, have a very high responsibility for being a good model and for not using our own words, as the Minister has said, perhaps even animated the fact that the thresholds are getting a little deeper. That's why I call all of us: Let us work against it, let us point out that it is morally unacceptable and that it is also criminally relevant if hate postings are sent out on the Internet, because this is not just a cavalier crime! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22333	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The right to freedom of expression is undoubtedly a very, very high good. However, it becomes a problem where the right of another person is involved, where actions are taken or false claims are made that harm another person or endanger public peace. Of course, the responsibility for journalists and the media is very, very high. There are always attempts to manipulate journalists. Yes, journalists can manipulate and can also be manipulated, so it is good that we have rules there. More difficult than the traditional media, it is with the new media, in dealing with the Internet. The Internet has created countless new opportunities. Speed, cross-border availability or anonymity are just some features of the Internet. In practice, everyone can act as a journalist. However, a shadow side of the Internet is that human rights violations have increased sharply online. Above all, the possibility of putting everything possible in opinions and allegations largely anonymously into the world is a temptation for many. The challenges of the right now lie in being able to guarantee offline standards online as well. So what's to do? – Internet forum operators are invited to set up protective measures. If they fail to comply with this call, States should be obliged to create a sufficient framework of protection within the meaning of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I think we are on a good path in Austria with Federal Minister Brandstetter. Mr Federal Minister, let us continue this path consistently!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22396	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22418	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a shadow page of the Internet today in the National Council. The fact is that in online forums and on social media platforms there are slanders, verbal injuries, serious ailments. The Federal Minister clearly speaks of excessive hate crime. Then there are the false reports that often overlap in a grey zone with the slanders. For me, this is also a problem because it stimulates the mood – a mood that is not always pleasing, but on the contrary. This is not a virtual world, it is part of the reality in which we live. What used to be at the main table was now suddenly reaching a mass audience. That's a problem. It's about malicious insults, aggressive mental injuries, call damage. We need to be aware of this. The anonymity of the network, the human distance that has come in with this technology, accelerates the reduction of the inhibitory threshold. This is different than talking to each other. It's different. That is, technology is also a factor that makes evil easier. I am pleased that Justice Minister Brandstetter shows high sensitivity in this matter. However, I should also like to point out that German Chancellor Kern also takes a clear position on this problem of hate postings in his Plan A. It is a matter of implementing a number of things quickly in this area, which the government is looking at. A point is advice and help. We are discussing what we want to improve in practice. The proposals of the State Secretary Duzdar to set up a public reporting and advisory body against hate postings are under way and will be implemented in the first half of the year. It is about psychological and legal advice on these issues. This is a great step forward. I also very much welcome the five new special state lawyers against hatred on the web. Of course, this debate is a gratification. It is a gratification between freedom of expression on the one hand and protection against slander on the other. What I'm sad about is that the FPÖ is winding, that it's not going along. It did not go along with the change in criminal law on cybercrime. I'm sorry she's out there. I think that we are taking a big step towards maintaining a respectable culture of conversation in Austria in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22449	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22471	Mr President. Minister! High house! Two thoughts: Firstly, hate as such – and I say that now following Niko Alm – can never be punishable, of course, but it always has to add a special element to make it legally tangible. But it is also very interesting to approach the hatred of right-wing philosophy. André Glucksmann wrote a book on this: ‘Hass: The return of elementary violence.” Second thought: We are always very happy to call in accordance with criminal law, according to the motto: I'm punishing, so I'm, or: I'm punishing, so I'm good! In this context, I would like to quote former President Barack Obama in response to a video that has led to great unrest, demonstrations and even killings. After condemning this work, he reminded the American tradition of “not forbidding even offensive statements of opinion. ” He said: “We don’t do this because we support hate speeches, but because our founding fathers have understood that without such a protection the ability of each individual to represent his views and exercise his faith could be threatened.” “In a pluralist society,” he continued, “the strongest weapon against hate speech is not oppression, but more free speech (...) the voices of tolerance, opposition to fanaticism and blasphemy, and uphold the values such as understanding and mutual respect.” – I quote the highly recommended book “Redemption” by Timothy Garton Ash, who formulated in it ten principles for the connected world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22507	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22528	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I too have enjoyed the discussion very much. You've seen: Those who have recognised the problem of our digital world, the Internet – which we will benefit from – and the dangers we face know that we need to act. In particular, you have to work when you have heard the quotations of our colleague Steinhauser. Women, children, young people are particularly vulnerable. If you don't do anything there, if you don't offer advice, you look and hide behind something. We then see how those concerned can perish and not defend themselves. I'm talking about young people. It was said of suicide, of women who no longer trust outside the house and so on. That means that we need both criminal prosecution and advice. In this context, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our three members of the government. I would like to thank the Minister for Education, who would also like to bring digital competence to popular schools. It's not just about using – it's not that, as Col. Moser said, the children can lubricate around on the tablet, and that's what it's all about – but also about the dangers the technology poses. This competence is also important. With you, Minister of State, I thank you, of course, for the five special state lawyers. We will need them – unfortunately. But it's good that you've responded. I would also like to thank our State Secretary Muna Duzdar. It will set up a low-level advisory office to provide information, both in the speaking hours and by e-mail and telephone. There will be advice offered. In this sense, I thank all participants. I would like to thank the colleague Kirchgatterer and colleague Pfurtscheller for the initiative. I thank you for your full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22574	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22595	Mr President. Federal Minister! We believe it is necessary for the first time today to have the opportunity to hold a debate here in plenary on hatred on the net. There are many things you can address, including the differentiation between Fake News and Hassposting. There's a big difference. Incidentally, false news will never be relevant to criminal law. It makes a difference: If I post that it had 15 degrees plus yesterday in Vienna, then it is irrelevant, even if it was wrong. It's something else if the posting has effects that can affect a life. There are clear differences. By the way, media law has often been addressed. Mr Sobotka spoke of it in the early days. I sometimes wonder what debates are being held here. Facebook is a medium, you have said that in the committee last but not least. I think we should get closer to what that means. I'm gonna ask you: How many people sitting in here are actually a medium? – Anyone who has and operates a Facebook account is a medium under criminal and legal law. Facebook is not a medium in that sense. I can personally prosecute anyone on whose account are personally criminal elements with private-law charges. I can't do that against Facebook as a group. This is not yet the question of whether it is a medium, but the central question is whether media law is applicable against Facebook, so not whether it is a medium in itself. Let's take a look at the practice of Facebook – and this is what I want to put at the heart of my remarks! What does Facebook do? – Facebook is the world’s largest hate platform. I also say this here from this point of view, we have also named it in several broadcasts, because Facebook does not fight hatred, but promotes hatred – and that is clearly evidenced! Things that can easily be traced against individuals are still not deleted by Facebook, but accepted. There was an OTS of us in which we also mentioned some of these things by name, for example the posting: “Hallelöchen Eva Glavischnik du infidel Nazi Drecksfotze...”. – We reported that on Facebook. And do you know what the Facebook response was? – This does not conflict with the Community standards of Facebook. - That's Facebook. As you say, Facebook is very much about legal standards. Every user who does that, I can complain. However, I can only complain to him if I know where he lives. Now it becomes complicated because Facebook has no obligation that it also announces how the addresses are. That is, if you get this message related to yourself, you can act against it if you find out who the user is and where he is reported. What does Facebook do in a case where they say we have a problem, we don't find it? – A famous example: Mrs. Jaskova; this has already occurred. Ms. Jaskova was this profile about which the cancer rumors about Alexander Van der Bellen have been spread. There was the presumption from the beginning that this is a fake account in the sense that there is no account. According to the Austrian E-Commerce Act, a group is obliged to publish the data it has. The person Michaela Jaskova Facebook is reported, and the answer comes: We don't release the data. Exciting is when you do the same at “uncensored.at”, where anonymous users are also on it, then “uncensored.at” continues the data of the persons who posted there. By the way, this is an interesting information, you can't do it there either. Facebook just doesn't do that. You can complain about Facebook, we did that. We recorded the cost risk of the procedure at about €50 000. As a private person, we can afford that. Facebook just says: We don't release the data. Facebook is clearly above the law in another form: Facebook doesn't delete any postings. There are court rulings in Austria that they are to be erased under media law. Facebook doesn't delete. Facebook doesn't delete any posting. What Facebook is doing is that it is blocking access from Austrian servers. It's not a deletion. In all the other countries of the world, exactly these postings, which are criminally condemned, are still available. Facebook is also above the law. These two things we have mentioned in the proceedings against Facebook. We can do that, we can say it's possible. You can have it translated, you can have translation costs. It has already been found that there is at least an Austrian court where this procedure can be conducted with the cost factors behind it. Facebook is very much about the legal standards behind it. I believe that all negotiations with Facebook have not continued in recent times. Facebook has a multi-class registration practice. We would like to be ready – we have already offered it several times – to re-enter an exchange. We've been doing this for a year and a half. How does the Group react? What do they do with individual messages? What forms do they indicate? – Try to report the same post as an individual once, Mr Minister, and then report it as Minister Brandstetter! You will find that all the things that have been reported by a normal user and are not deleted are safely deleted – Minister Brandstetter is at the top of the hierarchy. If it insists, it is the legal representation of Mrs Glawischnig, it will also be deleted. If the simple user reports the same posting, it will not be deleted, leg hard not deleted. They have a practice in which they only respond to the hierarchy and ensure that they can be accused of having pressure or having no pressure. That's the situation we're talking about here. That's where you need to look more closely as you go on. You just can't report against many things, you can resist it. One has only the problem, one gets a judgment on the most serious insults, and if the person has no money, one remains on the court costs. In many cases that happens. You can afford this as an institution, as a private person it will be quite difficult to take action against it, but then it will remain on Facebook as well. – So far to Facebook. I am really willing to share experiences with you and see where you can go. Mr Kumpitsch said earlier that some people post something because it's so bad that they don't really mean it and how it goes on. Let's take a look at what's going on under a video – you don't have to go into this right now – and by the way, it's posted in an opinion! This is an opinion when you put in a video with your own opinion; and then you come up with answers. Andreas F. – so I call him – comes from Aschach, he is perhaps some known, he was at least FPÖ councillor. On this point, Video posted: “I think they are longing for a rape of this perverse dungy!”!” – Opinion? Next post, after a dialog: “You’re saying it to this island of Pavian would like to be fucked by 20 black monkeys this stupid nut!!!!” – 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Someone who is the FPÖ congregation whose postings are read by many, of whom there has been no response, who, I believe, until yesterday or yesterday, as, I think, the “Kronen Zeitung” has reported about it, was the councillor of the FPÖ. This is the situation we have in Austria. And now I also ask the NEOS to say that is no longer an opinion. We're not talking about opinion. I hope we can make the differentiation. This is not a matter of opinion, it is about a form of which you want to know whether you want to accept it or whether you do not want to accept it. I believe that the Austrian Parliament urgently needs to take massive steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22683	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the resolution on the protection of human rights on the Internet annexed to the Committee's report 1462. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 189.) [[18:46:41]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 63, 72, 74, 78, 85, 87, 89 and 91 and on the citizens' initiative No. 103 (1463 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22726	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Steger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22753	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today there are some petitions on the agenda again. In my speech, I would like to deal with the petition I have made to the Civil Service Law. What is required in this petition? – It is a problem whose origin can be found in the mid-1980s. It is about the fact that in the Austrian federal army there are thousands of time soldiers or former time soldiers who have to suffer massive cuts and disadvantages in their retirement due to a system of civil service law, i.e. a 30-month cover for their service. That is, all those months, which were also served as a time soldier, are not recognized as a contribution time. Thousands of people are affected by this. More specifically, about 45 000 people are affected, either in the private sector or in the public service, or in the federal army. And precisely these people are particularly victims of the system. that, because until the mid-1970s, the time-sold service relationship was even a condition to enter into a service relationship with the German army at all later times. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! They are responsible for the loss of their pension rights, because you are not able to fix this scheme. These people are entitled to this pension benefit and they are entitled to these contribution periods. It is not as if no money had been paid at all: by the € 93 million, which now only benefits the payer to a limited extent. This, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, is absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, this is also an injustice that is not new to this government. We have already made several requests and requests for them. For example, many people who have been affected repeatedly turn to the People’s Procuratorate in order to draw attention to it. And both the People's Procuratorate and the Ministry of State Defense always turn to the Ministry of Social Affairs to stop it. As early as 1997 – you have to imagine this: 1997! – the then Minister for Defence of the ÖVP has announced in an answer – and I quote – that he will soon and as soon as possible take care of the problem, get in touch with the Minister of Social Affairs and bring about a solution. – “In the near future”, that was 1997, we now have the year 2017. The problem is known not only to the ÖVP, but also to the SPÖ, because in 2013, the SPÖ Minister of State for Defence even wrote exactly the same in an opinion. But there has been no implementation for years. This is consistently prevented. I wonder, of course: Why? Why, Dear Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, is this injustice not reversed? You know the problem. They also believe that something needs to be done. You even announce it, but They don't do anything – for years nothing at all! This seems to be a process that is immanent to this government, because we are experiencing it at all levels. They're announcement giants, but they're implementation dwarfs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This time we even have a petition with thousands of signatures. But what is being done? – I can say that now: This petition is taken note of, and it is once again experiencing a first-class funeral. By the way, this is also a process that is urgently covered once. In this way you will be dealing with citizens in Austria; but we will give you another opportunity not only to announce but also to actually implement it. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! Voices To this request so that you can at last prove that petitions are not completely free of charge and so that this injustice will finally be eliminated!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22853	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Steger is sufficiently supported, so it is a matter of negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22903	Next word: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22924	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Steger! I would like to reject this clearly, because if you say that since 1997, I can recall a time when you have put the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Defence. I do not understand why you did not solve the problem at this time. But please, it's always like what you don't solve in your own time, you try to push the other one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lausch: But you needed 20 years! 20 years! What are 5 years around 20 years old? That's an example!]] At the last meeting, 33 petitions and citizens' initiatives were brought in or negotiated. Today, we have a total of six petitions and a citizens' initiative, which we take note of, but we have also allocated two petitions – one to the Health Committee and one to the Transport Committee. The rest were also handed over to the Ministry for opinions to obtain appropriate opinions. It is new to us that we question the mid-term board or the association of the energy industry, the association of the real estate industry and also the trade association of the standing officials. I have been in this committee for some time now, but this is the first time that we have the opportunity to question these bodies. I would like to thank these bodies, because of course it is a great effort to respond to these comments. We are particularly concerned about the fact that people who are in practice give us the input in this form, the way in which we take our opinions or when we work out these citizens' initiatives or petitions. I would like to thank you very much for always receiving answers from these institutions. It is clear from the nature of the matter that we have different opinions on a number of points, whether we are aware of this, whether we are assigning it to a committee or whether we are getting further opinions. Of course, it is always in the foreground that we see how we can give support to citizens in any form. I would like to give an example, namely the Starktromwegengesetz. I assume that Mr Pirklhuber will also give an opinion on this. There has been a clear opinion from the Ministry of Economic Affairs stating that, in the context of the authorisation procedure, all the foreseeable effects of such a management building are assessed and processed. A general definition is not acceptable in the law due to the diversity of the considerations to be taken into account in such a management structure and it must be decided in individual cases. But one thing is very important, and I believe that this petition has also started: The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planning to work out non-legislative aspects of this wiring in the form of an survey or an expert workshop. I mean, it's very important that we have the experts at the table on this, and then we can discuss it accordingly. As I said, there are many inputs that we have to do with this, and of course it is true that the intruders do not always refer to federal law, but we also have different other things. I'm just saying we've got a lot of post offices that've already been set up. We have another issue on which, I believe, Mr Preiner will say something, namely that citizens want to keep a financial office. There was only the proceeds, and this financial office is still here. Although I do not always know whether everyone agrees with the financial office, it has been a positive result for these citizens. We discuss the broker commissions, we also discuss health issues – medicines or treatments on health care – and it is, I believe, very important that we also get the corresponding input here. It's a huge variety of topics, I think we're taking new paths. We must always focus on keeping an eye on the concerns of citizens and trying to support them as best we can.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22972	Mrs Mühlberghuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e22993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of today's debate on the report, I would like to refer to the 103 citizens' initiative. This is the inclusion of childbirth in the basic care of every hospital. This concern was supported by more than 2,500 citizens. This citizen initiative was introduced by Petra Kapinus, who has already made himself a name for himself as a speaker of the Pro Gyn Waidhofen initiative. In Waidhofen an der Thaya, a second birth station was closed after Gmünd. Citizens there are afraid that due to the long routes to Zwettl or Horn, problems can arise in the care of pregnant women and in complications at birth. This regional, very successful citizens' initiative was supported not only by 16 000 people, but also by the Lower Austrian Landtag, our group has opposed the closure of the birthplace. Unfortunately, the people's wishes remained unheard of, and so the committed woman Kapinus now introduced a citizens' initiative in the National Council. It calls for a federal law by which the birth aid is included in the basic care throughout Austria. Births should therefore also be possible in smaller hospitals, regardless of the size of the hospital and the number of cases. There were seven opinions on this. There are various arguments and reasons for this. For example, it is argued that minimum frequencies are necessary for each subject area to ensure satisfactory quality in treatment. These are said to be 365 births a year – an example: Waidhofen an der Thaya has about 300 births in the year. Too few staff, both in specialists and midwives, are also a reason for not being able to offer birthplaces in every hospital. In its opinion, the Medical Chamber emphasises the need for structured scientific preparation of the entire planning process. We have supported and voted against this Citizens' Initiative in the Committee, because we are also in favour of having a birth centre in each hospital, including qualified doctors and midwives who accompany our new Earth citizens in the first minutes of their lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23033	Next speaker: Deputies Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23055	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In principle, I can recall that there has been this right of petition in Austria for almost 70 years. It is a constitutionally protected right, each of us can bring in a so-called petition or 500 citizens entitled to vote can address their concerns directly to the legislation. There are just these possibilities. The prerequisite for this is, of course, that legislation and enforcement are a federal matter. Some petitions and citizens' initiatives have already been discussed. In 2016 we treated, discussed and allocated 45 petitions and 41 citizens' initiatives in Austria. Of course, not always – I say – one-way between government parties and opposition, but nevertheless, in recent times, I believe, Mr Pirklhuber, we have always tried to explore the possibilities offered by this committee and to ensure that the issues are dealt with in an intensive manner. It is always very much about environmental issues, it is about maintaining sustainable and citizen-friendly infrastructure, about health issues, about ensuring quality of life, such as noise protection, but also about energy issues. There is currently also a citizens’ initiative “Helping facts!” which concerns the analysis of the reasons and motives for abortions, which can also be supported online. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are also currently some petitions concerning the improvement of postal services in Austria. Colleague Pfurtscheller has filed a petition to receive the post office Prutz in the Tyrolean Oberland. This petition was carried by eight municipalities with over 4,400 inhabitants. The reason for this was that a post office was closed because it was not cost-effective to conduct in the long run. Of course, there has been resistance and trouble in the municipalities. There has then been negotiations between Post AG, the municipality and a private operator from the economy, and in this form we have been able to ensure the receipt of postal services for Prutz. It is about the fact that we now have a postal service of the same quality as before. In this context, I would mention that it was possible to provide additional services in addition to postal services and to extend the opening hours. That is why this petition is being taken note of today, and I hope that I wish and invite that we will be more effective in bringing citizens into our work in the National Council in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23100	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23121	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Joint report on petitions and citizens' initiatives, Mr Gahr has just mentioned: This is a very important parliamentary body so that the concerns of the citizens of Parliament can be reflected. I am voting on the 103 citizens' initiative: The legal framework is to be established to include birth aid in the basic care of each hospital throughout Austria. This will ensure that future births in smaller hospitals are possible or remain possible, regardless of the size of the hospital and the number of cases. This is a very important and correct approach. To be exact, ladies and gentlemen, it would have to be: “Inclusion of gynecology and obstetrics into the basic care of every hospital, thus providing comprehensive protection of gynecology and obstetrics throughout Austria”. – This is also the case in the opinions of the medical board, the midwives and the like, because a gynecology belongs to the birth aid. I spoke to Dr. Franz in advance: It is a fact that there can naturally be complications, and then a department to protect the woman and the child is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23158	Next, Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23179	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the statements made by my colleagues regarding the participation of citizens in this House. I believe it is really crucial that this committee, Mr Lipitsch, has already pointed out that Mr Gahr, too, is trying to involve citizens' concerns in the work as much as possible. And I think there's still some potential for improvement. Let us look at it in concrete terms – tomorrow we will also discuss it – the popular desire “Gegen TTIP, CETA and TiSA”. In the Committee on Petitions, we had numerous municipal resolutions, initiatives. We have dealt with these in a hearing in committee, and we have continued to work to ensure that there is a parliamentary survey. We have also carried out this parliamentary survey – unfortunately not publicly! – there is a good protocol to this. Now, due to the initiative of NGOs and mayors from Lower Austria, which I also supported from the outset, this parliamentary popular desire was initiated. We have done it and we will continue to talk about it in the house. There is a whole set of opportunities that citizens have to get involved. But what is still missing, ladies and gentlemen, is due! The commitment of dealing with these initiatives, and we have been fighting for so long that there are substantial improvements. We have one, that is, online support, and we see that even without major PR work, many citizens participate in this online support system. Let us look, for example, at the initiative "Equal", the marriage for equal partners, which has so far had more than 38 000 support; or the initiative of the Members of the Mückstein and Glawischnig-Piesczek on psychotherapy related to disease, which already has more than 12 000 support, also online! One sees the strong participation in these forums, and that is very important. We can also be proud of this together, we have achieved that. What is missing, ladies and gentlemen, are, for example, the possibility of introducing a citizens' initiative online or a consultation of the initiators of an initiative, which is binding on the Rules of Procedure. The citizens expect them to be able to exchange with us directly in the Committee and then also to deal with it by the experts. One particular concern that I have been pursuing personally for several years is also to better reflect local policy in Parliament. There is a resolution of the market community Walding, which refers to the removal from a cover of the minimum protection for multiple-child families. I tell you, in this community, the SPÖ municipalities have decided with the Green Municipal Councils. Other resolutions have been signed or supported by all parties. There are therefore very different resolutions, and I also welcome the fact that the ÖVP and SPÖ colleagues are now seriously involved in these resolutions. We have asked for and received an opinion from the Austrian poverty conference, and it has shown very well that this cover with €1500 would cause massive cuts, especially for multi-child families, that this is socially irresponsible. So here too there is a decision-making aid for professionals, for further discussion. This can be done through good initiatives, good petitions and citizens' initiatives. For example, psychotherapy is particularly crucial for health care. Mr Mückstein has shown very well how important this is in the meantime. Only when we see that as the reason for early retirement is the mental burden in the first place, do we recognize the importance that this has for society. Unfortunately, only a fraction of the costs will be reimbursed by social security institutions. This initiative is to thank God, who has been assigned to the Health Committee, which may lead to the breakthrough that, even in the government programme, some aspects have been mentioned in this regard, there can be an improvement through parliamentary work. I expect that we should work together for that. This could also be a step towards upgrading the process in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. The initiative I would also like to address concerns the amendment of the Starktromwegengesetz; Mr Lipitsch has already mentioned it. We welcome the survey in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Lipitsch, but why have we not allocated this initiative to the Economic Committee? There, in cooperation with the experts of the survey, MEPs could have discussed the subject in terms of content. That would actually have been the logical consequence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential: We still need these improvements in the House's Rules of Procedure in this legislative period, so that these petitions and citizens' initiatives can be dealt with even better than before and, in fact, provide the impetus for practical work that citizens expect. It is about the serious treatment and involvement of their concerns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23237	Next, Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23259	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers! I would like to address two citizens' initiatives, but also the statements made by my predecessor, Mr Pirklhuber. On the question of popular desire and the rejection of TTIP and CETA: I believe that we are in fact discussing a subject which is of considerable relevance. It's the one that's taken it. So with the current US president, I suppose, there won't be so much free trade. For this very reason, I say that Europe should strengthen Canada's backs with a little more economic growth in order to be able to perform in North America accordingly. We will therefore continue to support CETA. In general, however, from my point of view, the two themes of popular desire and parliamentary citizens' initiatives cannot be mixed, since they are very different instruments. Constitutional speakers are currently working on a reform due to the democratic survey. Unfortunately, as a petition speaker, we are not directly involved, but our political groups are already. You will soon receive new information, which I have only received today. There seems to be an electronic citizens' initiative, which is one of the demands of NEOS and also of the Greens. I would like to stress two points from the last committee: In my opinion, this is the biggest failure we have had in the Committee last time, namely the 103 citizens' initiative – some of my previous speakers have already mentioned it. The topic is the inclusion of gynecology and obstetrics in the basic care of every hospital, thus providing comprehensive protection of gynecology and obstetrics throughout Austria. This was introduced by Mrs Petra Kapinus, and the citizens' initiative was sufficiently supported by more than 1 300 signatures in total. What's the subject? – The issue is that, due to our federal structure, health care is in the Federal territory. That is, the individual federal states also decide where hospitals are with which focus and in which radius the whole is organized. The federal states can vote together, but do not have to. That is, if they vote and do not make it the way it should be, then this has no consequences for them. Indeed, suffering is the citizens. What's the clou in history? – The Land Princes can switch and operate as they please. The concern we have with Members is to feel when you turn to us and say that you have the feeling that the health care system is not sufficiently secure. I dare not say now that the specific concern is correct or wrong, because it is, of course, so that at birth stations a corresponding number of births have to take place so that the quality is a sufficient one. However, the majority of SPÖ and ÖVP in the Committee voted in favour of the fact that we cannot be discussed by health policy makers in the Health Committee. This is, of course, sad because we take the black and the black-red Peter on our shoulders with it – apologies – in this case, which would not be necessary. By the way, we also received a message from the initiator, namely that we were not the first, but the last point of contact. She wrote: You were my last chance. What do you want me to do? – It did not mean the NEOS or the Greens, but Parliament. In order not only to produce the negative – there was also a lot of light in the committee and there was also progress – I would like to mention that a petition has been passed on to the Transport Committee, which on the one hand, the inclusion and promotion of electric cars, which has already been brought to the rails by the legislation, and also the subject of car sharing in road transport. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) This will soon be discussed in the Transport Committee, and I am very grateful for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23319	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23340	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! As Mr Pirklhuber has already said, I should like to thank the Signatories and Signatories for this popular desire. [[a table with the following title: “CETA + TTIP country leaders” on the speaker’s desk]] At this point, I should also like to highlight a person from Upper Austria who has been very committed: Mr. Gernot Almesberger, who led the initiative platform Stops TTIP and CETA. I am not of the opinion of Mr Bernhard that these negotiations are closed, but I believe that we must continue to work very hard on them. With regard to these petitions, I should like to mention in particular the petition for the preservation of the post office in Prutz. Why? – Because I am currently living in my own neighboring town of Regau, where I have my company, which is the closure of a post office. We have already talked about the government programme, the rural area and the safeguarding of rural areas. In a municipality with 6 500 inhabitants, with 75 small and medium-sized enterprises with up to 200 employees, the Post Office was closed – in the middle of the town center. The town center dies there, too. There's a replacement post now. – Reasons Please contact the operator of this post office! This certainly does not make it any more, since a person cannot do what three qualified persons previously did. That is why these petitions, these citizens' initiatives, are so important. The initiators make this useless. They really have in mind the concerns of citizens and are much more supportive, as are the other citizens initiatives that have been discussed today. I can also recall the initiative “fairfood.at” by the initiator Fritz Jeitler, which has already been supported with 14 000 signatures; the entries are still running. It clearly shows how pointless it is to drive food around the world, while regional production destroys the farms. These are the fatal effects, not only with regard to food, but also with regard to heating. We have already discussed the agricultural area available in Austria today. We have 47 percent forestry area. Although the new Government Convention mentions an energy concept, one looks at the building markets, warehouses, large heating stations, it is noted that pellets and firewood come from the east, from Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and we are therefore discussing the pollution of traffic and climate change. Through the citizens' initiatives, these topics are properly prepared and prepared. I also agree with Mr Pirklhuber's request that the Rules of Procedure should be improved in this direction so that the initiatives are better processed and implemented and can be incorporated into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23392	Mrs Bayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23413	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also address the Citizens' Initiative on Gynaecology and Obstetrics. We have received very broad opinions on this, not only from the Ministry of Health, but also from the non-competent Ministry of Social Affairs, from the state of Lower Austria, from the Federal Association, from the Chamber of Physicians, from the Austrian Society for Gynaecology and Obstetrics, and from the Austrian midwives' body, and all of them tell us unisono, which has already been mentioned, namely, that it is only useful from a statistical number of 365 births per year to have its own station; both economically meaningful and medically safe, so that there is practically enough training for the staff and sufficient births are carried out in order to remain medically in practice. I think we have not made it very easy, and if really seven different jobs with very different interests on this subject say the same thing, then I think we can really trust it. But I would like to take this opportunity to point out something: We have no tradition in Austria at all with multi-party groups or with multi-party groups or all-party groups in our Parliament, but we have one for about twenty years, and this is reflected in the International Conference on Population and Development of Cairo, which took place in 1994. This multi-party group deals with sexual and reproductive health and related rights. I would like to invite all those who are interested in inviting to this group, since I believe there is a lot to do in the field of obstetrics, gynecology and sexuality. For example, we know that in Austria about 33 percent of all births are carried out an imperial section. WHO believes that this is normally required medically in 15 percent of cases. In Austria, it is likely that the mothers are less affected by risk births due to a better health of their mothers, and the average could be even lower for us. For this and also for questions such as: What can midwives?, If it also needs a specialist at every birth, not often just a midwive in the hospital?, it is exciting to entertain. Of course, we also have the international focus in mind by talking, for example, about maternal mortality worldwide and about what Austria could do about it. If you are interested, I would like to invite you to join this multi-party group. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23450	Mrs Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also referring to the 103 citizens' initiative, which concerns basic care through the birth aid station in each hospital. To this end, I would like to say: I understand it as a woman and as a mother that this citizens' initiative is a very big concern for the population, especially since I have also brought my two children to Waidhofen and there it is best I'm sure I'll take care of it. The birth is simply a particularly sensitive, valuable and unique event, and for this it is important to provide well-achievable and high-quality care. We didn't make it easy. As has already been said, we have received seven opinions, and these seven opinions are actually quite the same: it is simply important to have a sufficient number of cases to ensure that quality is guaranteed, because safety and quality are of particular importance to both women and mothers. However, I believe that for this sensitive and risky area, the public hand has great responsibility to provide a comprehensively modern, current structure. The Ministry of Health also writes to us that it is important that the structural plan also provides for this and that of course one can also make amendments. That's an important point. That is why I also see the very strongly supported citizens' initiative as a need to work to develop the whole system and also to create new opportunities that create a suitable supply structure especially for rural births, so that rural areas are equally well covered by health policy. That's a very big concern to me. However, I would like to comment very briefly on the Citizens' Initiative on Psychotherapy on sick leave, because the illness caused by mental illness has tripled over the last twenty years, and that is why it is a really important issue. In 1995, 11 percent retired due to mental illness, with 35 percent in 2013. We are assigning this issue to the Health Committee, because I think it is an important matter for us and of course it is a matter of good treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23517	I call Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This time the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has a total of eight petitions and a citizens' initiative. Two petitions are allocated to the Technical Committee, but the Committee has also dealt with and dealt with a total of 33 petitions and citizens' initiatives. A very important citizens' initiative, which was also discussed in the Committee, is that on the protection of the European steel industry and industrial jobs. This citizens' initiative, which has now been supported by 26 000 people, calls for China not to have market economic status at the WTO, because if China were to have this market economy status, all customs regulations would be removed from the EU. Why this is so important shows a brief look at the naked numbers: A tonne of steel produced in Europe costs 350 €. In contrast, a tonne of steel produced in China and transport to Europe cost only € 290. China has enormous overcapacity in the steel industry, and since domestic demand is falling steadily in China, the Chinese producers were dumping the world market with steel. And this highly subsidized steel from China, under devastating working conditions, as we did in the 20th century. ==References====External links== has created, and is produced under the destruction of the environment, undermines all market-economy standards in Europe. In Europe, 330 000 jobs are directly dependent on the steel industry, and indirectly, it is 1.4 million jobs that depend on a competitive steel industry, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the numbers in Austria, you can see that they are also very high: In Austria, 25 000 people are directly dependent on the steel industry, and 110 000 indirectly dependent jobs are affected – and that is only the jobs. If the family members concerned were to be included, a number of about 400 000 people in Austria would be affected if we did not act quickly. Austria must therefore try to intensify the fight against these dumped imports in the European Union. It needs shorter procedures and anti-dumping duties at a really dissuasive level. At present, Chinese steel is only used with 15 to 30 percent inches, while the US demands a tariff surcharge of approximately 300 percent for Chinese steel. There is a real need for action if we want steel production and the steel industry to survive in Europe and also in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23587	Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23608	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I refer to the joint report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, specifically on the petition No. 63, with regard to public transport at affordable prices for beneficiaries of increased family aid. As often as we have, we have received various opinions on this, and the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Finance point out essentially that the country and the transport associations are responsible for setting up tariffs, or that the Ministry of Transport should conclude appropriate financing agreements with the transport associations, just as the Ministry of Family Affairs has done in the area of the Top Youth Ticket, which is financed by the Family Charge Fund. The Ministry of Social Affairs, which is responsible for this, refers to the existing possibilities of travel price reductions for those involved in increased family support and indicates that further reductions are currently not considered. In the petition No. 91 in turn, it is about the receipt of the Bruck financial office at Leitha. Supporters point out that the receipt of the Bruck Financial Office at Leitha is of great importance. Now we've heard that there's been petition law for 70 years and that in its main lines there are on the middle of the 19th century. ==References== It is a very important right because it gives citizens the opportunity to address their concerns to the National Council. Usually, there is also a concrete occasion for someone to file a petition. In this case, in petition No. 91, it seems, however, that it was only this petition that created an occasion, because the absence of the Bruck financial office at Leitha was never an issue. Only by this petition has the impression been given that the site is at risk, but what it actually is it wasn't and it's not. It seems that this problem was also a mere staging. However, I do not believe that the right of petition should be used in this way, because it is, in any case, too often outraged, supposed facts are being spread, commented, it is excited, and finally it turns out: A lot of noise for nothing! Perhaps better to close with William Shakespeare: “More content, less art!”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23650	I call Mr Hechtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23672	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Now I also have my opinion on the collective report: As usual, this report provides a summary of the citizens' initiatives and petitions dealt with in the Committee. These citizens' initiatives and petitions have dealt with many topics, such as health, care, safety, transport, promotion of e-mobility, and more staff for finance, police and cetera. These concerns were always of personal, but also very strong, collective interest. The Committee also discussed two citizens' initiatives dealing with housing. I would like to take a very brief look at the Citizens' Initiative 105, which calls for the removal of broker commissions, or the Citizens' Initiative 97, which calls for sustainable housing. We see a right step in the government's work programme, because the work programme of the Federal Government 2017/18 deals with living in its own chapter – with the housing package. This corresponds exactly to what is required here: that high quality living also becomes manageable. We see in this respect that these citizens' initiatives have been dealt with and that this is also going in the right direction. One important point I noticed is that the topic of living has not only been taken up, but has been specifically addressed and has also been defined on time with a focus. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For us, living, living, living, a basic need, and it must not be a luxury. I see important steps in this government programme. I would like this government programme to be implemented in the Federal Government just as quickly as in the parliamentary process. I think this is going in the right direction, and I would like to conclude with the sentence: Together we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23709	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to say something about the comments made by Mrs Steger, who unfortunately is no longer in the Chamber. At the beginning of this debate, she gave an emotional speech on time soldiers to an institution under a Minister of Defence It has been introduced under Minister for Freshenschlager. We know today that this is not a system, as we wish for employees, employees and employees, because the persons have only twelve months' salaries and their retirement periods have not been calculated accordingly. It would be very important for us to do something here together, that we shed light on everything together. That is why, Mrs Steger, it would also be important to talk about what the Freedom Party still welcomed in 2003, namely the extension of the pension calculation to 30 months. This was praised by the AUF as a very special achievement, so we should also see this positively. We could now take the next step. We're glad we got this petition. Public Prosecutor Herbs has supported this petition. The Federal Chancellor supported the petition, only pointed out that it was necessary to make a regulation in the ASVG. The Minister of Defence has supported her. Now it only depends more on the Minister of Social Affairs. We very much ask him to support these persons, namely the soldiers of the time – some in the military even call military slaves because they do not have a corresponding right to serve. That is what I wish for, and I believe that we will continue to maintain a great many here in this House, our pressure on the Minister of Social Affairs – for the voluntarily extended basic defences and for the time soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23770	I call Mr Hell. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23791	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! More and more citizens are addressing issues relating to public transport or mobility through citizens' initiatives or petitions to the Austrian Parliament. This begins with improved and financially viable access to public mobility, just as we find it in the request of the petition 63, but goes beyond that when it comes to the maintenance and extension of railway lines and the reconstruction of railway stations, stops or train stops. However, it is not only seem-related concerns that are brought in, but of course they also concern the road. In the petition 78 – it has already been pointed out today – a revision of the road traffic regulations with regard to the promotion of electric cars and car sharing is required. The ecological advantages of e-vehicles are undisputed and well-known, but they also require a comprehensive range of infrastructure, which is already mentioned in the petition. This petition will be assigned to the Transport Committee for further consideration and consultation, as measures still to be discussed in experts, as BMVIT has stated in its opinion, will also be required. Ladies and gentlemen! A petition was also launched during the last Committee meeting, which deals with the introduction of a discriminatory car toll in Germany – a concern that we have already discussed and discussed in a very detailed manner this morning in the current European hour. We will support all these measures, particularly those relating to the absence of any disadvantage for Austrian drivers. I welcome this request: For a European transport policy can only work if there is equal treatment for all road users and no preference for individual. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23827	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Smoking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23849	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is actually an underestimated committee in this House. I really feel it is a privilege to sit in such a committee, because it is easy to see what moods exist in the population. For me, it's a kind of mood seismograph that shows where the shoe is pressing, where the challenges lie. I would now like to focus briefly on three petitions. My previous speaker mentioned it: When it comes to the German car toll, I would like to focus once again on the fact that this is really a topic especially in the border regions, such as in my hometown of Kufstein. We've had a vignette special situation, which is now out of place. I believe that there is a lot to be done in the transport sector, so I am glad that this issue will also be discussed in the Transport Committee. To the petition concerning car sharing and electric cars: We decided a few weeks ago in Parliament to promote electric cars, plug-in hybrid cars et cetera, and I believe it is also recognised that the Federal Government is on the right track in this area. In general, and as I would like to join my colleagues in Pirklhuber, the question arises: How can we make the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives even more attractive? – An interesting proposal, which has already been discussed in the Committee on Inquiry on Direct Democracy, would have been to give the initiator the opportunity to give the right to briefly explain the petition or citizens' initiative in the Committee. I believe that if we could listen to this, then it would not be that close together between the individual petitions and citizens' initiatives, then there would be more transparency and more lively discussion in the committee, and I would like that. In this sense: thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23886	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23907	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to refer to the petition “Public transport at affordable costs for those involved in increased family aid”. In this petition, the contributors make it clear that the use of public transport for people with disabilities is often not manageable despite the reductions on the part of the transport associations and also on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This applies in particular to people working in employment treatment facilities and receiving only pocket money there, which is between 10 € and 70 €, so these people are particularly affected. The People's Procuratorate also pointed out in its last report that there should be better access to mobility for these people. The introductions' proposal was therefore that a ticket be created, a mobility support similar to the Top Youth Ticket, which was already created in 2013, an age-independent offer for people with disabilities who receive increased family support. This petition was dealt with twice in the Committee on Petitions. There were four opinions from Ministries, BMFJ, BMASK, BMF and BMVIT. All opinions indicate that it is actually a matter between the transport associations and the countries, and for this reason we have now taken note of this petition and not assigned it to a committee, because it cannot be assigned directly to a committee because there is no technical committee for it. But I can promise the bringer – these were young students from a school for social professions – that I will continue to work on this issue. I will try to talk where they belong, because I am convinced that this measure is a whole, very important measure because people with disabilities must also have access to mobility. I will also work for this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23950	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e23971	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We had to deal with a very important issue in the Committee on Petitions for the Austrian equestrian industry, which is about so-called pension horses, horse setting. Due to a strict jurisdiction of the administrative court, namely to lift up agricultural by-products and to qualify as a business establishment, 5 000 horse-riding farms in Austria are under massive threat in their structure and in their holdings. Ladies and gentlemen! The horse economy now brings value added from 2.1 to 2.5 billion € in Austria. These are 25 000 to 30 000 employees in Austria through this kind of economic form with a non-agricultural sector. If someone has the hay, if someone has the oats themselves, if someone has the hectares for it and one believes that they have to convert it into a commercial business, then, I say honestly, this is the idea of those who believe that they can fill the banknotes in heaven and empty them on earth. We must not allow this to happen here in this Parliament, and we will also have to take a legal measure if there is no agreement with the Chamber of Commerce in the next few days. That's what I'm saying quite openly. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Let us make a joint motion for a resolution, Mr President. I'll be right there!]] I therefore say that I am really in favour of offering these farms a key in the future, namely, keeping a maximum of two horses per hectare of agricultural land. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Super! Absolutely good idea!]] This should also be taken into account by those who are constantly considering this banknote presentation, i.e. trade reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24023	Mr Preiner came to speak from the Burgenland. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24061	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the petition number 91: ‘Receipt of the Financial Office at the Bruck site at Leitha’. I brought this petition myself. The petition is a best-practice example of the fact that the concerns and needs of the people who are being taken seriously in Austria, because there were very likely initiatives in the direction of closing the Bruck financial office at Leitha, in conjunction with Eisenstadt and Oberwart. I also expressly thank the people in the region, the communities, the mayors for supporting this petition. In the final effect, it now looks like the location in Bruck at Leitha is preserved. A closure would also have been fatal in that 42 staff mainly from the Bruck region at Leitha, Neusiedl at the lake, had to leave their workplace. Secondly, I believe it is important and essential that there be public services and services in rural areas. Above all, this Bruck financial office at Leitha is also a best-practice example for cross-border cooperation and cooperation, in this case between Lower Austria and Burgenland. I should also like to mention that the new work programme of the Federal Government does not in vain include the preparation of a master plan for rural areas. This calls for Minister Rupprechter to draw up a plan with the rural regions by October of this year, so that this plan can be decided in a sustainable way in favour of the rural regions. Public institutions are in place to secure jobs in rural regions in order to be able to leave value added in rural regions as well. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We Burgenländer are increasingly working according to the motto: Ensuring rural regions by promoting cooperation and cooperation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24098	I call Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24119	Mr President. High house! We support the efforts of our chairman Michael Bernhard to bring a little more speed into the treatment of petitions, because in fact, the length of stay of some petitions in the parliamentary procedure is a little too long. It is gratifying that we sometimes have petitions, which we can process very quickly and also implement parliamentaryly with appropriate legislative proposals. One of these petitions concerns the issue of ‘Inclusion and promotion of electric cars and car sharing into road traffic regulations’. ==References====External links== April 2016, and in this is a sentence I would like to read to you: “E-mobility is a technology of the future for our children and children. In order to make e-mobility attractive to users today, the policy is called upon to allow the framework conditions for it.” – How true, you can join it fully! Thank God we have already brought in a five-point package of actions at the last Transport Committee meeting to promote electromobility, with massive support for electromobility, within a framework of € 72 million, which will be made available for this purpose. The points are: new support action for e-cars for private and continuation for businesses; a broader support for e-two-wheels and e-mobility projects, a consistent expansion and expansion – especially for us very important – of the e-loading infrastructure and the setting up of important regulatory frameworks, i.e. the new labelling, so that electric vehicles can also be identified as such at the label, and as the fifth point continuous research, development and demonstration – all in all an important step in the further development of e-mobility. So everything is practically the best of the protagonists of this petition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24165	Thank you, Norbert Sieberaus Vorarlberg. Mr Wenninger from Vienna has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24202	Mr Third President of the National Council! I do not attach any particular importance to the state from which I come, because we are a federal parliament, but I am from Lower Austria. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I have chosen the petition 78 from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives' Report, which is about promoting e-mobility, for two reasons: firstly, because it has confirmed somewhere in the discussion and reporting of the last few days that the Federal Government and therefore also the Austrian Parliament would be unsatisfied and nothing would have happened in recent years. This petition, however, shows exactly the opposite, and my previous speaker has also mentioned it. We have decided on an e-mobility concept, already with 1. In March, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of The aim is to promote e-cars for private, for businesses, for the conversion of public bus lines to e-mobility, but also to promote the development and development of charging infrastructure et cetera; the new features will allow municipalities, cities and countries to offer free parking, for example. These are all concerns that are required in this petition, which have already been implemented and with 1. In March, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the But there is also a second reason, and then I turn to the Greens: I have been hearing from the weekend that the updated work programme of the Federal Government does not deal with climate policy. Today, Mr Steinhauser has explicitly declared that this is not at all the case in this work programme. At least it could be expected that the Preamble will be read specifically addressing ‘energy, climate and environmental issues’. Below, a whole chapter of the climate strategy is devoted. Especially addressed to the Green Members: In Chapter 3, “Energy and Sustainability”, it is very concrete Measures to implement the climate objectives of the Paris World Climate Agreement include an Austrian climate and energy strategy, an eco-stromnovel; all specifically formulated politically and with a deadline by the middle of the year. I am trying to practice the criticism intensively, but not to deny facts and to spread sand to the people and claim that the Austrian Federal Government is not devoting itself to the implementation of the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24257	Thank you, Mr Wenninger from Lower Austria. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1463 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 63, 72, 74, 78, 85, 87, 89 and 91 and the Citizens' Initiative No. To note 103. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steger, colleagues and colleagues on the allocation of contribution months for ‘voluntarily extended GWD’ and former ‘time soldiers’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. [[19:51:15]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2016/16 (III-312/1385, D.B.) 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2016/5 (III-254/1386, D.B.) 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2015/13 (III-203/1387, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24340	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24367	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European First of all, thank you for having implemented one of our proposals. It is my concern, which I have already expressed from the outset to your predecessor and which, in the meantime, as I have been able to see, has also become the wish of all the members of the Court of Auditors, namely that these large-scale Court of Auditors reports should be taken up. For example, this report contains eight reports relating to four or five different ministries. [[keeping an audit report up to date]] You know, until these reports land with us until all the partial reports have been dealt with until we all finish ministers, they often expire over a year. Therefore, we are glad that individual reports will come in the future. This does not mean that fewer reports are coming into the house, but we will be able to take the reports in plenary regularly and probably not have such a wealth as we have to discuss today. As has been said, there are several such reports on the agenda. Secondly, We have already invited the Constitutional Jurisdictions of the Federal Chancellor Dr. Hesse to discuss and look at the proposals you have made, the proposals made by your predecessor, the proposals made by our political groups, where there may actually be constitutional concerns regarding implementation. This is what we want to do, that we can make a very concrete move forward and take a further step. But now to the individual reports: On one hand, I will perhaps speak again later, because it is really a lot of reports, but a subject is a big concern to me: I remember once the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee on what can be done more efficiently, better in the field of school administration, and it was a colleague from the ÖVP who asked the first question: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can you tell us how many teachers the federal government pays but not in any class? – And the answer not only from the President of the Court of Auditors, but from all – it was also invited by experts such as the IHS and from other areas – was: To say that is impossible for us because the structure is so disintegrated. What I was able to experience as a practitioner myself, how often by how many filters the money is sieved until it arrives in the class, lands with the student, also shows a report about the national school councils in Tyrol and Upper Austria, which we are discussing today, where unfortunately one can see black on that what was said there is daily that various teachers are divided into the administrative sector, which have nothing to do with the school sector and are financed from the school budget. This goes down to travel costs, service weights with drivers for national school council presidents, this goes on with representation costs that the federal government has to pay, money spent on beer festivals and other things. I think we should have overcome this time. It is quite, very important that we look at the fact that in the future all the measures we are taking will be in class with all the money we spend on it, then also at school. If that happens, then this report, as I believe, is one that has made a significant contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24418	Mr Singer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24439	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Elmar Mayer has already mentioned this, and my group too sees it very positive that the reports will be sent individually to Parliament in future. I see this as a major improvement, because today we have a wealth of reports that have been bundled. So from my point of view, this is a major improvement. I would like to refer here to a report dealing with the Austrian Centre for the Development of Gifts and Gift Research. This centre was founded in 1999 by then President Gerhard Schäffer in Salzburg, is run as an association and has now become a very, very important institution for the promotion of talent. What were the points of criticism of the Court of Auditors during this examination? – The lack of strategy for gift promotion in general was criticized, that the centre was at the same time promoters and promoters, that there was a lack of target of the federal government and that measures were not evaluated accordingly. I think these are points whose solution and then implementation are probably undisputed. I see critically the Court of Auditors' proposal to consider whether most of the tasks of the Centre should not be carried out by the Salzburg University of Education. Why do I see this critically? – Because the Centre is not only intended to serve basic and secondary level I, but also all educational groups, i.e. universities. However, regardless of the Court of Auditors' criticism, I would like to express my special thanks for the work of the Austrian Centre for Gift Funding and Gift Research. Its achievements are undisputed and internationally recognized. The centre for gift promotion and gift research was more or less the first institution to adopt this issue, namely the promotion of talent, and it is certainly the main responsibility of the promotion of talent in Austria. From my point of view, however, it still needs a tremendous boost, so that the gift promotion will be given the importance it will need in the future. No one disputes the need to promote better talent, and yet our school system does not work evenly for the elimination of weaknesses. I am sure that both are possible to weaken weaknesses and strengthen strengths. One does not rule out the other, both of which I believe are feasible and necessary. Experts assume that 15 to 20 percent of Austrian students have the potential for excellence. Therefore, the goal of our school system must be to discover talents and talents as early as possible in every young person, thus opening up the opportunity to promote them in a wide variety of school but also non-school ways. Let us therefore create a learning environment that motivates young people to follow their desires and interests! In a world of digitization, we all need – and I emphasize: all – gifts of people more than ever. Let us therefore support all wise minds very much! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24493	Mr Mag. Hauser is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24515	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to start by thanking the President of the Court of Auditors for receiving individual reports which we can also discuss more closely in the National Council. I myself would also like to speak about the promotion of talent. I can cut down a few things and don't have to go into history. The fact is that the Court of Auditors has shown that in Austria, on the one hand, there is a lack of financial resources for the promotion of talent, for the promotion of gifted children, that the objectives for the Austrian Centre for the Promotion of Gifts were also inadequate, and that there is a strategy for the promotion of gift. Under the rule, therefore, the promotion of talent in Austria is really in the arrogance. This is very unfortunate, and I would like to add some facts in this respect that go beyond the facts already mentioned by Mr Singer. It's really terrifying: We know that on the one hand, the results of our children – even during the last PISA test – have become massively worse and on the other hand – and that is actually the amazing – the group of top students who perform great achievements has become smaller. That is, we are putting more and more money into the school system, from the federal government alone, € 8.6 billion, but the number of poor students, the risk student, is rising, far more than a third of the students cannot read, write, do not count, this is a real disaster – and on the other hand, the number of those students who are top students is falling. There's a stop. So you can quantify this a little: Within the last ten years, from 2006 to 2015, the number of top students in the range of 15 to 16-year-olds in Austria has broken in from 18 000 students to just over 12 500, i.e. from 20 to 15 percent on average. Less than 5 percent of top school students in recent years – this is really a disaster for education policy! How does it look around Austria? – In Slovenia, the share of top school students is 18 percent, in Germany 19 percent and in Switzerland 22 percent – in relation to the modest 15 percent with us. Germany has recognised the need to support top school students, and Germany will invest €125 million in the top school in the next few years. That's the right approach! I am also glad that in the course of the debate, the Managing Director of the Austrian Centre for Gift Funding and Gift Research, Dr Claudia Resch, has mentioned some proposals to improve this situation, to improve the situation of talented students. I would like to repeat it because I consider it very useful. So, to quote her shortly, Mrs. Dr. Claudia Resch meant: It must be used in the training of all teachers, including in the direction of gift promotion. Training for teachers for the promotion of talent needs to be made possible, which is currently available for far too few hours. There is a need for comprehensive training, starting in kindergartens. It needs, above all, and that seems very important to me in every educational institution, contact for gift promotion. In the future, when we are in In the direction of autonomy, of course, the elements of gift promotion are also taken into account in the development of schools. So this package needs to be implemented. Gift promotion needs to be greatly higher, otherwise the potential that is so important to all of us and is praised in all speeches, namely the potential of our youth, on the track – and that must not be. We are going to put pressure on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24573	The next speaker is Mr Walser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24594	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Yes, Mr Hauser, we agree with the analysis of the problems. The data you've mentioned are all right. We have a huge problem. We urgently need reforms. I can refer you to your Vorarlberg group, which is in the conclusion exactly where we are Greens: We need a basic reform, especially secondary school I, because it has a retroactive effect on folk school, facilitates teaching in folk school, because it strengthens secondary school I, because it gives children more confidence. All of this is the aspect of the Vorarlberg model region, which has been developed and which is supported by all the country parties. We hope that will be implemented. Madam President, there is also a thank you from my side! The Court of Auditors reports – and now I have to speak in the conjunctive II – in the conjunctively irregular, the conjunctive of inalienableness – would help us to improve the school system if we were going to implement the proposals. There are a number of very important proposals that you have made, which we all would support. Let's get to the detail! For example, I would like to address the administration a little bit. There you have examined the school administration in Upper Austria and in Tyrol, the state school councils, the state personnel administration, and the criticism that comes here is already very, very massive, because: What is very expensive in Upper Austria, for example, is much cheaper in Tyrol. Let's take a few examples: The administrative burden for the German teachers is 20 percent higher in Upper Austria than in Tyrol. They are the same teachers, they are the same administration, they are the same rules. How can such a thing be?, you ask yourself. Then the remuneration process, that's another special case, a very special case. You don't think that's true. For the remuneration process, Oberösterreich charges the federal government per teacher over 117 €. The Bundesrechenzentrum makes her exactly the same job by €44. How to explain such a thing? How can we be responsible for continuing this systematic waste of money? – It is this untold and falsely understood federalism! [[Congratulations with the Greens and the Deputies Holzinger-Vogtenhuber and Gamon.]] As a Vorarlberger, I will be the last to question federalism in principle – but please do with sense and mind! And where we can make uniform regulations, there we must also implement them. A second point, which is also important to me: The countries – and you have mentioned this in detail here – set teachers beyond the service plan and only take part of the costs. Over €20 000 per teacher must pay the federal government year after year for teachers who cannot be hired under the law. And this, of course, costs massive money. This alone costs € 30 million in the year. And, and, and – I could continue the list now. There is a real need for massive action. Similar facts have been gathered by the Court of Auditors as to what the new teacher's right to serve as a teacher. And I'm just saying by the way: All our fears, all our criticisms expressed in the decision-making process, are confirmed here. It has been a colossal misevaluation! And you counted it up to 2060: This misestimation costs € 1 billion – money, please, that goes off to schools, money that is deprived of the children in school. And the whole thing is still irresponsible, that is simply irresponsible! Ladies and gentlemen! We are quite clear for a transfer of remuneration to the Bundesrechenzentrum. This can be better, it's more effective, it's uniform. Please, let's finish this!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24655	Mr Gamon. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24676	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I would also like to talk about teacher service law and present the history of reform. It was once a teacher service reform in Austria. It was based on a relatively good and important idea, namely to make the teaching profession more attractive for young people, to flatten the wage curve and to introduce a higher teaching obligation. Then came the teacher union and destroyed this dream. It built up long transitional periods and caused a delayed implementation of the whole. It would take 47 years for the reform to arrive in all school classes. No money was saved, it even cost more. The administrative burden grew, and even more staff were needed. – End of history. This is the classic Austrian nightmare of reform, which we see again and again. Mr Walser has already carried it out: All that was known before the reform has occurred. And the Court of Auditors' report shows here, as in hardly any other area, the blossoms of this kind of banknote federalism, and why we have a problem with expenditure and not revenue. This is also seen in the field of education. It is about spending the money on all the wrong corners and ends, where it does not come to the students. An example – this may add up – is this story with the permanent multiservices, which, I believe, is something that hardly anyone can imagine: In the old service law, the educators have had a weekly teaching obligation between 17.14 and 26.67 hours, because the subjects are worth a lot. That is, if you convert it, no teacher can be used up to 100 percent because the system is so complex. And that's why overtime is charged automatically. And these permanent multi-services, i.e. these fixed overtimes have then accounted for 12 percent of the entire class, and half of them are due only to the complex bill. The Court of Auditors has complained that these permanent multi-services could have been reduced by half without this transitional period. There would have been a huge chance of being one of the worst absurdities in teacher service law. and it has not been used. For us, this is a good reason to ask, in principle, the question of why it needs a teacher's right at all, and whether one cannot also regulate it in a framework collective agreement, so that teachers can no longer be treated differently from other workers, and so that one can finally take a different look – also in the sense of school autonomy, as a school, as an employer – and perhaps also consider psychologists, social workers and administrative staff. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that this is an important idea that should be remembered, and we hope that it will not take decades again now until we have to talk about reforming teacher service rights again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24739	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24804	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24825	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am devoting my remarks to two areas, two reports, one to Teacher Service Law and one to the division of competence between the federal government and countries at national school councils. A lot has already been said about teacher service law here. I would like to make a few points because it seems very important to me and because there is still a lot to do in this area. In 2013, the teacher's law was passed. Federal and regional teachers are included. However, it is only mandatory from the school year 2018/2019. Until then, there is also the old right to serve; and active teachers are not at all affected by this scheme. The criticism of the Court of Auditors has not been exactly positive here. The state does not have a billion savings potential, i.e. billion-height savings. We have heard it, 1.07 billion € will not be saved there. By 2059/2060, the Court of Auditors' report therefore provides savings of €1.12 billion, and € 1.07 billion will not be raised. This savings potential should already be increased, because we need the money in the field of education. Our education sector is very expensive, unfortunately inefficient, which also demonstrates various studies. And that's a problem that you can't avoid and that can be seen here too. The President of the Court of Auditors also criticised the lack of commitment to the reform. Unfortunately, in many areas this is so that too little involvement is being done, too late is being done. In today's declaration of government, we have also been called dates, the But long-term; and whether the short-term until mid-year will reach, we will still see. In the school year 2015/2016, only 48 out of 1 477 new Federal doctrines voted for the reformed service law, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors also notes this in its report, and it must be borne in mind and discussed. I would also like to address the Councils of State Schools briefly, as mentioned earlier, and since the division of competence between the Federal Government and countries at the Councils of State Schools. I should like to quote briefly from the report, namely, Upper Austria and Tyrol, namely: “The design of the government structure of the national school councils” during the examination period was “unique in the Federal administrative system.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that is what the Court of Auditors has stated. In view of the fact that the Vice-President has only a right of access to the file and consultation, the following questions are asked: What do the Vice-Presidents need for? – So there is a lot of need for reform, there is a lot to be done. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] Thank you. I could list a number of further criticisms here, but I think that the members of the Court of Auditors are sufficiently informed in this regard and the main key points are also listed and broken down in the debates. The proportion in the school administration, ladies and gentlemen, is a relic that must be abolished as quickly as possible. I think we should all work on that. There is also a lot of agreement here, but unfortunately on the other hand also not so much agreement. I still hope that we will come to a good solution, also and, of course, especially in the sense of the students. Finally, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, I would also like to thank you and your staff for these comprehensive reports. I also, of course, like my previous speakers, welcome the fact that we will receive individual reports in the future, because, for us, I think, it is also easier, as far as processing is concerned. I am looking forward to further good cooperation, but I am going to talk about these issues several times today, because we still have to deal with the Court of Auditors reports of last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24895	Next, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24917	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am referring to the report which has dealt with the comparison of service law old and new in relation to federal teachers. The purpose of the test was to present and evaluate the old and new service law, with a focus on the obligation of the Federal Teachers, on the costs incurred by the passing on of old service rights, as well as on the continuing multi-services between 2011/2012 and 2014/2015. What is the situation in the future from the Court of Auditors' point of view? – Since the old and the new service rights are adjacent to each other until the school year 2060/2061 This will, of course, entail an increased administrative burden. There were two specific criticisms for the Court of Auditors. This was on one side: Newly entering teachers still have the old service right to choose from until the school year 2018/2019. In the school year 2015/2016, only 48 out of 1 447 German teachers have chosen the reformed service law, which is about 3 percent. This means that as long as the old and new service rights run parallel, the state does not allow for savings at billions. The second central criticism concerns increasing the teaching obligation at international level. There is a delay, as this will only be achieved by the school year 2060/2061. What recommendations have now been made for the Court of Auditors? – First, the time span to choose between old and new service rights by 2018/2019 is too long and should definitely be shortened, and second, legal provisions should be made to increase teaching obligations for old service law. Finally, I would like to stress that it is already an essential factor for me that teachers will be relieved of administrative activities in the future, so that they can work educationally and also care for the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24962	Mr Mag. Hanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e24983	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I also refer to the teacher service law for the Federal Teachers, which was decided in 2013 and evaluated by the Court of Auditors in 2015. In the above criticism it is important for me to see the essential lines that this new right of service has brought. This new right of service has brought about a uniform framework for federal and national teachers, and this right of service has brought a flattening of pay curves. I come from the field of young people's ÖVP, I can remember that these points have been demanded ten or 20 years ago. It has succeeded in allowing young families, young people, higher entry salaries, precisely in a period when the financial resources are simply needed. I see that as a success. Thirdly, it has also succeeded in creating a uniform framework and increasing the teaching obligation in the course of the teaching obligation. When the teaching obligation is discussed, one aspect is very important to me – I am constantly told by the teachers in my constituency: That is where we need objective discussions. There are OECD studies that prove that Austrian teachers work less than in other European countries in international comparison. If you look at these studies a little more closely, you can find that in some countries the pure time of education is measured and in other countries times for preparation and follow-up are calculated. So if we compare systems, then we should really do this exactly and differentiated, because it is always a bit of appreciation. I would like to take the opportunity – if I talk about education – to express appreciation. I know in my constituency quite a lot of schools, new secondary schools, gymnasiums, specialized schools, polytechnic schools and higher schools. I experience a lot of people who work very, very busy in their profession, do excellent work and really do a lot of work. Finally, I would like to call the HTL Waidhofen on the Ybbs as a lighthouse, since last weekend there was a day of the open door. I went in, saw a great football project that I've known for a long time – they're good on the road – I've had the opportunity for the first time to see a virtual reality data goggle and have talked to young graduates who are just ahead of business start-up. So, in our education system, a lot of positive things are being done, which I wanted to express. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25020	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25041	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed the subject: For the many different reports, there is not only the problem that they come to the plenary very late, but also that they deal with completely different materials. So much has been said about pedagogy and the schools. However, I would like to come to the issue of finance, because there is also a report from the control bank. Before that, however, I may still be dealing with a subject relating to finance and also to schools: the topic of new secondary school. It's not quite clear to me. Teacher staff costs in the New Secondary School per student amount to € 7 500, € 6 700 in the primary school and € 4 800 in the secondary level in the gymnasium. Despite pumping so much money into this system, the PISA studies show us that the result is getting worse and worse. Perhaps one of the educators or educators can explain to me why you simply hold on to this system of the New Middle School. Now to the control bank: I have a 2013 newspaper report here, dated 31. January 2013, that is to say, on the day exactly four years ago – this fits well with the announcement policy that we have heard a lot about today, so that what is now going to and will be implemented – at that time the control bank has been audited, i.e. the liabilities that the Federation of Export Finances assumes: ‘The State is moving billions of risks into the future’. There is now, four years later, a follow-up report, and the follow-up report shows us that all full-fledged promises of the Ministry of Finance have not been met. At that time we had a volume of €13.5 billion in liabilities, which were largely financed by Swiss-Franken-Kreits and had a corresponding risk. The Ministry of Finance has then given the Court of Auditors the prospect that it will work to reduce this €13 billion package to €10 billion. – The opposite was the case: Even Mr. Finanzminister Schelling, who at the time when he came to the government, still criticised the small house builders with their Franken credit cards, continued to blow these francs and increased this amount to € 18.5 billion. In the period 2014/2015 alone, i.e. within half a year, the risk has increased to € 5.8 billion, i.e. € 2.4 billion. I wonder what the This is why the Court of Auditors' recommendations are completely opposed to them and the risks are still being purchased. The problem that I see on this matter is, if losses are to occur now, and losses have arisen – at that time it has counted “the press”, in 2013 losses of €1.9 billion have been incurred – then these losses will be postponed in the form of a so-called transfer to the future. That is, one simply hopes that the courses will develop accordingly. It's similar to the casino: You continue to play and hope that you will win sometime and then cover these losses. This is, of course, just a matter of budget-saving considerations, because you would otherwise have to cover these losses on a budget basis. If I look at this today at the €18.5 billion and if I use the same method of calculation – it is over €2.4 billion that has obviously already been incurred in losses – then the question really arises what is with Mr Finanzminister's announcement policy. He has been telling us here for years, that we do not have a revenue problem, but rather an expenditure problem, and he himself is picking up and screwing up the expenditure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25086	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25108	Mr President. Madam President. High house! The Court of Auditors took note of the introduction of the new teacher's law and found some points to be critical. However, it should not be ignored that the introduction of the new teacher service law was in itself a monumental event – the word Teacher union. I don't think that's what we need to say about the new right to serve. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's it!]] To the new service right: The reason for this was that the Austrian teachers had an under-average teaching obligation in international comparison, i.e. the teachers taught too few hours. As a teacher, I can't leave that up because the critics never mention that more work is actually to be done. These are, for example, pre- and post-work, corrective work and many, many administrative services. It is, therefore, an enormous amount of work that should not be included in the table during proper discussion. Of course, it is not all to be considered about the budgetary aspects, but a very important part is that the initial salaries of the teachers, the young teachers, have been raised and the salary curve flattened. This shows great respect and appreciation for the teachers, and especially for the young teachers. I give the Court of Auditors the right if it criticises that the transitional period for the newly introduced teachers is too long for the new right to serve, which might happen earlier, perhaps a shorter period would have been more targeted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The Court of Auditors has found this to be so positive that the new service law novels have managed to achieve a uniform right of service for federal and regional teachers. That's a remarkable performance. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25152	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25174	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer briefly to the Court of Auditors' report on the national school councils and the teacher's staff administration. I might want to start a little different, because I believe that Mr Hanger has already mentioned this. In principle, we already have a very good school system, but I think it is often very negative. We have very dedicated teachers, and I think they keep this school system so attractive, and that's something very important. But it is also true that the educational landscape is changing. We set new priorities as to whether this is the strengthening of elementary education, the improvement of the transition from kindergarten to folk school, the digitization that we are particularly demanding in the future, or the better promotion of talent. – These are noisy projects and reforms, which are very important, but ultimately all the money costs, we must already be aware of that. It is also true that we have a very expensive education system, which is unfortunately inefficient. Unfortunately, these funds are too little for the students. That is exactly where the Court of Auditors is cut, which is what it is right to do. The double-tracks belong to a lower level, more determination in the administration needs to be achieved, and that, I think, is not so easy at all, but it is also a ongoing process. We must already be aware that one step after another has to be taken, and it will also react. Let's look back: In 2014 the district school councils were abolished, and the deputy of the National School Council President in Upper Austria has no longer been re-occupied. Also with the autonomy package, I think, we can achieve success. Yes, it's true, it's still a lot of changed, but I think we're basically on a good path. I would like to make a brief comment on progress in application management: Madam President, this is a very important point, because I believe that we can achieve more self-determination in the individual schools when ordering teachers. I think we also have a certain potential for savings here. In principle, we already see when we see all these things, that we have a lot of potential. I already have one important point in the whole of the reforms addressed by the Court of Auditors: We must never forget that the quality of education must never fall if we make administrative savings. I think that's something very important. Finally, I would like to thank all teachers for their commitment to our students, but also for their cooperation in the reforms and, above all, for their contribution to these reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25211	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25232	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I also refer to the Austrian Centre for Gift Funding and Gift Research, ÖZBF in short. What Is that it? – This is a federal institution for the development of talent and excellence promotion and supports people, institutions and initiatives that promote talent. The Centre represents a holistic and systematic approach to the promotion of talent, an approach that covers all educational places, i.e. kindergarten, school, community, economy, universities. The educational universities play a central role in this, and I would also like to address the special role of the University of Graz, where there has been a professorship for it since 2015. The research results there will be passed on to the educational universities and integrated into the training of educators. How to implement gift promotion as early as possible? – For example, through the BRG pilot project, it stands for “a talent developed region and community”. There the community is addressed as a supporter of educational institutions and as a support place, and we are talking about a potential of 200 000 people throughout Austria. This potential deserves the best possible promotion. However, all pupils deserve the best possible funding, and I think of well-equipped all day schools. I can remember that € 750 million from the bank levy is going directly into the expansion of all day schools. These are investments in fair access to education. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has criticised in this report the lack of strategy in the promotion of talent. Minister of Education Sonja Hammerschmid has made a clear commitment to the promotion of talent and referred to the White Paper on the promotion of talent and excellence. I note that the Ministry of Education is in the process of reorganising the promotion of talent. What is to be improved in concrete terms? – The cooperation of all actors. The ÖZBF will be increasingly project-oriented and funded on the basis of a very clear funding mandate. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25272	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker, spoke on one point. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's agenda shows that the Court of Auditors, I think I was able to convince you, has a very comprehensive work programme, which we are also consistently working on. There are 23 reports from the Court of Auditors on the debate today. This means that there is sufficient expertise on the table – whether in the field of education, universities, research or in the field of public enterprises – which is an expertise available to you here in Parliament, in the High House and also in the entire Federal Government. I would like to start by thanking for the contributions, in particular for the good arrival of individual reports. I also think that this simplifies the timely work here in the Court of Auditors and then in plenary. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] I would now like to take a brief look at the first three Court of Auditors reports to be debated here and discussed jointly. I come to Teacher Service Law, to the report “Federal Teachers: Comparing right of service old/new’. I have already said this in the committee and it is contained in the Court of Auditors' report: We have here very well recognised the basic objective of creating a uniform teacher service right. The Court of Auditors sees this as positive, we see and evaluate it. The intention of increasing the teaching obligation is also positive, which is naturally welcomed by the Court of Auditors. What we have criticized has already been said in the course of the discussion, that has been the slow implementation, that the reform will, as it were, be delayed until 2060, and that potential savings potential has not been exhausted in this way. Of course, we have said that this right of option for newly introduced educators by 2018/2019 is a decision that can only be difficult to understand, especially since, so to speak, the federal government does not give up around one billion euros. Only 3 percent of the new German teachers have chosen the reformed law of service. The second concerns, as it were, the subject of adjusting the teaching obligation for all teachers employed in the school year 2014/2015. One would have had the system-immanent long-term services if one would have wanted to reduce it by almost half and in this way could increase the teaching capacity. In general terms, however, this is also addressed to the relevant ministries and is a criticism that we must make: We believe that the parliamentary decision-makers had only insufficient basis of calculation, and we therefore demand for the future that the necessary comparative calculations be made transparent before the decision-making process is taken. The third concerns the topic of school administration: We compared the national school authorities in Upper Austria and in Tyrol, subjects were national school councils and teacher staff management. They all know that the core problem of the school administration in Austria exists in the multitude of employed authorities and organisational units at the federal, state and district level, and that there are also different enforcement competences, depending on whether they are federal or national teachers, and then, of course, they are about the special construction of the national school councils. Their construction by this mixture of political level and administrative level is complex. As a result of this review of the problems, control deficits, inefficiencies, increased need for coordination with the offices, with the Councils of State Schools, and as a result there are also target conflicts. This, I think, has long been known to you at the political level. However, a simplification of this system and a clear reorganisation of the school administration are still open to date. The school sector suffers from these unclear structures. I'm talking about the National School Councils as special authorities. I am talking about uniform standards for resource allocation and the clear allocation of tasks for the federal school authorities in the countries. However, what we welcome is a uniform billing of the state teachers through the Federal Recherchezentrum and the associated integration into the teaching information systems also in the field of compulsory schools. Now there is school autonomy at the door, and we will of course observe closely how this school autonomy is embedded in this existing system of school administration; and to pay attention to the administrative burden. I am just saying this because the decision-making is still ahead of you here. We have also examined the centre for gift promotion and gift research with a sample – as we have already mentioned – in the course of these contributions to the report. Of course, I would like to stress the following: Like the vast majority, I think, or perhaps all here in the House, of course, the Court of Auditors also considers the promotion of talent to be very important. and does not practice any criticism of content. There was also a wide-ranging debate in the Committee with the Managing Director of the Centre. But what we have criticized – that has already been mentioned – was the lack of a funding concept and a direct control by the funding bodies. Therefore, the effects of the grants should be evaluated. We have also heard that it is planned to implement a strategy for the development of talent promotion. We think this is important. The topic of personnel subsidies is also an issue that needs to be clarified so that an adequate legal basis is available. There were then two follow-up tests, which are also on the agenda. This is about the follow-up “Check of students with migration background – school system responses”. This is an issue of great social relevance, and we have, of course, raised the need for action. 56 percent of recommendations have not been implemented. We had to find that there were still no quantifiable targets for students with migration backgrounds that were defined by the Ministry. Nor has the quality of language promotion courses been evaluated. There was again the subject of fragmentation in the school system in Austria. I agree that this is a nuisance, but it must not be regarded as a general excuse for stakeholders. Then we need to vote and bring them in. The second follow-up examination concerned the model tests for the New Middle School. There is a high degree of implementation. However, these are the key recommendations. The additional costs were due to the additional six hours per NMS class per week. Finally, I would just like to say one point: For the Court of Auditors, it is essential if significant additional resources are used to ensure that appropriate effectiveness occurs. Two additional hours of the week cause additional costs of around €60 million per school year. These are the means which the Court of Auditors considers to be necessary for students to arrive at. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25375	Mr Ottenschlager has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25397	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to speak briefly about the chapter “Students with Migration Background – Answers from the School System”. The President-in-Office has already explained very briefly that there are still many open points. I can only emphasize that it is very important that children with migration backgrounds are also embedded in our school system accordingly. Especially in the agglomerations such as in Vienna, it is a crucial topic for the future of children on the one hand and for our overall social development. As a father of two children who attend a public folk school in Vienna, I can say from my own experience that much is done. It is a very important issue, but the Court of Auditors' recommendations are only partially implemented. It is very important, however, that we continue to work together on this. Children with migration backgrounds also receive the support they need, because the language is, as it were, the key to education, and education is the key to the best possible professional life. All the more important, I believe, are the measures to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25433	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25454	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. In my statement, I refer to a follow-up review by the Court of Auditors on the topic of "Model trials New secondary school". As we already know, the New Secondary School has been transferred to the regular school system and the regular education system. According to the Court of Auditors, 44 percent of the recommendations in this respect have already been fully implemented and others have been implemented. In the New Secondary School there are more students from disadvantaged levels of education than they used to be in primary school. These students should also have more opportunities or the same opportunities as students from the AHS. In my opinion, the first phase of the implementation of the New Secondary School works quite well. We are still in the implementation of the second phase. Ladies and gentlemen, the team coaching works well, in my opinion. I can tell you that in Burgenland, for example, the team coaching is carried out 75 percent of AHS and BMHS teachers. The team teaching hours can be used flexibly. This also strengthens the location-related measures and possibilities in the course of autonomy, and autonomy is also an essential issue in school policy at present. Personally, I do not believe that these team teaching hours should be reduced from six to four, although, as we heard from you earlier, Madam President, there is a savings potential of €60 million. I believe that these team teaching hours in the New Middle School have also been the basis for our having, for example, in Burgenland in the last two years the highest Maturant ratio with more than 50 percent compared to the other federal states. So there should be no savings in this respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In principle, Mrs. Hammerschmid is right if she maintains the concept of the New Middle School. It is clear that no calculation can take place from one year to the other. I thank all the educators very much for their work in the classes, which is not always easy, and wish them all the best for the future in the sense of the students, in the sense of the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25501	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25522	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! This Court of Auditors Report, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, shall be published in the Official to the school authorities in Upper Austria and Tyrol, can be seen as a complete timetable for both the Federal Ministry and for us here in Parliament. Of course, there is nothing new in some Austrian government structure, but in the field of school administration we really have to do with an abstract construction. I will simply describe it with the words of the Court of Auditors report: “The design of the government structure of the National School Councils was unique in the federal administration system.” ‘The design of responsibilities (...) was contrary to efficient administrative action.’ High cost differences in administrative expenses by the Federal Republic of Germany have been identified. ‘In the framework of the annual accounts of the National School Council for Upper Austria, unilateral contract amendments, unwarranted and, in part, unlawful costs were also made to the Federal Government and according to the Court of Auditors’ report, to the effect that the funds were not transparent and negligent. For example, grants to staff members, staffing expenses for service cars and resources for the senior President of Enzenhofer in Upper Austria were charged as the country's service for the federal government. I would like to begin with Mr Elmar Mayer: It is absolutely necessary to have consequences, because resources, staff expenditure for service cars are not educational expenditure, but the expenditure we spend on education must arrive directly in the classes. The representation expenditure to join colleagues in Walser is 3.5 times as high in Upper Austria as in the colleague in Tyrol. I also do not think it amusing to have to point out from the Court of Auditors that school authorities of the Federal Government should be set up and organized in such a way that they are also federal authorities, and that the political influence, as you have mentioned, of course, the head of state on the Council of State Schools is neither politically useful nor economical. In short: What does it need? – We need to put in place the tasks, expenditure and financial responsibility in the hands of which they are competent, and that is why reforms are urgently needed for the highest transparency and efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25573	The next item is the speech by Mr Hell. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25595	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No education topic: The Court of Auditors has also reviewed the Allentsteig troop training centre. With its 15 700 hectares, Allensteig is one of the most important training sites of the Austrian federal army. It is used, among other things, for the general preparation of operations in the framework of training and shooting exercises. It also includes agricultural and forestry areas, hunting areas and quarries. In 2013, the Court of Auditors reviewed the Federal Ministry of the Armed Forces. There were serious shortcomings in the organisation in forestry and hunting concerns as well as in the utilization of shooting facilities and accommodation. For example, the auditors identified serious shortcomings in the cost and performance calculation. Control options and overall national planning of the shooting There was a lack of practice of the Austrian federal army. The Court of Auditors has made 40 recommendations. In his statement to the Committee, the Federal Minister pointed out that he took the criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously and had already taken necessary measures. The maladministrations in the management of the Allentsteig station, which an internal Commission of the Federal Republic of Germany has revealed, have been discontinued. In the discussion, however, the Federal Minister made it quite clear that the Allentsteig Forces Exercise Square is primarily for military use and economic side-uses are more secondary. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25631	Mr Doppler is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25652	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 4 to 6 Court of Auditors reports: I am also taking a position on item 6, which concerns the Allentsteig area of the troops. The 15 700-hectare Allentsteig military site serves the German army as a training and shooting site and is therefore a very important facility for our federal army. It should not be forgotten in all the criticism that the staff has been massively shortened and reduced. The Court of Auditors notes that the organisation of the training centre, aimed at a military goal, whose staff was reduced from 411 to 325 jobs in March 2009, has not been prepared for economic tasks. Yes, it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the shortcomings will be eliminated. We are also very grateful to the Court of Auditors for this. The abuses and irregularities must be identified – and they will be shown – and the documents will be provided to us. I would like to thank you very much, Madam President, and your entire team: a great thank you for that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I already have to hold one. It can't be that staff will be dismantled and yet the same performance will be provided. This is not possible in any way, nor in this military practice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25680	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25701	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. My topic is also the Allentsteig troop training site. The Court of Auditors report deals with the period 2008 to 2013 with the integration of the military forest management into the agendas of the troop training centre in 2013. The examination period falls at a time when the reconstruction of the Austrian federal army was massively operated among the ministers Darabos and Klug, so that the inadequacies were opened door and gate. A rethinking process has only now been initiated by Minister Doskozil. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between military and economic criteria which require different management structures. If the Court of Auditors now criticises that military use for training purposes has not been sufficiently achieved, reference should be made to the decommissioning of military structures by the former Federal Chancellor Faymann and the German Federal Government. Significant for the situation of the ÖBH, in particular the troop training site during this period, is the presentation of the omission of a space of blind people, so that a threat to military personnel as well as civilians can be assumed. The audit of the Court of Auditors' military practice showed serious shortcomings, which can be justified as a result of a policy-making military reconstruction. In fact, the Austrian Federal Army is able to set necessary structures independently and to act accordingly. May the critical evaluations of the Court of Auditors as well as the security need of the Austrian population help to increase the appreciation of the Austrian federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25734	Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25756	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Otherwise, I don't drink anything at the speaker's mouth. [[The speaker takes a swallow out of the water glass due to warmth.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] You have all been able to follow the statements made by my previous speakers and also the statements made by the President. It's the same thing again and again. The Court of Auditors recommends and the representatives of the government parties repeat the recommendations. This morning we have a new edition of the government programme, so to speak, and there you will find in the Education chapter nothing of what we are discussing in the evening as a recommendation. Somehow you get a pretty slow idea that something can't vote, either the perceptiveness of colleagues or the outcome of the negotiations of the government parties. It's the same case every time: The criticism by all the political groups in the Committee on Disability is unanimous. This is clear because the Court of Auditors presents a very consistent paper and very valid audit results. He, this Court of Auditors, also across the entire school administration complex, has issued a school reform of his own position. However, I find nothing in these considerations and in these timetables of the government which we have discussed this morning. Are we going to fool ourselves now? – This is the popular question I dare to raise now. It will continue until it is re-elected. Even then, we still have the obstacle – and this has been indirectly addressed by the speakers – that the state administration does not want. We very much have Members who are supposed to represent the overall well-being of the Republic, but at the same time the Members are on the national lists which are influenced by the respective national leaders, and that is the core of the problem. As long as we do not solve the core of the problem, that finally the Bundesrock determines the attitude of Members and not the national shirt or body, we are also running in the circle during these discussions, Madam President. It is actually a pity for your time and partly a pity for our time, if nothing changes. And I don't see anything that changes because of what's in the position paper here. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Walser has already said: It is wasted 1 billion €, a waste of money by faulty, flawed double structures, multiple competences, overlaps and misallocation of money that does not come to the students, but rotates in the authority because it comes politically located. That's the finding. If nothing changes, it is praiseworthy, and, my goodness, it is your responsibility that the money is not used wisely! But there is a slight silver strip, Mr Mayer has already suggested: Indeed, we have a certain consensus in the Court of Auditors in some areas where the Heads of State have no power to influence where we, as the Federal Commissioner, can decide so to speak. There are ten points I have drawn up myself from the consensus of the discussions in the Court of Auditors Committee. I presented them as members of the opposition in June: Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we have something in common, we do what! It is about half a year now, and, fortunately, Mr Mayer has agreed to make another appointment with experts so that we can finally implement the ten consensus points. I mean, that's hard. There are as simple things as duty of truth to the Court of Auditors, shortening the examination time which you, Madam President, have proposed, but now we are taking up an expert round. This is something that is really at the expense of the people, which is at the expense of flexibility in this House and, above all, of the Court of Auditors, again deals with things that have long since been cut off. That is how it is, and I hope that Mr Mayer and Mr Gahr and Mrs Schenk and Mr Zanger will be able to meet together again in a round and finally present a result. I am speaking in your ear, Mr Colleague, Mrs Colleague, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25829	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the report or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-312 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of teacher service law, which allows for extensive autonomy in human resources. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-254 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-203 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:04:25]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, Series B. 2016/10 (III-294/1464, D.B.) 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2016/8 (III-283/1465, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25938	We now come to Agenda items 7 and 8, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kucher is the first to speak. I'll set you three minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e25966	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today's Court of Auditors report on research funding in Austria, I believe, we have all eagerly expected. Thank you very much also for the great reports. I believe that there is for the first time a comprehensive overview of the flow of payments and research funding in Austria. The debate in the Committee has shown, I believe, that we all want to take the field of research, innovation, technology and research very seriously and use the resources as effectively and efficiently as possible. What we have noticed in the Committee is that we have discussed very constructively and all of us are trying to draw conclusions together as far as possible. However, although the recommendations or, above all, the criticism points are shared in many areas, it is still necessary, I believe, that we also jointly consider what could be concrete distractions, because there are also few patent recipes that are generally applicable. I would like to put this out quite specifically: For example, we have received the criticism that there are too many funding programmes in Austria. There was the term program jungle. There has then been the criticism that there are too many small programs. And there are certainly, I think, questions of principle that we should discuss. The vote between the federal government and countries needs to be improved. There needs to be more transparency, and it needs to be stronger For example, through the federal agencies, cooperation is being made on what individual federal states are already doing very successfully. But what can't be said about what President Tockner of the Science Fund has also referred to is the recommendation that small programmes should be questionable. That, I think, is not right. It is also useful for individual federal states to focus on the fact that they are really trying to benefit from the expertise available on the ground. The second area is the fundamental question: How much planning is necessary in the framework of the programmes? Is the foundry the ideal means, so to speak, or should there be few central government priorities in the field of research funding as another extreme? – I think there is a mix here, and it is important to find a means between direct and indirect research funding in Austria. And that's where we're at. On the initiative of the Committee and in the light of the Court of Auditors' report before Christmas, there was a joint motion for a resolution here in the House that we should take this report as a basis for developing the research and innovation system in Austria. I believe that this Court of Auditors report will be a very important building block. The question of research databases has also been discussed very intensively. We still have to wait, the Research and Technology Development Council is concerned about whether a central database is useful in the sense of cost-benefit analysis or whether a metadata bank would be more targeted. What must definitely happen: that we really bundle the flow of information, that there can be no multiple funding in Austria. Whether we can further combine the number of funding agencies in a field of basic research, applied research and in the field of economic and innovation funding, these are all the issues that we should discuss in detail in the future. Personally, I am very important that we improve the collection of data in Austria, especially in the field of research, where we are in Europe for the first time at 3.1 percent, that statistics Austria and the Ministry of Finance in the field of training, in particular in cooperation with the countries, ensure that all that is effective in Frascati's research, is really done in this way – that is, a lot of tasks for us. I am convinced that we will also take this report as an opportunity to continue to discuss these issues in detail in the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26027	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26048	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors examined research funding between 2010 and 2014, and, of course, it found a complex system. In 2014, €3.1 billion was spent on research funding, and it was evident that, of course, in terms of the flow of payments, there is a certain degree of uncertainty between the federal government and countries. As far as the efficiency and benefits of the system are concerned, there are major differences in cooperation. Mr Kucher has already mentioned almost all the areas that the Court of Auditors has dealt with, and Mr Mahrer, the Secretary of State, has made it very clear in the Committee that this Court of Auditors report represents a clear task for a comprehensive renewal and reorientation of research funding in Austria. The system should be simplified and streamlined. There are currently a variety of programs. Of course, there are also a variety of organizational units, 216 in number, and a variety of departments. And especially as regards quality assurance, there should be best practice examples for orientation in order to increase the impact of research funding in Austria. It needs a pooling of the department's responsibilities. There will be a cross-sectoral directive in the future, and, as Mr Kucher pointed out, there has also been a resolution in the National Council. The evaluation results of the Austrian Economic Service Society and the Research Funding Society will then be available by spring 2017. And it is planned and objective that by the end of the year there should be a comprehensive optimization in terms of structure and funding. The cost-benefit analysis is also a very important challenge in terms of a single research funding database. In 2015, the research rate in Austria was almost 3 percent of GDP. This is 2% in the EU section. The aim is to increase the research rate in Austria to 3.76 percent by 2020. All in all, I think this Court of Auditors report is a clear task. The increase in the research quota is a clear and priority objective for all of us. It contributes significantly to economic growth and prosperity development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26088	The next item is the speech by Mr Lasar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26109	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the Court of Auditors' report, which deals with universities, I would like to make a few points. The university councils can be compared to a Supervisory Board, which consists of up to 9 members working for the respective university. In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors has examined the University Councils at the Med-Uni Innsbruck and the Kunstuni Graz. Criticism points range from different high remunerations to unmistakable salary increases to the fact that some university councils chose flights to the meetings in the business class. I think it is time to finally implement transparency and a uniform regulation of these remunerations in the light of the criticised practices regarding the fees. For example, the newly elected rector at the Kunstuniversität Graz, which was formerly a sectionchefin at the Department of Science, received a fixed annual salary of 76 percent in April 2014 compared to her predecessor in 2007. The question, of course, is: Why do you get that? Is that because you're doing an extra job? Do you have to do more now, or has it remained the same? – In itself, as stated in the Court’s report, the tasks remain the same. That's why I'm wondering: With what justification is there a salary raised by 76 percent? Or: The Court of Auditors also noted that there were problems in cooperation between universities. Council and other governing bodies. This, of course, led to a deterioration of these controls. For example, at the Kunstuni Graz in 2010, there was a costly dispute between the University Council and the Senate about the successors of the Rector, which once again took advantage of the budget. Of course, this is not to be seen, because I think that can also be regulated differently. Or: At the Med-Uni Innsbruck, the generally problematic cooperation of the University Council, the Rectorate and the Senate led to the unimpeded performance of tasks. These criticisms are, however, only an extract from the entire review perspective of the Court of Auditors. That's what I'm saying: On the one hand, the Minister of Science is called upon to take the criticisms of the Court of Auditors seriously and also to repair them so that this will no longer happen in the future. That would be my criticism, and I hope that these circumstances will be changed for the benefit of the university so that such criticisms are no longer mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26157	Mrs Maurer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26179	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Kraker! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! I would also like to talk about university councils that have been working on me for a long time. I have already made a very extensive request to all 21 universities in 2015 in order to get to the bottom of this topic. We have this answer, and we now have from the Court of Auditors a test report with two intensive examinations by two university councils, namely, as I said, the Medical University of Innsbruck and the Kunstuniversität Graz, and have a lot of data to enable us to actually assess the work and the shortcomings in this area. I would like to address two very specific issues which are also central to the Court of Auditors' report: on the one hand, the qualification of the university councils and, on the other hand, the remuneration of the university councils. Let's start with the qualification. The Court of Auditors notes that it was not clear to some university councils whether they had the necessary knowledge for the responsible decisions they had to make. If you look at what the University Law provides for the appointment of university councillors, that is quite narrow. It says that the University Council consists of persons who are or have been in responsible positions in society, in particular science, culture or economy, and who, on the basis of their excellent knowledge and experience, can contribute to the achievement of the objectives and tasks of the University. Each requirement profile in a job invitation for an auxiliary job is more precise and, of course, a requirement profile for university councils must be more extensive and also target the qualifications necessary to understand and decide on the annual accounts, the development plans, the staff plans and so on of the university. I demand in this area that the Ministry specify clearer requirements in the university law. This is not just a job, but it is a very responsible job where public universities are concerned with research. and the teaching, and accordingly we should also put good people there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second issue, which is central to the Court of Auditors' report and which has also shown in my reply that there are very large margins between universities, is the level of remuneration for university councils. We have the absurd situation here that the university councillors themselves decide how much they deserve, and we have a very big span. We have university councils who completely waive any remuneration that only charge the fees for arrival and accommodation, and we have university councils – at the head of the University Council of the Medical University of Innsbruck – who have decided to pay very generously, up to €36 000 a year for the university council president. For comparison only: The average income in Austria is €27 000, and a university council, which regularly holds four to six meetings per year, receives €36 000. That's a clear shabby. And if you compare this now – the Court of Auditors has also used comparisons from other Supervisory Boards – for example, with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, which of course has a multiple budget compared to the Medical University of Innsbruck, then you can say that the remuneration for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is €5 800 plus a meeting fee of € 270 per meeting, that is significantly less. As university council chairman Putz of the Medical University of Innsbruck has unfortunately not shown himself in the Committee with respect to the level of remuneration, and since these figures are very far apart, I am convinced that there is a need for a ceiling. The university councils – not all, but some of them – are obviously not able to decide on fair remuneration for themselves, and so it needs a ceiling. In the meantime, the university law also provides that there should be a regulation for these remunerations. However, as far as the height is concerned, the ministry is quite generous on the road as you hear it. I think that for the Presidency €10 000 and for regular members, €8 000 should be enough. The Committee meeting was particularly annoyed by the fact that the chairman of the University Council, Mr Putz, showed himself inaccurate, also complained about the Court of Auditors' examination and asked what it was doing. – I found that a bit annoying. Unfortunately, that was a very bad example. We know that there are also college councils who take their task very seriously and do them very well. I think as a legislator, as a legislative body, we and also the ministry must look more closely and beat the university councils a little on their fingers, so that they decide to make reasonable, fair rewards for themselves and comply with their job accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26243	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26264	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I would like to talk about funding for research, because today it is possible to look at it more closely in the light of the proposed new government/work programme – whatever – today. The report on research funding contains concrete proposals on how to put research funding in Austria on new feet. None of it finds any of it In this work programme again. This is really proof that concrete proposals that have been on the table for a long time are not being implemented in this programme. What does the report say? – I would like to focus on the point of research funding in the countries, that €460 million of €2.6 billion is spent there. As we all know, there are no national funds, but there are only federal funds. There federal money is given to the federal states, who in turn spend it themselves and have their own research strategies. In 2012, there was a Court of Auditors report in which the Court of Auditors strongly criticised the fact that there are sometimes no strategies for how this money is spent in the countries, and if so, they are relatively confuscious and certainly have little to do with the federal research strategy. Some countries use the federal agencies to continue to grant the research funds, which I find particularly funny, because they get money from the federal government that they spend by taking advantage of the services of the federal agencies in order to spend the money they previously received from the federal government. You could have saved yourself an intermediate step. A third of the funds spent in the federal states for R & D are also not plausible, as one calls it, if there are no research expenditure that can be understood according to Frascati manual. The country problem in research funding is something that perhaps reminds us of the problem of the countries-unis, of the so-called private unions, which are not private associations, because, in turn, federal funds as national funds were foreigned to put them in private union. That's something you could have changed. There are very good initiatives, such as those of the FWF, which is very committed to achieving efficiency improvement in the Matching Fund – which, however, is a correction in the wake of this fundamental problem. What does the government do as it has now presented it? – It increases the research premium, which is once again a spending of research funds according to the principle of foundry, actually a site premium that has nothing to do with research funding. Here in this report there is a clear task for the government to put research funding in Austria on new legs so that the money can also reach where it can be used in research useful and effective. – And yes, it’s there, it just had to be done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26313	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26334	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Like the school system, the university education system also fights with bureaucratic problems that are similar. As in the school system, there is no lack of managers in the university system. The University Law – § 20 – knows four management bodies for a university with rector, rectorate, Senate and University Council – and all management bodies are required to set up. In companies it is common to have a board of directors and a Supervisory Board, i.e. a Supervisory Board. Why can't you also implement this example in the field of universities? The report shows that there are too many disputes, Problems have come and too many cooks can spoil the loaves. This would certainly be a matter which we could take up and which should also be dealt with. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My predecessor, Mr Maurer, has already raised a number of points on the Committee's information. I also think that the two university councils – Mrs. Goldmann from Graz and Mr. Putz from Innsbruck – were very special about answering the questions and their appearance in the committee. Things that were not asked were reproduced, on the other hand, questions that were asked were not answered. I do not think that this is a good access, and they were not very useful to the Committee either – I see it at least. I would like to give a positive opinion to Mr Mahrer, the Secretary of State, who has been very competent in the Committee and who has presented his ideas very competently, although it must also be said that not all the questions have been answered. But I was really very surprised, and you have to say this positively, if there is something positive to say. I would also like to address research funding. This has also been mentioned for a short time. It is no surprise that research funding in Austria is so much an opaque jungle. We've heard about the jungle programme, from the jungle of financing: There are many areas, especially as regards the question of which projects are then recognised as research projects in the countries. The report therefore also points out that there are many open questions and that there must be a solution. However, these questions could not be answered in the Committee. So the question arises whether it makes sense to conduct a church tower policy in the field of research, or whether it would not be better to see research as a federal matter only. – This would be another proposal to be discussed, and I hope that we will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26385	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26407	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure prosperity, innovation and research are a very important prerequisite. In Austria a very ambitious goal has been set – that has already been mentioned. 3.1 percent of GDP is spent on research. The Federal Government is now aiming to increase this share to 3.76 percent, which makes Austria safe in the top European field. On the one hand, an overall overview is desirable in order to detect and prevent any double promotions. On the other hand, my colleague Kucher mentioned it, thematic and local divisions and priorities are also, in principle, a useful approach. I have looked at the practice in my district to judge the side-by-side of the rails. Over the last ten years, an average of €10 million has been paid out annually. On the one hand, high-level research such as AIT, Baxalta, key companies that secure highly qualified jobs, such as Bombardier or Robust Plastics, and on the other hand, start-up operations were promoted. For almost two dozen companies, there has been one that is in liquidation, which is very little in view of the fact that research investment is, of course, risk capital. It is also gratifying that promoters are involved in the Frontrunner programme and that businesses are encouraged to become world leaders in niches. All in all, a standardisation of data collection is desirable and necessary. It can be noted that in practice, as I have seen and mentioned, the money comes, innovation and employment are promoted and the course is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26443	Mrs Schittenhelm is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26464	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been discussed about the university councils and the various criticisms that appear very precisely and in detail in the Court of Auditors' report. The objective of the cross-sectional review was to review and assess the performance of the strategic, economic and organisational tasks of the University Councils, their appointment and organisation as well as their performance by the competent ministry. It has already been said, also by Mr Schenk, it is right, through disagreements, due to non-existent communication, not only errors have happened here, but nothing has happened at all. The conflict-related cooperation between the University Council, the Rectorate and the Senate has led to the fact that the management of the audited universities simply did not take place. That's fact. Neither the Kunstuni Graz nor the MedUni in Innsbruck had a new development plan approved by the University Council at the time of the draft performance agreement 2013–2015. You can't even imagine such a thing in the smallest operation. Budget estimates were repeatedly submitted to the University Council only in the current budget year. There's usually no community. There is also criticism – and this has already been mentioned – of the remuneration for the members of the University Council. I am slightly different from my previous speakers, for I have seen very well that the rector of the Kunstuni Graz, but also the rector of the University of Innsbruck, has reported in detail how certain remunerations have come to be. One thing has to be clear to us: If we want top people in these positions, that'll cost you a little bit. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: But not that much!]] - Yes! You also have to see it in the international comparison, I have looked at it very closely. If today a rector, a university professor from Germany, arrives to accept these shears in Innsbruck and much more, then of course he also has his prize. Mrs. Rektorin Goldmann has also very impressively explained why this 75 percent increase in salary has occurred: because this post was not occupied for a whole year or more and three people have carried out this task. We should not leave that unmentioned either. However, I am also concerned that the Court of Auditors' reports are taken very seriously. This was clearly stated by State Secretary Mahrer and also supported. In the course of the revision of the University Law 2002, the universities, as we know, were granted autonomy, and this should continue to be so, because it was important and right to have entrepreneurship universities in our country. It is about carefully analysing the problem points and finding solutions. This is currently happening in a working group at the Ministry of Science under our vice-chanc Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. One thing is also quite clear: I am convinced that the right steps will not only depress the criticism points, but also allow better administration to improve their work in these universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26504	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Kraker, has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26525	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The university autonomy implemented since 2004 implies an increased responsibility of the directly responsible university institutions, the Rectorate, the Senate and the University Councils, for the budget and economic management of the universities. But universities operate with public resources. This results in the test competence, with all autonomy: Freedom on the one hand, economies with public resources on the other. In the present case, we checked the performance of the university councils at the Medical University of Innsbruck and at the Kunstuniversität Graz. The university councils are entrusted with these autonomy control and control tasks and supervisory functions. In the course of our examination – as Mrs Schittenhelm has just said – we had to find that there was not always a working cooperation between the university councils, the rectors and the Senate that control instruments were not always used in a planned way and management tools that were given in hand were not always used properly. The example of the Kunstuniversität Graz shows that there have been many years of disagreement between the institutions, between the Senate and the University Council. This led to a patch position. At the Medical University of Innsbruck, for example, allegations were made by the rectorate alone, without compliance with the proposed approval obligations by the University Council. At the Medical University of Innsbruck, the development plan, which should be a central control instrument, was also approved in the course of autonomy only one year after the performance agreement had been concluded. It should also be noted that, by decision-making, more than 40 development plans were needed. That means the control was often impaired. What I want to maintain as President of the Court of Auditors is that it is not the partial interests of the individual institutions that must be in the foreground, but the focus must be on the respective university as a whole, namely all the institutions of the universities. A subject of the report has also been raised here: remuneration. We have compared these in the report. For a long time, in the absence of any relevant legal requirements, it was possible to free these fees from the University Councils, and we found that, on average, the remunerations laid down are related. At the Medical University of Innsbruck, meeting fees were about twice as high as those at the Kunstuniversität Graz. There was then the University Law Novelle 2015 and there is a regulatory authority that authorizes the introduction of upper limits. The Court of Auditors' recommendation was aimed at a wide range of measures that should be taken in accordance with comprehensible criteria. The Regulation has not yet been adopted. We hope and appeal that at least at the beginning of the next 2018 service agreement, the notified regulation of the Science Area will be put into effect. Travel fees were also the subject of the report. The position of the Court of Auditors is that the travel fee requirement should be applied at least to the members of the University Councils. I would like to mention briefly the report on research funding in Austria: I believe that this report is important because it gives an overview of the system of public funding for research in Austria. This system is complex and diverse. We have found that 216 organisational units are involved in research funding. There were 136 R&D programmes at federal and national level in 2014, and a total of around €3 billion was financed, of which €2.6 billion were from the federal government. The research rate was 3%. The aim is to raise the quota to 3.76 percent. I think that has been reaffirmed in the work programme presented today for the next two years. However, in the report we recommended that the research rate should not be seen in isolation, but that it be considered in a wider context – including quantifiable impact indicators such as an innovation performance index. The main conclusions of the report are that research funding in Austria, through the distribution of funds to the intermediaries of the Federal Government and the Länder, through the variety of actors and through the shared management of the R&D return flows from the EU budget, is very unclear. We have recommended examining the possibilities of focusing research-specific tasks on fewer organisational units and fewer research promotion agencies. We see it as positive when it comes to optimising research funding. In the Court's view, a possibility would also be that resolution cooperation would be needed to produce synergies and to ensure existing know-how and uniform evaluation criteria. We have found that the individual federal states cooperate to a different extent within the framework of these resolution cooperations with the intermediaries such as the FFG or the FWF. I just want to remove two federal states: Upper Austria, for example, uses these resolution operations. Vienna, despite the spatial proximity to the FFG and the FWF, does not benefit. Finally, I would also like to thank the National Council for having given this report the opportunity to draw up a resolution on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26593	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26616	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on research funding in Austria. My previous speakers and you, Madam President, have already summarized the criticisms and, above all, highlighted the transparency of research funding. In order to make more clear and to make the promotions easier, more transparent and more targeted, we call for finally to implement a uniform research funding database across the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors also sees the research and development ratio as it does not focus on objectives and results according to its analysis. Statements on the effectiveness of the funds used are therefore difficult to understand. In January of this year, the FPÖ Parliamentary Club organised a science programme. Dr. Hannes Androsch of the Council for Research and Technology Development and Professor Loprieno, Chairman of the Science Council, were speakers. On the topic of research funding in Austria, we visited Professor Tockner, the president of the Science Fund, as an expert. He has explained that the Science Fund is under-financed because the budget has not been adjusted since 2011. Unfortunately, this also means that excellent research projects can no longer be carried on. Another wish Dr. Tockner expressed was that the dialogue between society and science should be strengthened. In doing so, he called for more media attention to science, especially from the ORF. More variety of programmes for science and research is also part of the public-law programme contract. So we need more scientific programmes and not just commercial series, such as “Big Bang Theory”. The coalition is sufficiently concerned with this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government is still far away from its objective of increasing the research rate from 3.6 to 3.76 percent by 2020, and will unfortunately not be able to reach this quota by 2020. We liberals want a research funding law that ensures long-term research planning. We want a pooling of research agendas and an extension of indirect tax research funding. We want SMEs and start-up companies to have better access to research funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26668	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26690	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this report by the Court of Auditors on research funding is a good overview and shows how complex and inexhaustible research funding is. At the same time, it is a good basis to address the problems raised. Many of these have already been mentioned today. The following are the main points on which reforms must be made urgently. The first problem is the multi-structure. As we know, they are inefficient, and this needs a consistent reform for a long time. The President of the Court of Auditors has said that Upper Austria has been doing this for many years and very well That's it. That's something we've always been very supportive of. We know that the various intermediaries – FFG, FWF, the KLI.EN, the CCP and so on – are doing very good work. Putting the resolution together is a first important step. A second element is a simplification and streamlining of the support structure. This is urgently necessary, for we know, for example, that it is always a very complex matter to be promoted on the one hand, but on the other hand, especially in EU funding programmes, to be able to get the billing well on the stage. This too is urgently necessary. And, of course, there is also a need for a reforestation of the programmes. 136 F&E programmes – that can only be casting cans. I am convinced that we need to focus on the major challenges from climate change to digital change to migration movements. That's exactly what you need to focus on. When it comes to the diversity of the various organisational units at the federal level, which has been addressed – 216 in the number – you have to, of course, and this is not the case in the Court of Auditors' report, take a look at these and the ministries: How can there be efficiency gains and mergers? Another essential point to be able to use public funds effectively and efficiently is, of course, transparency. We need transparency, and one of the key points here is, of course, a comprehensive research funding database and a regular evaluation of the resources used. Yes, we have an overview of direct research funding, its evaluation on the table. What we haven't had on the table for years is an evaluation of indirect research funding. The research premium was increased from 8 to 10 percent in 2011, from 10 to 12 percent in 2016 – without any evaluation. What happened now? – The Federal Government is presenting a new work programme and refers to intermediate results of an evaluation of indirect research funding which is not available to us here in Parliament, but, it seems, the two government parties. And that is not understandable! I think that the evaluation of both areas, direct and indirect research funding, is on the table, and that it is here in Parliament that we must work with all our efforts to put the funding structures on good, well-founded, forward-looking legs. That is why I think it is urgent to make these intermediate results available to us as well. The Court of Auditors' report also referred to the fact that the evaluation of indirect research funding is not on the table. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of further constructive cooperation here in Parliament, we naturally invite ÖVP and SPÖ to support this urgently and directly.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26768	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26832	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26854	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker, we cannot accept your request because, in the near future, the final report of this evaluation will anyway be available and it is not useful to perhaps present an incomplete and therefore not suitable interim report a month before its submission. [[Abg. Maurer: But the Federal Government takes action on this basis!]] I am now in the audit of research funding in Austria carried out by the Court of Auditors. Yes, one can agree that, due to historical development, there has now been a very large amount of funding and some inconsistency has taken place. It is certainly good to go through this once, but I do not want to go as far as I heard today from the NEOS and Team Stronach groups, namely to call into question the funding of the federal states in principle. This federal funding is often very important and very harmonious, because of course it can address regional conditions much more specifically than it could do with purely centralist support. I speak from long and very precise experience. In the same way as Upper Austria, Tyrol also uses the strengths of the FWF or the FFG and other agencies, especially in the assessment of applications, and does not create double-tracks which cause additional costs. I am also glad that Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker has already referred to the very successful EU funding or, let us say it precisely, to the very successful participation and use of EU funding by Austrian institutions. We are also above-averagely successful in the Horizon 2020 framework programme. A short while ago, the second part of the debate, the Court of Auditors' report on the University Councils. The Court of Auditors has carefully picked out the two most problematic universities, with less of the University Council at the Kunstuni Graz and more of the conflict between the Senate and the Rectorate, but this seems to be solved by now, how even the Kunstuni Graz is now taking a very good development. It will probably also be a merit of the new rector, and with this she will probably earn her salary. Regarding the University Council of the Medical University Innsbruck, it is to be said that, in fact, one of my medially, too, has happened several times as an annoyed outsider in the remuneration, which I hope will soon be corrected. At least it will have to be corrected if the regulation to which we have authorized the Minister goes out. That will be, I am sure, timely at the start of the next University Council, and then, I think, is this criticism point from the world. Otherwise, I think that the interaction between Senate, University Council, Rectorate and Rector at most universities works very well and that the University Councils do quite exactly that and carry out in a competent way what the 2002 law has attributed to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26890	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26912	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs National Council President, I wish you well! I think you're very cold, but I'll keep my speech short. Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 8, Court of Auditors Report on Research Funding: Austrian research funding is complex and inexhaustible. This does not mean anyone, but the Court of Auditors' report on research funding in Austria comes to this conclusion. It has already been mentioned that the National Council unanimously called for a rapid and comprehensive evaluation of research funding and progressed. As far as I know, the Court of Auditors was concerned primarily with drawing up and presenting an overall overview of research funding in Austria and in particular its payment flows. This has provided a basis for implementing measures to improve the efficiency of research funding. How meaningful this basis is, we will see in the various databases. In the League we have several, with the countries I know 14 we have the number. It is important for the future to create uniform survey standards so that these databases also have the power to say, because research is important, research creates tomorrow's jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e26942	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm just a little sluggish, nothing bad. There is no one left to speak now. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-294 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-283 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This report has also been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, on the disclosure of the interim results of the evaluation of the research premium. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Brosz: A secret paper!]] [[21:55:55]] 9. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, series Bund 2016/2 (III-245/1466, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27002	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27029	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Like many other European energy suppliers, KELAG Herz GmbH, after the liberalisation of the electricity market, has, in the hope of making a large portion of the cake as possible, put it on an all too fast expansion course, and this, unfortunately, can only be said, has gone well and led to the destruction of many, many million euros. The causes are diverse. The Court of Auditors has very carefully analysed this. It was the lack of participation management, weaknesses in controlling, a lack of coordination with the parent group and has reached to illegal procurement procedures. What was exciting and also important for the work of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors is of course that we have been confirmed that most of the Court of Auditors recommendations have already been implemented, that they have learned from them, and that the damage has also been greatly remedied. This is evidence of the Court of Auditors' great audit work, which is strongly recommended. For a large Carinthian employer like KELAG with many, many dedicated employees, this is also very, very important for a successful future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27059	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27081	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to disagree somewhat with Mr Kucher, because these calamities, which we found in Carinthia at KELAG Herz GmbH, do not have anything to do with the liberalisation of the electricity market or with international trends in expansion, but there were simply management errors, a misevaluation of the situation. The Court of Auditors has also said very well that, beginning in 2001 in this decade, the KELAG Warmness, without any agreement with the mother, has driven an expansional, a massive expansional course, which also had a huge impact on the company as a whole. I can say that in 2009 KELAG Herz GmbH had six domestic and 16 foreign holdings, but many also had negative balances at that time. I can quote from the Court of Auditors' report on the situation in 2009: ‘A capital injection of 31.13 million EUR [...] amounted to a return of 3.58 million. EUR 12,15 million losses EUR and expenditure of 1.70 million. EUR against.’ As a consequence, KELAG Herz GmbH liquidated or sold 13 of its foreign holdings, and two domestics had to stop their operations due to continued losses. For me, once again the question arises – and I have already asked it at the committee meeting – why especially at a time when another Carinthian company has also put very much on an expansion course, mainly also in south-eastern Europe, the KELAG heat also became active in this market. Furthermore, the procedure for awarding contracts was also criticised, for example in construction and assembly work. There were gross infringements, and according to the Court of Auditors, they amounted to a savings potential of around €3.31 million. Some award failures would have been significant and irreproachable in legal award procedures in accordance with the Federal Procurement Act 2006. I'm allowed to finish and cut down a little. My previous speaker – and I am right with him – has mentioned that most of the Court’s recommendations have been implemented very quickly and quickly and that KELAG has done this homework since this time – since this Court of Auditors report, but also a little bit before – and now the heat daughters are also stable. This has also been demonstrated by this opinion, and we then hope for a follow-up report, for a follow-up review of whether the positive trend that can be found has continued at KELAG's heat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27126	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27147	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Another chapter addressed in this report is the issue of the elimination of tax debts. If you can't imagine anything under it, it's quite easy: These are tax debts that Austrian companies have at the financial office. The total tax debt – not the erased – in Austria amounts to € 7.67 billion at the end of 2013. I suppose it may have become a little more of what we will learn in the course of a request. That's nothing! This is at least 10 percent of the total tax revenue of the federal government in one year. At that time in 2013, of the €7.67 billion, so to speak, was €1.8 billion in cash. It is also very interesting how this is composited. About half of these, over €800 million, result from VAT debts, i.e. from non-paid sales tax. If one goes a little further, one learns that the Court of Auditors has also analysed the business structure, i.e. what forms of enterprise the most contributing to these debts. They are mainly companies with limited liability or small companies. If we now make the presumption – and this is what we have done in the Committee and ask the Minister of Finance – that, particularly in the border areas in the construction sector, entrepreneurs from the East often come across and start a business here, it can also be assumed that perhaps a very large part of it contributes to the tax debt in Austria. The Minister of Finance has not answered that. In my opinion, there is no answer either, but we will also ask this in the form of a written request and see whether we are right or not. It doesn't have to be, it can be. If I don't get an answer, the suspicion is very close. Overall, if I have such a degree of financial debt or external debt, I have to make sure that I get it back sometime. It is also interesting that the Court of Auditors has found that one could not even say or actually have not had an overview of how old these debts are or how different they have existed for a long time. In other words, there is a clear lack of an early warning system that would indicate this in time: Look out, there's something you need to do! I am not a friend of the fact that the financial office is carrying out some strict tests or is very restrictive in the case of outsiders, as is often the case. Financial authorities and local health funds are known to be those institutions that are there once with a bankruptcy request. I don't think that's very useful. It would be more likely to try to discuss with the debtor in the form of a risk management and to find out what possibilities he still has, because when a company is sent into insolvency, the outsiders usually look through the fingers. With a skillful management one could perhaps avert such insolvency in advance. As I said, Missing risk management, missing early warning system. There is also a lack of appropriate computer support in the form of an analysis program. All of this would actually be done, and I am surprised that such a prestigious ministry as the Ministry of Finance, in which many experts are sitting, should not bring it together. I think there will be a need for action. At times, we will consult the implementation of the recommendations, especially in view of the fact that, as you can see and the report can also be seen, previous audits, which date back to 2007, have not produced anything and the recommendations have not been implemented from there. I think there's really a lot of money behind that, you could do something. Above all, it is the Republic's tax revenue. If you manage them properly, you may not need other tax measures in the form of tax increases either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27215	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27236	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Short to KELAG: It is a moral picture of the public mismanagement, the The Court of Auditors' report must be established. It is clear that it was expanded to devils coming out, foreign projects were started, companies were founded and purchased at home and abroad. We have spent €31,13 million on the acquisition and €14 million in loss. In some cases, the public hand in Carinthia also operates with German help. What we need to change is to virtually prevent the cause of this system procedure. The issue is that responsible owners are going to work, and above all, it is also about the fact that the owners are finally doing well on calls for tenders, because only at the time of the invitations to tender they have thrown at least three million euros out of the window by buying expensively instead of doing the different acquisitions properly and sparingly. So there are examples of this – and I would also like to conclude my remarks – that we have awarded orders that were 370 percent above the order value. So you paid three times more than it was worth. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, thank you for the report. Don't repeat something like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27275	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27297	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I may refer to the KELAG Herz GmbH report again. This report naturally raises key issues of participation management and the Group Strategy. In the end, there were total losses resulting from the adjustment of the stakes of € 14 million and issues related to public procurement. The Court of Auditors notes that correct and flawless tenders are key conditions for effective competition. This also applies to public enterprises operating in the energy sector. What shortcomings have we seen? – We have seen that, through the division of orders and by failing to fulfil the criteria of careful evaluation of the contract value, the procurement procedure has often been unfairly chosen. In the case of a realistic estimate, KELAG Herz GmbH should have awarded Upper Swellen services. There were shortcomings in the performance tables, which, of course, also increases the risk of a bidder crash. There was insufficient documentation, transparency and equal treatment of bidders. A high proportion of expensive directors were recorded, and contractually agreed pönals were not required. With 67 percent of the award procedures, the choice of the award procedure was not lawful. The weighted low-cost bidder principle applied was not provided for in the contract law, it would have been necessary to carry out an in-depth supply review. We have here formulated numerous recommendations and instructions for action. We have also calculated a savings potential of around €3.3 million. Some of the award failures were significant and incorruptible. The contracting authority should have left the tenders. The recommendations and conclusions are summarised in the report. The central points are: We require strict application of the applicable federal procurement law, the continuous and secure application of the four-eye principle and the principles of internal control, quality assurance in planning, the plausibilization of quantities in the production of performance registers, the control of services awarded to third parties – keyword perception of the client responsibility – the timely cost tracking, in order to also reduce costs in time. In this sense, effective anti-claim management should be installed. The Court of Auditors has already announced in the Committee that in a follow-up review at Kelag Herz GmbH we will monitor the state of implementation of the recommendations expressed – we have been promised that we will endeavour to implement the recommendations – in particular in the field of awarding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27352	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-245 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:10:54]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 1667/A(E) by Mr Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on the package of measures to combat women's poverty (1410 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27398	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27426	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are also very often dealing with inequalities in the equal treatment committee. One of the causes of the different life situations of women and men in this country is, of course, the fact that income differences are very large in Austria. This, in turn, can result in women being more threatened or affected by poverty than men in particular. This is precisely what this proposal is about today, which we would like to assign to the Committee as an equal treatment committee, because it is a package of measures against women's poverty. Two specific proposals have been made: The first proposal is to increase the net rate of replacement for unemployment benefit; the second measure is the calculation of emergency aid. In doing so, I and many women's organisations say that we have been discussing for years the fact that the billing of the partner's income is actually not the case for many women, who then cannot have adequate emergency aid at their age. However, it was very likely in 2011 that the change in minimum security would improve women, and we believe that the Minister of Social Affairs will certainly be able to list many measures. I could do it now, too. We are only thinking of what the Federal Government has presented today in the measures to be implemented over the next one and a half years, which will mainly benefit women. Apart from the tax reform already decided before, it is about adapting to an adequate wage, to an adequate salary for women who earn less than €1500 gross. This is now being started. It is also a matter of measures for older workers. It is also about women who want to make a career but are prevented from doing so. I am not of the opinion of some of the other Members here in the House that there is no quota; otherwise we would have more women in these positions, because there are enough qualified women. It is also about compatibility issues which, of course, the fathers address equally, and simply about a good education of children in all-day school forms. All this is going to start now. Finally, I must say that we in the Committee on Equal Opportunities say that we often go quite unorthodox ways – thank you, Madam President – by, for example, inviting the presidents of the social partners once more and doing so again in order to be able to discuss precisely these differences in the income situation of women and men with the professionals. [[Abg. Schimanek: They didn't come!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: But they have to come!]] - I think this time they'll come. Therefore: Labour market policies as a measure against the risk of poverty are well removed in the Equal Treatment Committee, but need to be discussed in the Committee. That's what we want today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27475	Mrs Schittenhelm's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27497	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have, of course, also worked very intensively on Mr Aslan's request, namely this package of measures to combat women's poverty. Unfortunately, God is a topic in Austria. It's not supposed to be, but it's true. It is not only our hearts to this issue, but we are also required to take further action here. The report of Statistics Austria clearly refers to household incomes in Austria, which are at risk of 13.9% of the population. For women, the figure is 14 per cent, while for men it is only 12 per cent. There is also a clear indication that living pensioners alone with 18 percent are much more vulnerable than single pensioners. If we look at the last social report, we must note with horror that in spite of work, 297 000 people in Austria are called poor and working Poor. Their income is not sufficient to achieve income above the poverty risk threshold for themselves and their families. In particular, it has been said by the Federal Minister, apart from service Heinisch-Hosek, that single women, low-education people and women are particularly affected. Of course also foreigners who are not powerful in the German language and who have not yet really sounded. At least 400 000 people in the private sector receive a gross wage of less than €1500 based on full-time employment. Two thirds of them are women. That is why I am very, very happy, because I hope that we can realize the fastest, namely the comprehensive minimum wage of €1500. I hope that this will really be realized by summer at the latest, as set out in the Federal Government's work programme. We need this for the women, for this group. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the SPÖ representatives, as well as the Agg. Aslan.]] The Federal Government's work programme also sets out employment actions – which has been discussed very intensively even today – namely the 20 000 employment action for those over 50 years old. Of course, this also applies to men, but there are also the women who are affected again; and I think it is important that this is also started. We need to set as many accents as possible. Even if we have to invest money, even if we have to take money into our hands, we need it for employment. Employment is also a meaning of life, is also an attitude of values in the life of a human being, of course also among women. We know, of course, that through the entry and exit of women from working life when children come, there are disadvantages in the profession. They get in, they get out, they have another income, and above all they also work part-time. Some say about part-time work: If we don't need, don't be, it must be full-time! The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, part-time is a model of wish and not a model of compulsion. All studies show that the richer countries, including Austria, have a very high share of part-time work. Nevertheless, it is necessary to inform women that they must also take care of themselves, that they themselves must take up that profession and do that work so that they can also take care of themselves, they should be alone. This is a very important and important point. As has been said, many points in the new work programme concern women in particular. I am not talking about quotas for supervisory councils at 30 percent. I would have liked it if it were 50 percent; but be glad that we now have 30 percent. Especially on the crucial floors – not the Supervisory Board, but the business days are enough – there should be more women. It is important for us that they are not just so-called role models here, but show: Yeah, it's possible, we can make it and we'll help you. I think that's also our job as women's speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27564	Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27585	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we are discussing Mrs Aslan's request to allocate the package of measures to the Committee on Women's Poverty. At least we have something to discuss after the meeting of the Committee on Equal Treatment of 6. In the event of a breach of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, of the Treaty establishing the European Community, of the European Community, of the Treaty on European Union, of the Treaty on European Union, of the Many things will not be discussed here in plenary, but we would have had a lot to discuss. On the agenda of the Equal Treatment Committee, we have had the federal equal treatment report, the private sector equal treatment report and the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the evaluation of the instruments of equal treatment law. Unfortunately, my request regarding the implementation of measures to improve the income situation of women in Austria has failed to allow us to discuss it today. Unfortunately, he was postponed again. Nevertheless, I am very glad that we can talk about the issue of poverty in women. The reasons for women's poverty are diverse. They range from poor educational opportunities to difficult access to the labour market, from care responsibilities for sick family members to mental and physical diseases. But especially the pensioners and single-schoolers – my previous speakers have already mentioned it – are more at risk of poverty. 22 per cent of single-life pensioners, this is every fourth pensioner, are threatened with poverty. At the end of the month, it is not clear whether to use the small rest of their pension for food or necessary medicines – in such a rich country as Austria. That's a shame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of the single parents, 24 percent are, that is, almost every fifth single parent, threatened by poverty – my colleague Schittenhelm has already mentioned it – even when they go to work. They go to work and still have too little to live because their salary is too small. For women and their families, being poor means not being able to heat the apartment properly, visiting a doctor, not being able to use dental visits, not buying new clothes, not even being able to buy meat every second day to prepare it for the family. There are no cinema visits for the children and no school trips, and this is really a disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – This is a good word now, Mrs. Worm. I miss the faith! I listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic today, and he said in his speech that it was very important for him to put his energy in there and not to prevent it, and then I read in a daily newspaper: ‘Kern: ‘95 percent of policy consists of staging’. – I believe that everything that has been promised so fully today will also be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] - No, please, that's from today, you like to read it. I am very happy when we really get improvements, but I lack the belief that it will come about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Believe you! Trust me!]] - No, with confidence, that's been over for a long time. Look at you really bringing something together, and then I might give you a little praise! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27659	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27681	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My proposal actually explains why it is difficult for women in emergency situations to secure themselves in a way that is existent. Of course, there are many measures and opportunities today to ensure equal opportunities for women in the labour market. But I have the feeling that the whole thing is moving at a massive screw rate. In order to accelerate or break this screw pace, it simply takes much stronger levers that you have to put on. We need to focus on social security systems in this regard. This is particularly true for women in the case of unemployment insurance and emergency aid. Why unemployment insurance? – For example: Assuming a roommaid in Tyrol must go stamp after the end of the season to get her unemployment benefit. The problem is that she simply doesn't secure her unemployment money existentally. She can't live on it because it's too low. In addition, it will be seriously disadvantaged later in the pension, due to this low unemployment benefit and this existential non-security, which is available to it monthly. The problem of emergency aid linked to household income is a further one. That is, it is not an individual right, although it pays the same benefit; but: If she has the wrong – I deliberately say bad – that her husband or her partner deserves too much, then there is the possibility that she will get nothing or too little of this social benefit. This is simply unfair, unfair and, in my opinion, no longer modern, and it must be abolished immediately in de facto. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Shit helmet.]] So if we really want an effective equality policy, then we have to put on the right lever, where little is going on, where it is still at the pace of the snails. This can only work if we really start at many different levels in order to reduce the poverty of women in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27729	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is only a two-minute remaining speaking time for your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27750	Madam President. We are now discussing a package of measures against women's poverty, which includes some good solutions, but I believe that it is entirely beyond the goal; above all, the aim that Mrs Aslan has just carried out: to enable women to live self-determined and independent lives, to ensure that they do not end up in poverty because they have a much too small pension. It is written in your application: “A basic means of combating poverty for women (and their children) is the better integration of women into the labour market.” All the more surprising I am that there is nothing to be found explicitly at this point. The measures, for example, the increase in the net replacement rate in unemployment insurance, should be seen as very critical in principle, apart from the fact that the principle of unemployment insurance is completely out of place. In turn, it is something that could be seen as a negative incentive to work. We knew. In the budget debate, we talked about what was contained in the budget objectives of the Ministry of Finance in the UG 16 and also as gender targets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aslan.]] That is how we manage to get women into employment. It is possible to get women into employment by abolishing all the obstacles that prevent them from being able to pursue full - time employment. This is a problem that is self-employed. [[Abg. Aslan: That's not true!]] This is another thing that comes out of the minimum wage. [[Abg. Aslan: It's much less...!]] That is, in my opinion, fundamental economic theory: If we know that women in particular are affected by the fact that they are in the low-paid sector, and that we have a lot of tax policy approaches that they hold in this low-paid sector and that they are ceding there, then we must not put in place more measures that simply perpetuate this problem. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need to remember a fundamental system change. This is about self-employment and independence, and this is not achieved by increasing the net rate of replacement in unemployment insurance, but by a self-employed income, ideally full-time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aslan]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27832	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27853	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an assignment to the Committee and the allocation of a request from Mr Berivan Aslan, whom we also discussed and discussed in the Committee. Now we come from the postponements almost to the allocations. I hope that this will not happen now, but that we will also deal with something in the Committee. We have already discussed this problem more often, because the Rules of Procedure do not exist here that the Ministers responsible would be present. We are going to clarify this, and we have discussed it with the President-in-Office. That is why I voted in my next request for this allocation, because many of our requests or many concerns are a cross-sectional matter, and there are also many other ministries involved or involved, where one should, of course, do and do this together. Women's policy is a cross-sectional matter, we know, and therefore consent. Of course, we are also committed – like everyone here, I believe – to measures against women's poverty. It is quite clear that this has also been addressed by the previous speakers. However, we have a slightly different access here than it is set out in the request. I don't want to defuse part-time. Many women work voluntarily in part-time, want to work part-time or need part-time, but of course you also have to draw attention to the problems that arise and which can also lead to poverty of old age, especially if the pension is missing. There are a number of approaches, a number of measures and a whole set of measures to solve this problem or address this problem. I would like to mention a few of them, such as the fact that they are also employed by the employer – a key word for more flexible working time models. This was also mentioned today in the course of the debate on the government programme. You'll see to what extent something comes to the table. An area would also be a very important point, namely an increased offer of home office and telework, as well as an increased range of farm kindergartens. This too is a big problem, which is being given too little attention. Furthermore, the care system is a large and important area, which is also part of it, because we know that many women at home are caring for the care and needy relatives. Of course, that's also a big problem. Furthermore, I am sorry that the ÖVP has not implemented another problem, namely the better crediting of child rearing times, because this is unfortunately not the case in the new government programme presented today. Due to the short time I have to end now, because I need a few minutes for my next request. As I said, There's a lot to do there. I hope that together we will find good solutions and that we can fight poverty together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27901	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27923	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether a woman can live economically independently and independently depends on the profession and on her work. Now we know that in the public service the professional equal treatment works mostly well. Let's take a look at the private sector: What measures are needed? How do more women achieve leadership positions? . We have mentioned briefly today the quota for more supervisory councillors. This quota exists in public enterprises, but does not exist in private enterprises until now. This will change at the beginning of next year. In part, my previous speakers have already mentioned how brilliant part-time service conditions are, because those concerned simply do not know what impact this has on the pension. However, women sometimes have to find that even if they work full-time, they earn a lot less than their male colleagues in the same function. Statistics show that women earn by 22.4 percent less. That's alarming! I thought the internal wage transparency was a good means of countering this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another solution to women's poverty is the desired minimum wage of €1500. Ladies and gentlemen, we take these steps together to tackle the poverty of women, especially in old age. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27959	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e27980	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On some topics one feels a bit reminded of the film “And daily the Murmeltier”. For a hundred years we have been concerned about how we can eliminate women's poverty during working life and in retirement. There are small light views. In the years between 2004 and 2014, the income shear has decreased from 22,5 to 18 percent for full-time workers all year round. That's at least once a little light look. If we are now considering what measures could lead to a further reduction in income scarcity, then we must, for example, consider: also ask the question: What's a society worth? The question I sometimes ask myself is: Why is it obvious that building an engine is worth more than caring for old people? – Perhaps it has to do with the fact that some prefer to spend more money on a car than on caring for their mother. There are some solutions in this context: For example, we need to think about improving the pay in the so-called grant professions, which are usually women's occupations – these are care, childcare, trade and service. On the other hand, it also needs incentives as early as possible to enable girls to discover their technical skills and then enter one of these better paid professions. Another essential factor, of course, is the issue of the compatibility of family and work, in which it should be a matter of course to provide sufficient childcare. The € 305 million that the public hand has used in recent years are very well invested tax money. In this context, however, I would also like to introduce a group more rarely mentioned, namely the children. As everyone knows, children are very different, and sometimes they also need a lot of time to go through the right development for them. I can say that about my own daughters, because it was very different. One was a very fast, autonomous, and the other is much longer attached to my rock temple. This is sometimes also a reason why mothers – mostly mothers and not parents – go in part-time. Why is part-time so popular? - Because the parents, the mothers want to spend more time with their children. Unfortunately, the negative effects that part-time then has on the amount of living and also on the pension are often eliminated. I think that's exactly where we have to go. I do not want to live in a society in which part-time employment is defunct and women are forced into full-time employment so much with the argument that they would make the wrong decision at part-time. Nor do I want us to live in a society in which women are more easily driven into poverty by their decision for children. The four years of retirement benefit are positive for women's pensions. That is why it is still, and I say that quite consciously, to get a demand from the ÖVP women, these four years of pension-based for each child, regardless of the date of birth – simply and simply because it works in old age. Of course, we support the allocation to the Committee and the desire to discuss ideology-free and fact-based as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28032	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28053	Madam President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we are taking part in this proposal, and I would just like to remind you why we support this request for allocation, because Mrs Donk does not understand it. We therefore support this because it is very well removed in this area, namely in the social area, and because the poverty line, namely the women, is starting exactly in the field of labour policy. Who else but, please, is the Social Minister to judge this with his labour market policy? – Unfortunately, we cannot end this in the Equal Treatment Committee, which is a thing of impossibility. But I might also want to address a few practical examples from the world of a large group. In fact, I claim that not only is part-time employment to blame, but we need – and this is also set out in Plan A – corresponding childcare places so that women can bring more flexible working hours. But we also need equal treatment in pay. We started a pilot project at the Mondi company, which I also chair as the World Works Council. In the Headquarters in Vienna we have installed our own kindergarten, and this works perfectly. The women who are busy with us can also be employed part-time without further delay, but with a corresponding reward. Childcare places have also been created at the same time as the introduction of internal transparency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are examples that we can also overplay to other companies. I would like to point out - and this will also be our duty as a Member - that we are going to create laws that are pressing precisely into those groups, that discriminate against women who offer three hours of employment and pay only two and a half hours, because the rest of them have to travel in between. [[Abg. Schimanek: A scandal!]] No woman will be able to live from the money in the future. It will be our task to respond to the corresponding legislative developments and that is why it is well removed in the social sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28096	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the proposal is to take action against women's poverty. I would like to say that it is undisputed that every single person, whether woman or man at risk of poverty in Austria, is too much. It must be an order for policy to do something about it. However, it is worth mentioning in this respect too, I believe that the risk of poverty has been somewhat reduced in recent years. Of course, it's nice to hear that. I think that's why it's because many things are in the break: The women are simply better trained, they are also mostly active and they are back faster after the baby break in the job. I would like to mention one more aspect: Considering the whole, it turns out that child poverty is also very big. Almost a quarter of those at risk of poverty are young people under the age of 20 who live in families already affected by poverty, mostly with a single parent. So we see that there is more poverty in women. In recent times, there has been a great deal of political activity, such as the splitting of pensions: Children's education periods, which are justified, have been increased to seven years per child. Today, in the Government's work programme, we have again decided to take some measures in favour of women, which of course must be done. I agree: We must not stop, and we need further action to be taken in this area. the social partners are agreed, because only then – we have already heard it today – are they able to agree. It is important that they flow into laws – they will! – which can be implemented, because only then will the women benefit from it. In this sense, I also welcome the allocation to the Committee, so that it really is discussed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28162	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his 1410 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimous and therefore accepted. I accept Amendment 1667/A(E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[22:41:59]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 38/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleagues, on measures to increase the proportion of men in pedagogical occupations (1411, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28221	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28248	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Martina Schenk, you have tabled this request, this request is entitled. The teacher Nina Hover-Reisner, head of the Social Management Programme in Elementary Education at the FH Campus Vienna, says: It needs more men in kindergartens. Your request is more extensive: more men in kindergartens, more men in public schools! In the middle schools it looks better, in the gymnasia anyway. How can we achieve this? This has been discussed in our committee several times. The specialist says: Low pay, bad image, hardly any rise opportunities play a major role in the fact that men are not active in this profession. You're playing the big part, I'm convinced. Maybe it also brings more money when more men flock into this profession. We already had that in other areas. For example, when the male moved in, the nurse did not become the nurse, but then the caregiver, the diploma caregiver, came. The kindergarten teacher will follow the kindergarten education. I am convinced that we are coming to more men in this area, we need them in elementary education. We have jointly decided in our committee that we shall assign this request to the Committee on Education. Finally, I say, studies have also been carried out, there have been different surveys on this subject, including in Inns- bruck: This also scientifically underscores the need for children to have male reference persons, role models in certain age phases, because society looks just like it can't be expected that a child often meets women until the tenth year of life in the various educational institutions – under quotation marks – at all. This request, Mr Schenk, is justified, I hope we will come to a good end. If it's supposed to be a quota: Why not? - Even if she's not so popular.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28296	The next item is the vote on the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28318	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure each of us knows alone mothers or families in which there are only more female references, i.e. mother, grandma, aunt or neighbor. There is a very frequent need in children for male reference persons who can act as role models or can also act as a friction tree. The absence of male reference persons continues very often in kindergartens and in folk schools. In Upper Austria, for example, in 2015/16, 93 men were employed in kindergartens, cribs and hortens and 5 242 women. 2 229 men are opposed to 11 711 women at the currently employed national instructors. There was a dissertation on this subject – I think Mr Worm has mentioned this – in which it was found that it is not necessarily the lack of interest of young men: 60 percent of males say they want more men in kindergarten. Now the question is: Where does it come from that it does not appear in kindergartens and public schools? One essential factor is the strong opposition to male kindergarten teachers. On the one hand, the boys still think that men employed in kindergarten are not real men, on the other hand, parents and mothers also reject male kindergarten staff from fear that they would be a danger to children. There is, as it were, an ambivalence visible, on the one hand, male referents being considered to be development-relevant, on the other hand, they are, on the other hand, quite dangerous. What we've gotten back to an old problem field, the stereotypical role images that it's worth breaking up with. This is a social task. Politics can still initiate such great projects to increase the share of men in pedagogical professions as long as there are still pictures in the minds that show on the one hand softties and on the other hand pedophiles, this will become very, very difficult. In order to be able to break up these role models successfully, it takes positive and pre-childly experiences, and at the same time it is necessary to bring young people into contact with these typical female fields as early as possible. In Upper Austria, the way has been to use as many civil servants as possible in childcare facilities. This benefits the children, and it benefits the young men. In 2015/16, a total of 111 civil servants were employed in the Upper Austrian childcare facilities. The Department for Education has a special training department. In the course of training, the civil servants complete these training courses with training as a helper in an Upper Austrian childcare institution, which is also valid beyond civil service. That means that this would be a best-practice example, which could be discussed at the same time in the teaching committee – to which this is assigned.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28366	Mrs Mag. Aslan's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28387	Madam President. In general, I think the proposal is very important and very necessary. I think we are going to d’accord that there is agreement in the public and also in the technical debate on why we need more men in educational areas. There are, of course, dozens of different reasons for this and resulting benefits. It is certainly an advantage to break through these masculinity images, which lie in the choice of boys. I also think it is important to take into account the aspect of young people with migrant backgrounds and also the situation of young men who come from patriarchal or traditional family structures in which the saying of men is much more than that of women. It is precisely there that men as educators can do a much more effective boy and burrowing. On the other hand, we know why so few men are active in the educational field: The low income and poor working conditions are reasons why men do not trust to enter these feminized professions. I think that is a chance for the young people who trust this, to have more opportunities in their choice of profession. The assignment to the Committee should not yet be successful for us. I think success consists of three letters, and they give the word: do. I hope that something will finally be done in this area. The Scandinavians have not been talking about it for 30 years, and today we are still talking about an application that would not only be desirable but would be very necessary to implement it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28428	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28449	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my previous speakers for their support and support for this request. I would just like to say a few words to Mr Knes: We could have decided on these two proposals in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, because the resolution calls for both ministries to implement these demands. [[Abg. Schimanek: Exactly!]] So we could have done that there too! This results in my misunderstanding or in my partial misunderstanding for the assignment. Since everyone today welcomes the allocation so much and likes it very much, I am curious about how the request of Mr Berivan Aslan will be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. It will certainly be adopted, as will this request, namely mine, which will be adopted in the Committee on Education. [[Abg. Schimanek: You're confident, Martina!]] . I am actually looking forward to it, because there are two very important applications that should be submitted to a solution. Now briefly to the request: He has already been explained, he has been in the committee since 2013, and we have been discussing it for so long. This request also mentions a study that was still in progress at the time, a study by the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, which concerns the effect of men in infant pedagogy. This study shows the many benefits that my colleague, Mr Worm, has already mentioned. This study was then, 2013, current, now we have January 2017. It has already done something in the past year, but this change was marginal. Only around 2 percent of children’s facilities are male caregivers, male kindergarten teachers. That's really embarrassing little, that's far too little! The EU's aim is to: They all know – a male ratio of 20 percent for day care centres by 2020. Now I'm wondering, How is this goal to be achieved when we evaluate only 2018, 2019, whether the teacher service law has taken new action as to whether the measures put in place there have taken place? – This is again a very long period until there, in which nothing happens. The application is from 2013, the problems already exist forever, but then it will be pushed back to the long bank until 2018/2019. So that, I think, is not the right thing to do, nor is it the right way and, of course, cannot find my consent. It is because of the political will to implement it. I hope it will be implemented because it is really important, even the previous speakers have confirmed this, this study by the Ministry of Social Affairs also confirms this. I hope that we will come here to a positive solution, and above all to a quick solution, which will not wait for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28499	Mrs Mag. Grossmann's next word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28520	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we need more men in pedagogical professions, just as all industries should ideally be well mixed in gender. Especially in pedagogical However, it is also a matter of providing positive role models that are urgently needed. Of course, in order to be able to fulfil an arbitrary quota, as mentioned today, it also needs a corresponding number of trained educators. We must urgently address the causes of one-sided professional choice. What are the causes? – Of course, salary, working conditions, social conditions, job security play a major role. We see, however, especially with teachers and teachers that these conditions are better for themselves than in many other professions, so it has to be something else. It is, as has already been said today, certainly the basic attitude, the traditional role models that we must urgently break up, because we have a very, very small share of men, especially among kindergarten teachers. That's right. But also at the early decision to be made at the age of 14, 15 years when a young boy has to decide and also has to choose to overcome these traditional role models. This is a lot of what is required at this age. We also urgently need a reform of educational education in the elementary education field. But what we need most is a change of consciousness, and there we are all really required. Please accept this order to participate together in the break-up of these traditional role images. – In this sense, I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28562	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. Please, honourable Member, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28584	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all want more men in pedagogical professions – this has now come out quite clearly again in the debate – and especially in childhood education institutions, in kindergartens. I would like to say again, also to the danger that I will repeat, but you can't say it often enough: Three points outline what it is that so few men still work in these professions. One is that men are still considered weak, too sensitive, too soft, too few male, when they choose such a pedagogical job. So these are clearly role images or patterns that are in our minds – still, in 2017. Since it really needs campaigns, it needs men who are in these professions and act as role models, who are also brought in front of the curtain and thus become visible and express how great and great this job is. But it is also – and that has already been mentioned – about the value of this work. Educational professions do not receive the same recognition in our society as other professions; we have to work to make this picture change, because educators accompany us – if we think back or forward a little bit – in our lives a lot. Thirdly, it has to do with the payment – no question! Educational professions, especially in kindergartens, are not paying megagically brilliantly. The federal states are also called upon to raise the amount of payment. I think that would also be an incentive. In short: There were several initiatives by the Women's Ministers, by the Social Minister. Think of the Girls’ Day, the Boys’ Day. I have just met some technicians who participated in these FiT programmes, women in crafts and technology, girls’ days, 3rd place. Barbara-Prammer-Symposium. We must also succeed with the boys and with the men in the pedagogical professions. Let's stay on it! We'll hopefully succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28630	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report 1411 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept the motion for a resolution 38/A(E) to the Committee on Education. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:58:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-01-31-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00160_d7e28681	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 1961/A(E) to 1990/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 22.59 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
