ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3372	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 199. Meeting of the National Council. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 197. Debates of the European Parliament Meeting of 4. In October 2017, there were no objections at the Parliament's management. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Gessl-Ranftl, Kirchgatterer, Mag. Vavrik, Dr. Karlsböck, Neubauer, Ing. Schellenbacher and Dr. Winter. [[09:07:04]] I have received a speech from Mr Zinggl on business. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3418	Good morning! Madam President. I raise an objection to the agenda: The report on monument protection is to be debated at the end of today's sitting, and if I say at the end of today's sitting, I think that it will be more tomorrow, but at least very late at night. It is a very important task of Parliament to control, and I think the people have a right to know what is happening to historical monuments and cultural heritage. That is why I was concerned to initiate an investigation into this subject in the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. This committee has done so. As you know, the government parties have prevented me from participating in the last two meetings. I don't know why this happened, we're going to discuss it. There is now, at least, the report of this committee, and it should be extended exactly at the end of the agenda. I would like the report to be debated at the time of sending, now in the morning, and therefore ask you to amend the agenda and put it in place of the third item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3445	Mr. Dr. Zinggl! We have set the agenda in the presidential conference in consensus in this order. I am therefore not going to join your objections. In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall inform you that a debate will take place in accordance with Parliamentary practice after the current hour. I'll find it. In this debate, I limit speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers to three per club. For today's session, the Court of Auditors has announced that the President of the Court of Auditors is staying in Luxembourg for official reasons. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:10:07]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3488	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Climate crisis: Total refusal of the Federal Government threatens the future of Austria’ I welcome Mr Rupprechter. First of all, Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3519	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Today we Greens put back on content; you have the feeling that content in the election campaign is a bit disturbing. But we like to disturb, and today's theme is the biggest challenge of human history. It may be disturbing, but if you talk to the people, you can find out that they do not feel that disturbing at all. On the contrary, there are burning questions: How do I live in spite of climate crisis? How can I take part in the energy transition and take advantage of the opportunities? How will my job develop? Where do I have a chance at work in the future? – All of this has to do with the climate crisis and climate policy. The climate crisis is here. The 16 warmest years since the beginning of the records were in the 21st century. ==References====External links== We've got that 17. Year not yet completed. Over the next ten years, 50 million people will become climate refugees if we do not act now. We've seen it: Dryness, outages in agriculture, heat death, extreme weather events. In Austria, we are already paying € 1 billion for damage, for the consequences of the climate crisis, and it will become more if we do not act. We can't afford it any more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are the first generation to feel climate change in full, and we are the last generation that can do something about it. That is a great responsibility, and that is, we decide. The next five years will be crucial. Over the next five years, it will be decided whether or not the climate crisis will become a climate disaster. It is decided whether hundreds of millions of people will be able to move into climate change or not, and whether all people around the world, including in Austria, can participate in the energy transition and take advantage of the many opportunities that the energy transition brings, or whether we miss these opportunities. What did the Federal Government do? – It must be said that the Federal Government has a plan. She's got a plan for two years. For the biggest challenge of human history, this federal government has a plan for two years! This plan is: We continue as if the climate crisis did not exist. – That is not responsible, Minister of State! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have been in the Federal Government for 30 years and have not saved a single gram of CO2 in 30 years! – Your party, including in your term of office, has not saved a single gram of CO2. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Only four years!]] These are lost years that will cost us dearly. We cannot afford to do so, and even those affected by the climate crisis cannot afford to do so. All the beautiful words you hear – ankle fit, not forget about the future, I don't know what else – are dissolved by your omissions, by your responsible policy of recent years. It's been lost years that are expensive for us. We can't afford that and we have to change that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I also have a good news. The good news is: We can do something. Austria has as great potential as no other country. We have everything we need to face the climate crisis in order to create the green energy transition and to take advantage of its opportunities. I have requested 100 measures. The green club has requested 200 measures that have prevented you. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] For example, we have proposed abolishing the tax advantage of diesel and other fossil energies, at least €4 billion a year. You prevented that. What is your problem with the project to stop promoting fossil energy? I don't understand! We have also requested that the environmental budget, which you have greatly reduced, be raised again. Because of the cuts, the exchange of oil boilers for families can no longer be financed, and 7 500 jobs are lost. We want these 7 500 jobs to be restored, and we want families to be able to afford the oil boiler exchange. What's your problem with that? I don't understand! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We wanted to write the goals of the Paris climate agreement into the Austrian law to create for our companies the framework conditions they need to be able to invest and research in the right direction in the future and to be in front of the international movement of the green energy turnaround. I am very surprised, because in interviews write before the election They all enter and cross everywhere Yes – yes, we want it under Austrian law. Why didn't that happen? It was not until last week that you rejected the green request. The FPÖ is at least honest. The position of the FPÖ is beyond, but it is at least honest. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: There is applause for honesty!]] They have thus prevented and blocked the most important measures for the future. The next five years are crucial, I have already mentioned them. In the next five years, it will be decided whether the climate crisis will become a climate disaster, whether we use the opportunities of the energy transition or not. We will also decide on Sunday whether Austria will assume its international responsibility or not. Austria will assume great international responsibility with the EU Presidency next year. The most important climate conference in the coming years will take place next year during our Presidency. All the changes at EU level, as the future of the energy transition will look forward, will take place during our Presidency. Austria decides on Sunday whether we will be responsible for this great task or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also decide whether our companies are at the front of the energy transition or not. It is at stake whether there will be jobs of the future in China or in Europe, in Austria. China marches, China invests more in renewable energy than the EU. Today we decide whether in future the jobs will be, for example, in the automotive industry in China or in Europe. We Greens are fighting for companies to get the right framework conditions to be in the forefront of the energy transition in the future, and we will continue to fight for it. We fight for young people to get the right training in the future in order to get a good job even in 2050. We fight to ensure that all people can and can participate in the energy transition. We want to help them finally cut out their old oil boiler and switch to a renewable energy system. That's quiet. Climate-friendly living is sustainable, and only quiet living is also climate-friendly. We're fighting for families not to have to afford two cars. This is also a social responsibility. We want them to be able to change to public transport. We want for them, if they need a car, the electric car is cheaper than a diesel car. This is what we are deciding here in Parliament, through the framework conditions we are setting here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We decide whether the polluters pay for pollution or those who have nothing to do with it. We need a genuine environmental tax reform and a CO2 tax which is not, as with other measures, counter-checked by other environmental taxes. We need a genuine ecological tax reform, which also controls towards the environment. Climate policy affects all policies. Climate policy affects all specific living conditions. Austria decides. Let's decide well, because it's all at stake! In order for Austria to be able to make a good decision in the future, the next Federal Government certainly needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate Change, Energy and the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3626	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3647	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But no abusive speech!]] Mrs Brunner, I am quite right in giving you, the fight against climate change is one of the major challenges of our time, if not the greatest ever, and therefore a concern for politics, for the economy, for society, for all citizens. Sure, we're confessing to the goals of Paris. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, we have heard that a thousand times!]] We have actively negotiated the Paris Treaty, you know that. We are committed to limiting global temperature increase to significantly less than 2 degrees Celsius. [[Abg. Brunner: But there is a difference between confessing and doing!]] That is why we need decarbonisation, i.e. a gradual reduction of emissions to net zero by the middle of this century. [[Abg. Rossmann: measures!]] Austria has ratified the Paris Convention as a third country in the European Union. It wasn't a coincidence. We are completely behind it, and we want to make the decarbonisation a success story for Austria. The central task is to become highly energy efficient and to further develop domestic renewable energies. With this, we drive climate protection forward and prove that climate protection works without nuclear current. In the eco-social market economy, which has been successfully operating for 30 years, ecology and economy are no contradiction, on the contrary, they complement each other and create a win-win situation. We thus create jobs – green jobs. Economics, the environment and innovation go hand in hand in hand in Austria. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Please do not read from the leaf! Speak, think...!]] We have achieved a lot so far, Mr Pirklhuber, with a share of more than 70 percent renewable energy in Austrian electricity generation, we are European champions and even world champions! [[Abg. Brunner: We've heard that for 30 years!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] In total energy consumption, we are only one percentage point away from reaching our 2020 target of 34 percent. [[Abg. Rossmann: That's embarrassing!]] So we are in the top European field. The backbone of renewable energy supply in Austria constitutes hydropower in the electricity sector and biomass in the heat sector. Nearly half of the renewable energies are provided in Austria by biogenic energy sources. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Please speak freely, Minister! Maybe you can speak freely!]] Together with SPÖ and Greens, we have taken a very important step with the – not at all – small ecostrom novels, which was unanimously decided in the National Council. [[Abg. Brunner: We don't have at all...!]] This innovation will trigger additional investments within the meaning of the EU energy targets and the Paris climate agreement. This is also sustainable in economic policy and leads to additional value added and job creation in urban and rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian technology suppliers are world leaders in renewable energy, energy efficiency and green technology. Only an innovative domestic market secures us international success and forces green jobs. At the same time, we must strengthen security of supply and become independent of coal, oil and nuclear imports, i.e. stimulate investment in our domestic energy system and reduce barriers. Ladies and gentlemen Green, apologies, Mrs Brunner – all the Greens have been addressed – to act against fossil energy, but at the same time to prevent projects necessary for the energy transition is contradictory and shortsighted. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now a short review of our 2020 climate targets: Austria has significantly exceeded EU climate targets in the last three years. We have implemented the goal of achieving our objectives without the purchase of pollution certificates. [[Abg. Brunner: Two years for...!]] We have even significantly undermined the objectives. With regard to the 2030 targets, we fully support EU decisions, which means at least 40 percent greenhouse gas reduction across the EU compared with 1990. Austria will, of course, make its contribution to this with a negative 36 percent target compared to 2005. Our emissions have fallen continuously since 2005, with strong economic growth and growing population numbers. Austria is well below the EU average in relation to GDP in the EU at 5, that is significantly below the EU average. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We want to get even better, and we need to pursue innovative approaches in the various sectors. We need a mobility turnaround in order to achieve our 2020 and 2030 targets. We are already making a very important contribution to this with the instruments of my department – for example with the initiative climate-actively mobile – and customised consulting services. In spring, together with the transport sector and the automotive trade, we adopted a comprehensive action package on electric mobility. Today, Austria is the leader in the approvals of e-vehicles. We already have an increase of 45 percent on the new registrations compared to the previous year. This shows that our package for e-mobility works with a volume of €72 million, not only for e-cars: We promote vehicles up to the e-bike and the e-bus. I have so far talked about targets and activities regarding the reduction of emissions and the strengthening of renewable energy sources. At the same time, however, we also know that climate change cannot be stopped from today to tomorrow. We therefore also need an effort in the area of adaptation, the climate change adaptation strategy. As the first country, we have adopted such an adjustment strategy, which we continue to implement. We invest €200 million a year in protecting against natural hazards in order to mitigate the effects of weather extremes. I was able to address only a few examples here in a short time, but show them: We have achieved a great deal in the climate, and this can really be seen. If you misrepresent the electoral condition, that does not correspond to the facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brunner: For 30 years...!]] We need to do more, and we will do more by building on the history of Austrian success by consistently continuing our path that has been taken so far, by working together on our future – in the sense of responsibility for creation, for our children, for our grandchildren, for an Austria worth living! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3877	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes for each speaker and each speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3898	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I should like to repeat what I said last week in the debate on the Climate Change Act: Climate policy and climate protection are an important concern for us, are a central concern of the present to preserve the planet for the future. [[Abg. Brunner: We have not made a single decision! No decision...!]] Mr Federal Minister, with everything you have done now: For your part, the climate and energy strategy was already promised in autumn of last year for the early summer. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: drawers! She's in the drawer, he said!]] In the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, you have told us that it is difficult because several ministries are dealing with the strategy. In principle, however, you already have to bear the responsibility for coordinating this strategy. I would like to ask you once again in which drawer your ministry currently rests the climate and energy strategy and whether you still intend to bring it to light quickly. [[Abg. Lopatka: You have always been objective!]] With regard to the allegation of a total refusal by the Federal Government on climate protection, I would like to say here that BMVIT has already worked intensively on measures in recent years. [[Abg. Brunner: In what drawer are they then?]] In March, the Energy Research Strategy was presented with the aim of pursuing the investment leadership in energy technologies. The public sector energy research expenditure – of which 75 percent are located at BMVIT – has been almost quadrupled over the last ten years. BMVIT has also recently launched an action plan for clean transport so that there is no further time for the implementation of the climate and energy strategy. The aim is to meet climate commitments at least in the transport sector. The BMVIT has also pushed electrical mobility as a very concrete alternative to fossil combustion engines. Austria is the EU leader in the re-entry of e-vehicles and among the top 3 in the charging infrastructure. We are also committed in principle and quite clearly to the expansion of public transport. So, from our point of view, from the point of view of social democracy, what is to be done in the next few years? – We need an efficient and innovative energy policy. Energy costs act as a location factor, but the energy must also be manageable for households and our energy system must be future-proof. The gas reduction has already been addressed. It is to be achieved with a massive expansion of renewable energy and with a cost-effective eco electricity promotion – we want to trigger a 40 billion € volume of investment and create 45,000 new jobs – with an energy efficiency package that aims to increase the savings target to 1.5 percent, with an increased promotion of thermal renovation, with a promotion of conversion in heating and hot water systems and in the field of electric mobility. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This lack of emotion corresponds to your practice: Many lip confessions and no implementation!]] A large number of measures will be necessary. We from Social Democracy would also want to be more serious in the implementation of these measures in all future governmental constellations. To take up an example of my colleague Bernhard, whom he brought last week: He referred to social democracy as co-pilots of the ÖVP in the field of climate and environmental policy. Dear colleague Bernhard, it may not be quite appropriate in a climate debate to present a rally example, but if the copilot says and the driver does not follow the copilot's announcement, he will fly out of the curve at some point, and we want to avoid this here in the sense of the Austrian location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e3990	The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4011	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The next euphoric environmental politician!]] It is a clear task for us to comply with the obligations of the Paris Convention – you know that – for several reasons. Climate change is noticeable to all of us, although on some cold autumn days like last week many sarcastic feel, climate change means warming, but you don't feel anything about it. It must be said that climate change has different effects that we feel. It is not only about warming around 2 degrees Celsius, which can and has such dramatic effects, but in reality, climate change means a massive and long-term change in our weather. Climate change means that weather can occur. We have been able to observe this for years, and it makes us in many areas: these long dry periods, these droughts and on the other hand these massive floods and heavy rain events, the hurricanelike storms over Austria, about Europe that has not yet existed a few years ago. These are all fixed signs, and these data have been recorded scientifically for over 100 years. The change is impressively detectable and also documented. The melting of our glaciers is a visible sign for all those who move a little in nature and observe this phenomenon. That is why, as has been said, this Paris Convention is a clear task for us, even if it is difficult for some to imagine, because the dimensions in which we speak in this context are not real to many. We often speak in abstract numbers, for example of tons of CO2 savings. In reality, no one can imagine a tonne of CO2, but these are the measuring values with which we work. We must therefore try to make this clear to people in other ways. The fact that we were not just involved in the Paris climate agreement is documented: Mr. Federal Minister Rupprechter led a working group and made a significant contribution to his positive conclusion. [[Abg. Brunner: What applications did you make?]] Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] However, this conclusion means serious changes in all areas of life, because this Convention, in short, agreed that we will leave all fossil energy sources by 2050 at the latest – that is, no supply of oil, natural gas, coal and all that is related to these three positions. This means a substantial change in all our areas of life. [[Abg. Brunner: And that's how it fits? And what about it?]] If the Greens and some others believe that we have not yet achieved the objectives efficiently enough, then there are, of course, some data that can be used to disprove this: Since 1990, our emission values have fallen, although economic performance has increased by more than 60 percent over this period. [[Abg. Brunner: In the program of Sebastian Kurz stand, not above the level of 1990! Read your own selection program! That's a joke!]] Economic performance has increased by more than 60 percent, yet emissions have fallen from 2005 to 2015, even by more than 15 percent. What, then, is to be done now? What's the clear mission? – The change in energy supply and thus the change in our way of life will be so serious that we can only take these steps hand in hand, together with the people, together with the economy. What happens in many places just before the election? – You want numbers, you want to set data. However, in many cases these are not justified. We looked at your requests and checked them: It is often easy to assume, there are often simply no links, for example to economic performance, or the contexts are not comprehensible. This is not the task now. [[Abg. Brunner: What applications did you make?]] If we now set targets that are not consistent with all areas of life, with all sectors covered by it – private energy supply, economic, industrial and industrial, then we export this climate protection. That is to say, it will move away from businesses, it will migrate the industry. This cannot be the objective, but we must continue to do so in a balanced way in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, our mission is to present these objectives together with the people, with the companies. It is, I tell you quite honestly, about such serious changes – it is being worked intensively on at all levels – that this work will certainly not be interrupted because of a choice. The climate change targets will soon be presented and further processed so that we can achieve them efficiently by 2050. Two more points: First of all, I would like to remind you of the small eco-strom novels. To my colleague from the SPÖ, whom I do not see at the moment If he was already a copilot, he did not say 15 times to the pilot: [[Abg. Bernhard: Feichtinger is his name!]] A curve! or: Give gas! but then he said 15 times: Get on the brake! – That too must be said. [[Abg. Brunner: Just like the ÖVP in the Öktromgesetz!]] If we are talking about expanding electromobility and other sectors, we know we also need hydropower. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! How many projects – gentle expansion projects – have you tried to prevent in recent years? - It can't work like this! We need a mix, we need reliability, and we will achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4148	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4196	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I start with the measures taken by the Freedom Party for Climate Change at a glance: Development of solar, water, wind and bioenergy plants, attracting environmentally friendly fuels, exit from energy generation through coal streaming, consistent rejection of nuclear power, attracting the thermal renovation of the Austrian housing stock to reduce energy needs, expansion and adaptation of public transport needs, introduction of an Austrian ticket for all public transport connections, relocation of freight transport to rail. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is very important! It would also be important...!]] Mrs Brunner, if you call it 'on the other hand', I do not know what you mean by environmental policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brunner: You know exactly...!]] With all personal appreciation to you, but it is beyond what you announce here! An exact example: They prevent the hydropower in Graz – that's beyond! They prevent hydropower in Graz. These are your measures, and that is beyond us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the direction of the Federal Government: Mr. Federal Minister Rupprechter, we all know that the resort you held during this legislative period was not your favorite resort. They have tried to take action, but when I look at what applications we have made in this GP – exit from the Euratom Treaty: rejected; Protection of the water in Austria: rejected; opposed to coal electricity: rejected – then I have to say: At last, we need to put in place attractive measures to ensure the chance of Austria's national climate protection. That must be our way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you, too, for these measures, which we are calling for, on 15 May. October to give your voice and thus ensure – as it also requires a strong freedom of speech – that these national measures can be implemented, which is very, very important to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One point I always put into my speech is emissions trading. [[Abg. Brunner: But you don't know each other!]] That is an essential point. Emissions trading is this economic location, and economics is extremely at risk. It does not bring any environmental policy action in Europe, throughout the world and is only a redistribution of funds that does not contribute to environmental protection in the final effect and constitutes an economic place-of-the-art measure for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point is e-mobility, which is of course very important as an alternative drive form. But we all know that more CO2 will be emitted in the production of a Tesla battery than if I'm going through the area for eight years with a diesel vehicle. Therefore, you also need to send alternative drive forms into the pipeline. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, I think, a necessary measure and a task for the Federal Government and the Minister responsible. Now, of course, we can promote, promote and promote in this area. That's good, too, but: On the one hand, we need the power demand and on the other hand also alternative forms of drive, which may be guaranteed by hydrogen or other means. In this sense: For a good, fair, fair environmental policy, there is on the 15th. October only one voice – and that is the one for the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4308	Mr Willi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4330	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Almost on the day exactly a year and a half ago, they signed the Paris climate agreement for Austria and then said the sentence: “Now we have to live up to the agreement.” And today, as an environmental minister, as the main responsibility for climate protection, you will read down the entire speech, talk about responsibility for creation, and your main statement is: We confess to the goals. Mr Minister, you are primarily responsible for climate protection and you could have done something for a year and a half. You've done nothing, you're sitting in the deck chair and you're saying, Yes, we confess to the goals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] These targets for 2020, Minister, are easy to achieve. They are based on the ever-time high of emissions in Austria of 2005. We have not achieved a gram of savings compared to 1990. That's your responsibility! We haven't reached anything, we're on the same level. It's a blamage! [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: This is just wrong! Less than 40 percent...!]] Last night, Minister, your boss said: We stand for change, and a chancellor has to lay the bar high. – Where have you been in the last one and a half years of change? Where did you put the latte? They leaned back and said: In any case, we are committed to the objectives of the climate agreement. That's too little, Minister! We are the first generation to feel the impact of climate change and the last to do something about it. You didn't do anything. They've been sitting in the hall, and they're just watching what's going on. I ask you: What's going to be You tell your granddaughter once they say: Grandpa, you were the Minister of Environmental Protection, Minister of Climate Change at the time! What did you do? [[Abg. Steinhauser: He will say he was a Minister of Agriculture!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] Then maybe you'll tell me: Yes, I helped to export pigs from Austria to South Korea and to Japan and so on. [[Abg. Steinhauser: He will say that he was a Minister of Agriculture!]] As your eyes are glistening when it comes to pig exports to East Asia, for which the pigs have been raised with soya from South America. These are the successes that you, Mr Minister, celebrate, but when it comes to the essentials of saving our planet so that we can all survive as a population, then sit in the chair and watch. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, we had a survey in Parliament on climate crisis. The avant-garde of the Austrian scientists spoke there and said one thing: We've researched everything, we know everything, we finally have to get into implementation. - You heard that too. Only: Where is the implementation? This transformation of our society into renewable energy is a huge opportunity in terms of jobs. As my colleague, Mr Brunner, has already said, the crucial questions are first: Do we create it by means of the right measures to avert the disaster? Are we making use of the opportunities of the climate crisis in Austria, or are we leaving these opportunities to others, to the Chinese and so on? We as the Greens are clearly on the side of Austria in this matter. We want to take advantage of the opportunities here. We want to create jobs here. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: The election bus of Lunacek...!]] – Mr Minister, everything is useless! Their confessions to any goals without actions are worth nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your signature of New York under the Paris climate agreement is worth nothing because you did nothing. Now I'm coming to my area, the traffic. Transport is the area where there was a 60 percent increase in greenhouse gases. We all know how environmentally friendly, climate-friendly transport could be. You only have to look at the federal states where greens rule, Vienna, Vorarlberg, Tyrol: a cheap public-year ticket. What are people doing? – They assume they're going to change. We expand the cycle paths, we create infrastructure for environmentally friendly transport. These are the recipes of the future. [[Abg. Schimanek: Well, in Kufstein? That's where the councillor let us all down!]] If I'm already with the oil, with petrol and diesel: You've come to know that you clean up with the diesel privilege. You have not enforced it, although you are in the ÖVP Economic Party, although you know it would have been necessary. Mr Minister, you have failed for a long time! [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] Your balance sheet is so weak that you even have to read down the three pages you have written for today. It's blamable. It's a farce for Austria. The only thing we can do now is to choose the greens on Sunday, so that this planet has opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4466	The next speaker is Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4488	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The topic is “Climate Crisis: Total refusal of the Federal Government threatens the future of Austria". I was very excited to note that the previous speakers, at least most of them, just read down their texts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] I didn't feel that much was understood here. I would like to say two things: For all that we now hear from the new ÖVP on the one hand and also from my colleague Feichtinger on the other, what we could do better in the next period, one would have had the chance since 2013. [[Abg. Lugar:... can only read down!]] Since 2013, you have had a majority in this House and could have implemented all these measures. Nothing of that happened! Mr. Rupprechter has to read his text, just starts, he can hardly get a smile, because he notices how much he's driving us around the nose, while Mr. Feichtinger talks about he was just the copilot and the driver didn't listen. The copilot had the big party in his back. Nothing happened. You've been driving us around for four years with nothing just on your nose. On the content of the Committee's work: We have tabled a whole series of requests, requests which we could have decided as a Parliament that would have been useful and would not have even cost anything, applications which have long been in the drawers and which at times would have strengthened the economic location. None of that happened. What's particularly exciting about that? . The tension is that if these applications are postponed in committee, the parties ÖVP and SPÖ do not even bother to read out the application or the law that would have included this request so to speak. Either it is intellectually lacking capacity or it is absolutely missing interest, which is why one has put forward notices over the last four years without actually treating the subject. I want to take out a few topics so that you know what I'm talking about: On the one hand, for example, we have put forward proposals on the subject of spatial planning. That would be a subject for which we have to take relatively little money, but can actually achieve a strong benefit. Why is spatial planning so important? – It is currently spread across all nine federal states. In other words, in each federal state there is a strategy that is not agreed with the neighbouring state and not at all with the federal government. However, this approach leads to a dispersal. The separation, in turn, means that we have more traffic in our country, which means more emissions. Neither the ÖVP nor the SPÖ wanted to discuss the content at all. It is even more exciting that the government programme for 2008 to 2013 – also SPÖ and ÖVP – has set itself the goal of limiting the use of only 2.5 hectares of surface per day. Nothing has happened so far, the request from NEOS has been postponed. In 2010, the Ministry of the Environment set itself the goal of reducing this consumption of land, and I also postponed a request from the Ministry of the Environment without any serious explanation. Then, next – also very important – we had the strong lip confessions of SPÖ and ÖVP to the field of renewable energy. How do we want to make the move? How do we want to trigger investment? How do we support research? How do we support the economic location? To this end, we have submitted applications from the increase in the quota in energy research to a broken eco-stromnovel – this has been negotiated by Mr Schellhorn – and SPÖ and ÖVP are only standing on the brake. Again, either fairness or intellectual capacity in the committee has failed to give us a serious answer as to why we do not even want to give our requests a proper debate. It's getting even thicker: The coal streaming – that is, what we want to get out of – we are still subsidising with tax money today. A request for this was made several times a year by several opposition parties, including us NEOS. Nothing ever happened. We are pulverizing tax money for things for which we are still paying punishment afterwards. That's where you touch your head. SPÖ and ÖVP, drivers and copilot, have had no ambitions in four years, but really no ambitions. Who believes what they want to do in the future? I would like to conclude with something that is very important to me: I have made almost 80 applications. No single request has been accepted and no more than five of the 80 applications have been debated. You can only say: There is absolute disinterest in the field of environmental policy. Those who want a change must not believe those people who only scatter sand into our eyes. My final sentence, Madam President, is also addressed to Mrs Brunner – my colleague, Mr Schellhorn, will later address our CO2 tax more precisely and explain why we have NEOS between the words of the economy and the environment. And doesn't stand the green oder –: We create jobs, we don't destroy our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4531	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4553	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Christian Kern was asked yesterday in a chat forum, which he felt was too short in this election campaign on topics. He said: climate change, climate policy, which Austria should do. – There are also a number of approaches in Plan A, very innovative, forward-looking approaches. I see this as well and am very grateful to the Greens for this current hour, because I believe that climate policy is really one of the major challenges of the future and addresses our responsibility, both to future generations and to many other billions of people in the world who suffer from climate warming. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's a man-made climate heating that we're experiencing there. Even if it does not yet believe the FPÖ, it is not an invention of China or of others, but it is the result of a carbon-centered economy of the north, of which we of course also feel the effects, but particularly bad the people who live in the south have to endure the massive effects. [[Abg. Schimanek: What the hell is this?]] As an example, I would like to take Ethiopia: Ethiopia is a priority country of Austrian development cooperation. There the extreme weather events have occurred significantly in recent years. For example, this has led to an immense erosion by heavy rain, which, in turn, causes fields to be washed away, that the possibilities of planting seed are getting smaller and smaller, that at a very high frequency there are meteorological phenomena such as strong rain, hail, drought, which destroys life's basis of life, that feed plants can no longer grow, which has a devastating effect on the flocks that keep people there. It also goes hand in hand with the fact that people themselves no longer have food, no way to farm, sell livestock or come to water. All of this is putting wrong pressure on people. Especially in a country such as Ethiopia, where 80 percent of the inhabitants depend on agriculture, many are forced to leave their villages. Of the 103 million inhabitants of Ethiopia, over ten million depend on food aid. In addition, another three-quarters of the million refugees from other countries have found refuge in Ethiopia. But it is also a global phenomenon. In 2016 we had the strongest El Niño effect in the last 50 years. We achieved relatively much success with the Millennium Development Goals with which we had undertaken to drastically reduce the number of people who starved. We were well on the road, especially in Asia, the number of hungry has fallen significantly. Since last year, however, we have seen – and this is a lot of climate – that the number of hungry people has been increasing for the first time for the first time in ten years. There are currently 815 million people in the world who go to bed hungry every night, which is about 11 percent of the world’s population. In particular, this malnutrition affects about 155 million children who are disturbed in their development, or 613 million women of childbearing potential who suffer from extreme anemia. It is also assumed that only because of climate change, about 20 million people are forced to leave their homes each year. All of this requires a very great effort by the international community to alleviate the need – whether through humanitarian aid or through development cooperation, whether by strengthening the resilience of people and economic and rural structures, whether through the World Food Programme. All of these are areas in which Austria does not boast because it would have set up particularly large activities. Not only do we do too little in this end-of-pipe policy, we also do far too little to ensure offensively and make a climate policy that truly meets international commitments such as the Sustainable Development Goals, Paris or also EU agreements. Nicholas Stern told us over ten years ago that if we do everything we can to limit global warming to 2 degrees, we have to spend about 2% of the gross global product. On the other hand, if we do not do anything, it will be 20 percent at the end of the century that we will have to spend to cope with the consequences of climate change. We have already heard of the sum totality of the Minister for the Environment. I would like to add the following: For example, in the government programme, we called on us to ensure that we conclude trade agreements that address climate policy. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] This is not the case, and the Austrian commitments to the Green Climate Fund are more than poor. To conclude: The SPÖ is a party with an international claim. We want to put international solidarity into policy and live. A voice for the SPÖ on Sunday also helps Austria to regain the international role we already had in the world. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4614	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4636	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, the election campaign continues in this current hour, of course. The Greens are using this last hour to re-enter the election campaign in their minds, but unfortunately this is the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] Mr Willi, you know, I appreciate you, but I find this abuse and insult that we have repeatedly heard over the past few weeks and months, especially from you here to the Federal Minister, inappropriate, and that is exactly what people do not want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should exchange here in this place; of course, we will not have the same opinion everywhere, but we should always remain objective – and at this level, I want to return to the subject matter. [[Abg. Brunner:... Opinion...!]] You may not like to hear it, but Austria is an environmental model country and we are also well placed in climate protection; I can prove it with a few figures. If you look at emissions per economic performance on the basis of an examination by the Federal Environment Agency, you can see that Austria is ranked six from a total of 28 EU countries. [[Abg. Brunner: greenhouse gases!]] We are also very well positioned in the international, worldwide comparison: Of the emissions per economic performance, about half of us have compared to the USA and only 25 percent compared to China. [[Abg. Brunner: That's not the point!]] When you look at what has happened over the past 27 years: Austria has more than a million inhabitants, a million more households, GDP has increased by 61 percent over these 27 years, and yet it has succeeded in keeping emissions at about the same level and coming to a complete decoupling. I can assure you that Austria will also meet the 2020 and 2030 climate targets, even in the light of the fact that many other countries have long passed by the partially ambitious, partly less ambitious climate targets of the Paris climate agreement. Also a number that you may not want to hear: Between 2005 and 2015, our total emissions fell by 15 percent, and this is a great success, which we have attributed on the one hand to the effective measures taken by the Federal Government but on the other hand also to the great achievements that the Austrian economy has shown, above all, in this area. [[Abg. Brunner: You find out exactly the one part where it happens...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We all know that the Climate Change Act is a good framework for sustainable growth in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. But you also know, Mrs Brunner, that we need an appropriate framework that must come from the EU, and this is not yet available; this will happen in the next two or three months. [[Abg. Brunner: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We need these framework conditions for the Effort Sharing, and then, of course, the Climate Change Act will be in a similar way; what you are planning is cutting the horse from behind. [[New call for tender Brunner]] In the field of energy, further action is needed. There has been a lot of success with the – not so – small ecostromnovel, but of course we need another step, a large ecostrom novel, which will be one of the first steps we have to take in the new government. It has been said that there are opportunities, and I would like to break a lance for the domestic economy: We are already taking advantage of these opportunities. What you may not know – this is demonstrated by a study by Economica –: Austria is in a ranking of all 28 EU countries and EFTA countries in terms of inventiveness in the field of energy efficiency to rank two and worldwide. This achievement is not honoured enough. As a small country, Austria has a great opportunity to use this lever in the field of energy efficiency; this lever can be used much more than with isolated energy efficiency measures in the country. That's where we're going. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that our Federal Minister Rupprechter is a guarantee that we will continue to achieve climate change objectives in the future, and we will succeed. Finally, because the subject of transport has also been raised, I would like to say that we have a big discussion in the sub-country in the Kufstein area, as well as in other regions, regarding freedom of movement. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, I don't believe it!]] Unfortunately, in the past legislative period, it has not been possible to convince the coalition partner that we can bring about a solution here. [[Abg. Schimanek: You could have supported...!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: What the hell is this?]] Of course, there have also been requests on the part of the opposition, but it is, Mrs Schimanek, incorrect that, as you claimed yesterday in your election campaign, today we could have decided on a vignette exemption; you know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] Perhaps you've messed up something in the heat of the battle, the election fight, but what I feel is bad... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4813	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4829	What I think is bad is that you do not yet know the Rules of Procedure, although after the election you may take the position of the President of the National Council – the posts are apparently already given at the FPÖ. [[New call for tender Schimanek]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Inconceivable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Look Please accept the Rules of Procedure so that you can no longer tell anything like this and prepare yourself for this function! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4891	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e4913	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All listeners! I turned on the “Time in Figure 2” last night, because I wanted to listen to the evaluation of the confrontation of the top politicians one last time before the election, and there was a very interesting topic for today’s current hour, namely that the Earth could have become an ice ball almost 300 million years ago if we had not been really lucky. [[Call:]] There's the first thing – since the title of today's current hour is: ‘Climate crisis: Total refusal by the Federal Government threatens the future of Austria’ – to say: Please, you have to think out a little beyond the edge of the plate, because Austria alone will not be able to save the world climate or change to the positive. If I – and I think that is recognized everywhere – it is assumed that the world will then become cooler when we come back under 240 ppm, parts per million, then I also have to assume that this has already happened several times in the course of world history by changing celestial mechanics. The question here is: What can man do to prevent us from accelerating and slowing down these circumstances? That's a very important thing. According to the latest calculations, we still have about 1,500 years to the next intermediate time, and the Quintessence is: Is man able to change the climate for so long that this intervening period will not occur? That's the big question, because one thing is clear: Finally, it will get cold, and of course we do not want to. [[Call:Ui]] All of us here do not want to be affected, but we can do a lot to ensure that during the period when people live here on this globe, there are good opportunities for this. [[Call the Greens.]] Where are the first problems? – The first problems lie in increasing the potential of people. On the one hand, where the social standards are high, the ecological footprint is particularly large, negative, and on the other hand, where the population is so large, there is no attempt to stop and stop the currents that then come where you have a lot of consumption. About 50 years ago, there were 3.5 billion people, and now there are 8 billion. This will be the challenge of the future, no one will believe that in 100 years we will be able to feed 16 billion people on this earth, let alone after all the impact of climate policy. Finally, the question arises: What can our governments do to ensure that we are able to achieve a positive living volume in the future? That means in the clear text: We must try to bring all the sensible governments to an ecological economic policy. Because today's e-mobility was addressed: I have already talked about what it would mean if we were to change the entire road mobility to e-mobility. Do you know how much electricity we need there? – Yes, but that corresponds to melach twice, i.e. 1,600 megawatts that we need in addition. [[Abg. Brunner: 15 percent!]] [[Abg. Cook: 15 percent more!]] – Yes, how to get from Is that what you're doing? Calculate these 1,600... – Mrs. Brunner, I'm trying to act positively, not negative. [[Abg. Brunner:... build, simple!]] I believe that it will not be possible without future intermediate energy sources. And if we look at the entire eco-current history to see that we want as much solar energy as possible, then we need transfer lines; without them it won't go, that's quite clear once. So we have our hands to do together to develop this strategy for the future; Austria alone will not do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5008	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5030	Existing blockers and preventers! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Brunner.]] Appreciated environmental movements in front of the televisions and at the audience gallery! I would like to make a point that may also convince our Minister: Unfortunately, those who have followed the press report today must note that Europe is the lowest wine production, the lowest wine harvest since the Second World War, and the main reason for this is climate change, climate change. – If this is not an argument for the ÖVP, I do not know any more; that is really difficult with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When I started to engage in 1995, one of my first measures – at the time as a student representative – was to introduce the free-trade networked thinking, and we spent a year dealing with climate warming. If you look at the figures of the time and the figures of today, you can see that absolute inactivity is to be noted – and the hot air produced here today is still an additional burden for climate warming here in the hall. [[Abg. Steinhauser: He was good!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you said: 70 percent renewable in the electricity sector. - Yeah, yeah, great, we're good on the road! In the 1970s we also had about 70 percent renewable in the electricity sector. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] That means you say: Hurra, Austria is as good as 1970! Well, if this is your current account, I have to take note of that. We want more from the green side, we want 100 percent renewable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What has this federal government – no matter how it may be called – carried on or did not carry on? – She has halved the ticket charge very specifically in the last legislative period. How to sell this as a climate measure Please explain to someone else. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, Now, if you light coal and make electricity out of it, you'll get the coal tax refunded by the state. 40 million € tax bonus will come back if you get electricity from coal. The Greens' requests, my requests and also those made by Mr Brunner, are in Parliament, but have only been postponed and not really dealt with. That would be a measure where you can say: In contrast to lighting coal and making electricity out of it, one should at least turn to a modern state in 2017; it really can't be. From my point of view, humanity has a general problem. We know that natural gas and oil will go out relatively early, but after that some might come to the idea of excavating and inflaming the coal – and this is urgent to prevent. We have already heard of electromobility today, since Austria is quite good on the road in some areas; I do not want to talk about that at all. I set up many initiatives there twelve years ago, and in my home country, Carinthia, we have the best charging network. Electromobility means 15 percent more electricity consumption if we do it within ten years, 1.5 percent each year – so if we don't get it anymore, I don't know how to help either. 1.5 percent more electricity consumption through electric mobility, which we can easily recover through efficiency measures. I'll put it another way: A square meter photovoltaic means 1,000 kilometers of car driving a year – with energy from the sun. This is possible and belongs only to implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another topic is the construction of housing: We mean, with renovation, also by building lots of houses – low energy standard, passive house standard – we want to relieve people. Nothing happened. Already in the previous legislative period, a residential offensive, residential investment bank, whatever, has been announced – that has not been implemented. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – Yes, there is somewhere on the paper, but de facto didn’t happen what you announced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] But this is about creating exactly the Green Jobs we are all talking about and of which we all dream to a certain degree. That would be very important and very crucial. Good news today: The renewables are marketable. When we discuss nuclear power today: Fortunately, we have an action against Hankley Point; the Greens made a request at the time, 2014, and we have, in this body, gratefully taken a unanimous decision. The UK nuclear power plant Hankley Point is not marketable, it needs massive, distorting promotions. The same applies to Paks in Hungary. In fact, nuclear power is dead; it is in the final stages, and it is currently plunging for state subsidies and subsidies. This is the good news, and we should now try to combat and not allow these state subsidies, at all levels, in Austria and at European level. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5122	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5143	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Finally, of course, it is replicated again, for example, on Mr Höfinger from the ÖVP. I don't know, most likely it didn't notice in here, but what did he say? – There are various interests that need to be weighed down, so we cannot decide now. It's a fact, unfortunately. You probably ask some experts from the social partners how a climate change can now be brought about. That's heartlessness. There are still some who believe on the 16th. October the switch is put around and then you simply prove courage. - No, that's the prolongation of what you're doing now. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Reverse it will be!]] That is what Mr Höfinger said clearly and clearly: We need to weigh and we need to discuss something here, the interests of the left and the right still need to be balanced. I think that is the wrong approach; also that of the Green Group: They would rather tax, and they would rather prohibit, but tax also means directing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] [[Abg. Brunner: Yes, tax means...!]] We want to implement the 'polluter pays' principle – including her – but we also want it, and you have criticized it, neutralised it. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes, we too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] To this end, one could say: Supposed, colleague Brunner, you would jump over your shadow and buy you an incredibly big SUV – assumed; we accept it once – then the polluter principle applies. [[Abg. Brunner: I wouldn't do it!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Intervening calls from MEPs Kogler, Lichtenecker, Steinhauser and Walser]] You can even put it in the garage and don't have to drive it with it; but if you drive it, you have a higher tax. [[Abg. Brunner: No, no!]] The principle of this tax system, our CO2 tax, is yes: It needs a steering effect, and this is an additional wage-additional cost reduction measure. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] – Yes, that is the general principle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Our energy policy principles are based on three points: It must be safe, so security of supply must be guaranteed; it must be economic, and this is important for industry, for the industrial location. In the present case, it is true that even high-tech companies such as UPM in Laakirchen, which has large paper machines, are not released in respect of certificates, although they have the best plants. They're being punished. And you can't control it if you don't want to, or you can control it, but you don't, because you have to ask the social partners, the Chamber of Commerce, what you want to do and what you don't want to do. In so far as: But it must also be sustainable, that is, one needs a principle that also takes this into account. Although we cannot delete or rationalise the motorways, we must tax those who drive a lot, and we must move ahead with the polluter principle. [[Abg. Brunner: This is what we have in our model!]] At the same time, however, we delete the NoVA. [[Abg. Brunner: Exactly!]] - Oh, that's it! – Yes, that’s the difference! [[Abg. Brunner: That's the difference!]] You want an extra tax, we want to relieve – that's the difference! Again: I believe that we should highlight the self-responsibilities that, in the course of this change, we must also create so-called Green Jobs in the context of this energy policy and climate change, and start a labour market initiative here. That means, and that's what I'm going to say at the end of the day If you look at this panel, you see, in 1991, the Sweden pattern country has managed to turn the energy policy in the... – Yes, I'll explain it to you; but the curves you know. [[Put a table on the speaker’s desk, on which a chart can be seen under the title “Real Growth and Emission: Compare Austria and Sweden”]] [[Call to the Greens: You can't read that!]] Between 1990 and 2015, Sweden's growth was 68 percent and Austria's 58 percent, which is still close to each other, but Austria's emissions increased by 6 percent, while Sweden experienced a 25 percent reduction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] There you were simply brave enough, just like in Norway or British Colombia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] All these countries have already changed to the 'polluter pays' principle and are aimed at contributing accordingly. Each nation state can contribute to this. You should remember not asking the social partners but being courageous! But you're not, because you need too much in the hinterland! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I believe that we need a system here that is safe, economically, competitive and for companies and yet sustainable for the next generation. That is why we need this CO2 tax, which is therefore also effective for the next generation, for climate and for the environment. So we need a principle that is unique and, above all, self-responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5359	Next word reported: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5380	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a panel with a photo of a container ship on the speaker's desk.]] I should like to add the following to the warmness of commenting on this subject: Minister! I call the reading practice! You said it so passionately, however, that you would have gotten a bad note in school! But you also get a bad note for climate policy. I can now introduce realism in all its clarity. This also applies to what I heard from the previous speakers, with the exception of Mrs Bayr, who described this excellently with the current refugee crisis, with the hunger and climate situation in this world, which we ourselves have greatly accelerated with our corporations. This has to be clear to us, but this is still the subject of palm oil today. Then there will be the picture of a refugee ship on the speaker's desk, but now there is the picture of a ship with goods. [[pointing to the previously placed panel]] At any rate, we are closing our eyes to reality, especially you, Mr Minister, in your dual role as Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, because you know what is actually going on. I want to bring in some realism: Today I have read that there is a six percent increase in flights at Vienna Airport. Sensation! We want to break all the records, we're building a third runway, and now we're building – thank God! – also a hacking carving. Sensational! Nature will be saved, the hacks will come from the east. This is the most important way of doing this: The brand is native, the delivery foreign, and then we have exactly the same problem as in our country Austria with 47 percent forest area: Most of the firewood and pellets available in the supermarkets in various building markets, warehouses and hotels are produced from Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. Live environmental policy! – We also want to talk a little bit about traffic, not just about electric vehicles and so on. No, no, no, Reality counts. How much senseless traffic is on the highways, what is all carried in vain? The same problem affects us in the overflights: There are 3 100 overflights a day, and we are discussing what conditions we still have to make in local agriculture so that we can save the bees! The same applies to cruise ships: Ladies and gentlemen. Everyone is unaware of using them, but the 15 new cruise ships that have run off the stack this year are causing the same environmental pollution as 750 million cars! – That’s the reality! Let us in this House talk about the reality and not about the cosmetic marginal appearances! The same applies to agriculture: A third of farms have been closed in agriculture since accession to the EU. This means that 200 000 regional jobs or real green jobs have been destroyed. These people stand today – you know, when you were driving on the highway in the early days – somewhere with their cars in the traffic jam and have to drive far away to work. – All of this is the overall impact of this environmental and agricultural policy! Minister! I'm allowed to transfer to the Master Plan Rural Space, which you apply for in the media on double sides. It's perfectly clear to me: It's not supposed to be with the 15th. October, but it should be only the Master Plan Rural Space that you would not have been able to produce! I don't want to insult anyone, but you didn't bring the word "farm" into this master plan once! For this we have a young farmer's calendar, in which on the first hand a young farmer is depicted, but who is studying Jus, because the cows to which she once went to the stable with the father no longer exist, and she will probably be the first to represent the companies against the rest of the farmers. - Keep going! That's the right way, I like it, it's sustainable! It's really sustainable! [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] All I can say is: If we do not get under control of this globalisation – at the next item on the agenda we will talk about CETA and TTIP, then we can discuss it – then these people have no chance in us. All the rules are for the corporations, this is about predatory capitalism, and that is why we need regionalization. Regionalization serves man. Human beings are placed at the centre, then we can also influence and make things manageable. I think that the very essential thing will be that we do not take these terms as a single and single word as a keyword, but actually live them! I say quite clearly here – and this will remain so in the next few years: Every decision I make in politics, every decision we make here, meets my 14 grandchildren, and that is why I will make a particularly careful decision here. I think that's all that, absolutely essential! This is a policy that we must pursue! What we decide in the near future in the financial field as well as in the environment, in the labour market, in the social field is true of our children and children. That is why there must be a genuine single policy, and the White principle is: Careful handling of humans, animals and the environment! I think that must be the credo for the next legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5456	Next: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5477	Minister! High house! I mean, we all know: There are three key challenges worldwide: the solution of social issues, climate change and migration. Climate change and migration, climate warming and migration are, of course, closely related, and one thing is clear: The problems can be solved worldwide, but of course every nation state can and must do its homework. When I take a look at the climate change report published a few weeks ago, Mr. Minister, I see Austria's position in climate change protection. In 2015, CO2 emissions increased by 3.2 percent year-on-year and slightly above the 1990 value. – Mr Minister, please listen, don’t talk about it, it’s about important questions! – This means nothing more than that the government’s climate change policy has failed in recent years and that you have failed. If you make yourself here today and tell us that you are making a confession to the goals of the Paris Agreement, I must say: A confession alone, Minister, is too little. Measures must follow! I heard your party leader yesterday when he said: Climate change is already on our agenda. . My question: But where is he, please, on the agenda? Let us take a look at the ÖVP programme, which is in the tax programme: Yes, there is a lot of talk of tax relief for large donors of the ÖVP, of corporate tax, of non-taxable profits. There is talk of a tax bonus for children in the amount of €1500. 40 percent of all children are excluded from it, but doesn't matter, doesn't matter! There is talk of a discharge of lower incomes. In reality, the higher incomes were relieved. But there is no mention at all of the ecologisation of the tax system – not at all! Nothing of that is included! After the last tax reform, you, Mr. Minister, said: The next tax reform must be an ecological tax reform! – However, I can’t see any of that in your programs! Now, the economic research institutes are recommending an ecologisation of the tax system in connection with the reduction of additional labour costs and the reduction of the factor labour, because tax systems also have a driving function, it has already been pointed out, and CO2 taxes play a special role in this context. At the time, under the direction of Karl Aiginger, the Austrian Economic Research Institute, launched a large, Europe-wide project, namely WWWforEurope, and one of the recommendations of Aiginger: We must drive the relief of the factor work to the point of halving, and the instrument for doing so is energy taxes, CO2 taxes. – But unfortunately there is no mention of this! It's not about knocking, it's really about knocking. If you and your party are constantly talking about the climate targets and if it is always the case that the labour factor is to be relieved and that businesses and households are to be relieved, then take advantage of this instrument, then make this instrument yours! But it is central that these CO2 charges should not, as it were, lead to additional revenue from the state – I would like to point out in particular – but rather that this should return to the private budgets one to one again, through a relief of the factor, for example through the discharge by social security contributions, and on the entrepreneurial side by reducing the wage-related charges. This ecologicalisation of the tax system is good in several ways: It does something for climate change, but it also creates growth and employment, thus preventing unemployment and securing the livelihoods of our future generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5535	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:31:51]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5557	We now come to the debate I have announced. First of all, Mr. Dr. Zinggl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5581	Madam President. As announced at 9 a.m., I would like to change the agenda and have the report on the protection of monuments, which is now in place in the last place. I think that this report is worthy of being dealt with earlier. Short to the history: In May, there were very good reasons why I asked for a small committee of inquiry – in fact, he is called Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors – to examine the Federal Monuments Office. Before that, the Court of Auditors published a somewhat flattering report on this monument, and there was also a report of the internal revision. I was particularly concerned that four points were dealt with, and these were also dealt with, namely the different decisions, which remains under monument protection and when the monument protection is removed. Let me give you just one example: In 2008 the director of the Künstlerhaus on the Vienna Karlsplatz requested that the huge glass roof be changed a little. [[Abg. Schieder: The glass roof of the Künstlerhaus is not an agenda item now!]] The Bundesdenkmalmamt has examined the minutely, produced a detailed notice and rejected this statement. There can be different opinions, but for such a decision the monument is there! A few years later, the builder Haselsteiner bought the Künstlerhaus, and a request was made that this glass roof be removed, and see: The request was accepted, and this glass roof is now gone! – So much on the subject of different decisions on monument protection and the abolition of this protection. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Whoever pays is allowed to buy, that's how it looks!]] Another point is that buildings are not protected, which would actually be worth being protected. – I believe that because of this lack some buildings are in danger of being destroyed, and thus also capital and resources, which would be of long-term economic value to the Republic. Finally, it was a matter of illuminating once more the events surrounding the electronic data archive, which, as the Minister in the Committee said, was a million tomb. On this million tomb, the Federal Chancellery has also created, and I believe that the money would have been better used to protect the monuments. Finally, it was also important to me to show which preferences of the same companies will become effective in the award of contracts and the recommendations of the Bundesdenkmalamt.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5623	Mr. Dr. Zinggl! We are in the debate on the agenda. I would therefore ask you to make a statement and refer to your request, which is to amend the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5638	Madam President. I would like to point out the importance of this item on the agenda, and I have to explain that. I now come to the next conclusion: The subcommittee has done a great job. But it was not possible for me to take part in the last two meetings. Since I am no longer sitting for the Greens in Parliament, but for the Pilz list, the government groups have prevented me from participating in this committee by their majority. I really wonder why they did that. Klubobmann Schieder and Klubobmann Lopatka have now spoken, and they will also explain why the parties have prevented this. Perhaps there are too few seats in the new committee of inquiry; I could have stood. In any case, it would not have harmed the Committee if my information had been discussed with the persons concerned. This committee report is now the last item on the agenda. I believe that the public would have the right to deal with this report in television time, just as it would have the right to have Court Reports and Public Prosecutor's Reports, audit reports not always late at night when everyone is sleeping, but on the morning, i.e. at a day when the television broadcast takes place. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Today no one goes to sleep!]] I believe that the Austrians should learn how sometimes construction is traded, how buildings are bought cheaply, then lose the appropriate protection via speculation and are ultimately much more valuable. That would be our task at the time of television, and I would therefore ask to negotiate this item on the agenda as TOP 3 right after the Federal Chancellor's election speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5678	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5699	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that such a debate on the Rules of Procedure should not be used to bring its points of content to bear, but rather to deal with what they are all about. All human beings are right, an art that no one can! It is also not possible on the agenda that all topics are number one. So we have to sort and sort out the points, and in the course of that, this agenda for today has come to an end as it stands. It was an agreement between all the political groups. Mr Zinggl, we are not both going to get out of the Green Club and, at the same time, we want to remain Green Culture spokespersons. That's not going to work out. In this sense, we have decided in this way, and I would suggest that we also stick to what has been agreed, because there is no agenda on which everything is one.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5733	Please, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5754	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl complained that this report of the Small Investigation Committee had been put to the end of the agenda. – From the point of view of a wild Member, I understand, but that is the only thing I understand for. This is, of course, completely incomprehensible from the Parliament's point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We have rules of play, Mr Rossmann, who should also apply to wild Members, and you are favoured by these rules of the game. I'll tell you: What you complain is that the session takes so long, especially you, the wild Members! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed the agenda in detail in the Bureau. I too had a wish, namely that the debt brake be discussed at the beginning. At first, there was no agreement, but also the Greens agreed to the agenda, as we now have it, and it would not have been possible, at best, to discuss this report here in television time. Why? – The current hour of the Greens is due to begin the debate. If a member of the government wants to make a statement, it will also be at the beginning of the agenda. And it was always your wish, if there is popular desire to deal with it, that the debate on it should take place at the beginning of the agenda. With this we have the sequence: The current hour, then the debate on CETA, then the Federal Chancellor's statement. Of course, the speaking time during the transfer to ORF 2 is over. Secondly, because the poor treatment of the wild Members has been complained of: In fact, the representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Greens and the NEOS must complain. Why? . A wild Member today, if he uses them, has a speaking time of saying and writing for 27 minutes. On average, a member of a club has a speaking time of 3 minutes and 12 seconds. – So much for the uneven and worse treatment of the wild Members. [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Of course, we are opposed to the issue of this objection and to the maintenance of the consensual agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5820	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5842	Madam President. High house! Mr Zinggl has expressed his desire to present the item on the agenda 18. We will not agree, and I will explain why. Of course, we would have liked to have discussed this item on the agenda 18 already. What's that about? . This is a Court of Auditors report on a special examination of the Federal Office of Monuments, which, by the way, had been requested not only by parliamentarian Zinggl, but also by the freedom of parliamentarian Walter Rosenkranz – that has only been held in the middle of the order. This report has brought to light adventurous things. Of course, today we would have liked to discuss the SPÖ power policy in this area – the Federal Denkmal Office, the Federal Chancellery – as well as the personnel policy and the disastrous conduct in this area. Of course, we would have liked to discuss this, and we would also have asked the competent Minister Drozda at this point why there has not yet been any human consequences. However, at item 18, there will still be sufficient opportunity to discuss this matter, which is not at all acceptable and which actually shows a moral picture of some SPÖ-led ministries with Freunderlwirtschaft et cetera. This is all contained in this Court of Auditors report, and we will be able to discuss it in due course. Secondly, it is a question of subjective assessment: What is important on the agenda, what is less important? – My previous speakers have already mentioned this. . Today, we have many important points on the agenda, which are, of course, a bit more important for us liberals than this item on the agenda. We will then discuss the topic of TTIP and CETA. There will be a very important item on the agenda immediately following this – that has already been mentioned –: the debt brake. Then there is a very important item on the agenda, item 4, which should bring a significant increase, a fair increase in pensions for our pensioners. It is also a very important item on the agenda of item 6, namely the approximation of the rights of workers and employees. ==References== Agenda item on boarding costs and support for our apprentices. We want the boarding costs to be taken over. So it goes on and on: Inclusion of people with disabilities, then there is an important request concerning banknote fees, and then there is a very important point concerning the abolition of the rental contract fee. You see, there are just points that are even more important than this point 18. That is why we cannot follow this desire. And a very proficient reason is: There is something like the President-in-Office of this Parliament, and the President-in-Office has agreed to this agenda. We now see no reason to intervene in the area of the Presidency and to implement the agenda. That is why we cannot follow this desire.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5887	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5908	Dear Wolfgang Zinggl, today is not any meeting. Today is one of the rare meetings in which we experience an hour of the Parliament. We know how Parliament's meetings usually take place. There are government documents, the government parties stand up, the opposition sometimes disagrees with sometimes. As it turns out, it is usually predetermined. There are statistical meetings every ten years, where this is not so clear, namely before elections, when the coalition fidelity, the coalition discipline without coalition no longer holds and free majority forms in this House, just as it is actually the idea of parliamentaryism. And today's such a meeting! I assume that many citizens are interested in this very thing: What does a living Parliament assume? What does this Parliament reject? This is at the heart of this meeting. I have a lot of understanding for the Court of Auditors' report. Our group has often advocated dealing with Court of Auditors reports here earlier. But let's look, dear Wolfgang Zinggl, what's on the agenda today! The ÖVP has been in the government for 31 years, has virtually never been overrun in these 31 years. Today, we have a session where the EIA will prevail six times and break its blockade policy. This is what interests citizens – with all the understanding that you want to deal with the Court of Auditors report earlier. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What are these six points? Why is it important for them to be discussed publicly and transparently here, how the parties stand on these issues? The first point is the request made by our Judith Schwentner, who aims to eliminate the billing of partner income for emergency aid, thus improving the situation for vulnerable women, for vulnerable families. This is an important and central point, and the public should know that the Austrian People's Party will vote against this request. The next point is the approximation of the rights of workers and employees. This is a decades-long concern of ours. No one understands that workers in this country are under labour law on many issues. It's gonna be exciting. The EIA will vote against. By the way: It is an election promise of Sebastian Kurz to match that, and it is the first election promise that Sebastian Kurz – before the election! – will break. That's what the public should know! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] But it will also be exciting: How does the Freedom Party vote – the party that appoints itself a representative of the small people? If it becomes concrete, it is never so clear: Will she vote or will she not vote? Will she raise the voice for the workers or will she not? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The public wants to know that, not at midnight, but best at 5 p.m., no later than 6 p.m. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Knes.]] Or the third point – there is again a majority against the Austrian People's Party – that the boarding costs for apprentices are taken over by the public: This is an important concern. The public should know how the Austrian People's Party is positioning itself on this issue. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Are no Greens represented in the next National Council?]] It goes further: the inclusion report, with which more is to be done for people with disadvantage, whose attention the Austrian People's Party will reject, or the abolition or prevention of banknote fees, which are annoyed by many consumers. All of these are the important points that are being voted on by free majority in this House today. The Austrians, dear Wolfgang Zinggl, should know how the parties stand. That is why we are opposed to the change in the agenda and to the fact that we are now discussing these important issues for citizens and discussing them comprehensiblely so that everyone can take a look. That is why we are not getting closer to your proposal for the Court of Auditors' report on all these points. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e5979	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6000	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is an election campaign in Parliament. Today, there is an election campaign, and today Parliament or a large majority of this Parliament abandons one of the main functions of this House, namely the control of the administration. What happened? As a Parliament, we have shown that we can successfully control – in the Eurofighter Examining Committee, in numerous other committees of inquiry, also thanks to the Members of other political groups. We have shown how a controlling Parliament looks. But several things have happened with the question Bundesdenkmalamt. First: Finally, one of the two initiators of this parliamentary inquiry has been excluded from his own committee just because he no longer belongs to a political group. I just don't understand. This has not increased the quality of parliamentary control. And now the majority of Parliament is saying: This main function of Parliament is to be extended late in the night, for which we are making an election campaign. [[Abg. Kickl: Quite unlike you!]] And then I'll address the SPÖ: Faith You really think it's the right of the SPÖ's top candidate to explain to us, so today I'm coming to Parliament and today there's a election speech by Christian Kern, because he might not get any more bad dates?- Oh, my God! What kind of Parliament is this? The ORF, all possible people do everything anyway, so that the Federal Chancellor can occur as often as possible. Why can we not discuss our important parliamentary affairs in the way that the National Council itself has set its agenda, but rather let us explain from the SPÖ's party headquarters how the agenda of the National Council meeting looks? I don't have the slightest understanding of that. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the SPÖ with which you make a urgent today!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What is important today – the control of the federal administration on the basis of the incidents in the Bundesdenkmalamt or an election speech by the SPÖ summit candidate? I don't understand for that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] And I don't understand for something second: The Federal Chancellor makes Parliament judge, the CETA Treaty is not presented to Parliament because the vote does not go as the Federal Chancellor and top candidate wishes. You have to imagine that! The CETA Treaty is not presented to the House because the Chancellor is not sure that the interests of international groups can be placed on the interests of independent justice and of the Austrian Parliament. Not only does he not lead us to the CETA agreements – I think illegal – and thus impossibility of parliamentary work, but he also says that instead of the CETA contracts you get me, the power. Core. This cannot, in fact, be liked by a powerful and mature Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups. That's just not all right. That is why I think it is so important to give a clear signal to the Federal Chancellor and SPÖ candidates as well as other members of the government: We are an independent Parliament, we are responsible for legislation, for the budget and for parliamentary control. We control, we are not a stage for the German Chancellor's election campaign, but we are an independent independent parliament that controls this Chancellor, his Foreign Minister and the other members of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are there any objections to the agenda?]] If we were really a self-confident Parliament, it would be natural for us to deal with the report on the Bundesdenkmalmamt far ahead and put the statement, the German Chancellor's election speech where it belongs, at the end of the agenda. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider once again whether we do not jointly send a strong signal to campaigners outside Parliament who want to abuse our arenas here. That would be a sign of parliamentarianism, that would be a sign of a self-confident Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6073	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6094	Madam President. One can of course discuss whether the Federal Chancellor's election speech must be on the agenda so far. Whether Peter Pilz's election speech, now that he is sitting in Parliament after 31 years, suddenly insists that he no longer agrees with the rules that we have given ourselves here, must also be at the beginning of the day, it may also be possible to discuss them, as did Mr Zinggl. [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are rules here in Parliament. Mr Lopatka has already mentioned it, we have agreed in the presidency on this agenda, which was not undisputed. It was an important concern of the ÖVP, but also of us NEOS that the debt brake be treated as early as possible. That is why, for example, there is only one round of speakers, so we have found a compromise so that we can discuss this issue earlier. Yes, of course, control is an important concern and an important instrument of Parliament, but what is also an important concern and an important instrument of Parliament is legislation. To act here as if the only one or the essential is the control, just because it is right for my colleague Pilz to put the control in the foreground, where we have a day where on the one hand we need to discuss many important laws and on the other hand many important laws will also be passed by different majority groups, I find it quite difficult. Klubobmann Steinhauser has already mentioned which topics are on the agenda. I think it is particularly important that we discuss these at the time, because we will also remember what is happening in Austria in this context in election times. This Parliament will do to a large extent what it always does, namely not look at the next generation. We will no longer distribute election sugar until we go; that is what SPÖ and ÖVP have done over the last decades, and what they will do now again. The Greens will vote in part, the FPÖ will vote in part. Of course, the next generation has a right to participate in this at the corresponding time of the broadcast and see how election is being made here at the expense of the coming generations. [[Abg. Kickl: You want to abolish the cold progression now!]] Mr Kickl, who abolishs cold progression: If I let people have more money in the wallet, it's not an election sugar, it's about giving people what they have done, and the state doesn't take away much from them. [[Abg. Kickl: You would have done that before the election!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah that!]] What we are going to do again today is what you will do with the pensions, because you will pour out pensions over inflation to almost all pensioners, and all this is at the expense of the next generation, rather than, as desired by ÖVP and FPÖ, we could decide a debt brake here also with the other parties. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] Although you want to go along with it, it is not possible to understand how this is going about the unhindered debt policy, which you have partly been responsible for over the last few decades. In any case, the fact is: It is important that we discuss the issues that are now on the agenda on which we have agreed on a consensus. Yes, of course, control is an important instrument of Parliament, but I am of the opinion that Parliament is what it is supposed to be, namely the legislator in this country. Accordingly, it is of course important that we now conduct these debates here. Yes, the control in connection with the Federal Monumental Office, which has come out of Parliament, is still being discussed – at a later hour, that is right. But as Klubobmann Schieder said, everyone here has a concern and everyone would like his theme, which is most important to him, to be on the agenda as far as possible. It won't go out. That is why we will not vote against the agenda either.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6176	Next: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6197	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen. Spectators and spectators in front of the TV sets! I spoke very consciously on this objection debate by Mr Zinggl because I think we should not explore what it is all about. My colleague Pilz, I'm surprised you're going to be the first to be treated, and you'll even be taken to the elephant show on TV. No one can explain this to me, but we still have at the next item on the agenda today, after this election speech, as you have referred to it, the opportunity to discuss how to make such differences; but you will have found your ways. It is known that the clubmen will decide on the agenda in a preliminary meeting. I am therefore opposed to Mr Zinggl's request because I think I have been able in this House over the last four years to reveal the largest food scandal in Europe, but this point, a palm oil strategy for Austria, is being put on the agenda as the last item – just as all the agricultural debates in recent years have always been treated after television broadcasting, although these were so important debates. We have just heard about the environmental debate in which it is directly related. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware – and I am not proposing to change the agenda today: That doesn't happen by chance. That's this democracy, that word that we've been stretching so many times. In the election campaign, on the election posters, in the election speeches: Everyone's talking about democracy. No, she's not! I will explain, after Mr Bundeskanzler's speech, how to influence people with the opinional research, with the acquired opinional research, how to calculate the non-electors, who will not go to election at all. There people are completely misinformed, and the media are involved; even in this house it is happening immediately. I wanted to say that because I find it extremely unfair that a house talking about democracy in which the dignity of the House is spoken is not being worked out objectively, because it could also be done much more for smaller groups and more democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6235	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6256	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore speaking because I would like to say here that there has been a very good cooperation between all the political groups in the Court of Auditors. I said that yesterday at the last committee meeting and thank everyone. The Committee's participants have really been actively involved in Parliament's task of monitoring Parliament. It is not always easy to go through and discuss these reports in detail – it was up to the hundred we had to process in recent years – and draw the right conclusions from them. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In the same way, we have tried – it is a pity that the committee chairman Moser is not here, at least I do not see them, sorry! . to continue to carry out this Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection concerning the Federal Monumental Office, even though these things could not be achieved so easily during this pre-election period and outside the normal meeting hours. [[Call the Greens: She's here anyway!]] However, we have done this, we have made a real effort to do so. I regret that there is not yet a regulation for people – we certainly have to make it – who leave their political group during the legislative period. This time, surprisingly many have left their own party, who have listened to them for years, or have turned their backs. You have to accept that. They probably did so for good reasons, because they were no longer set up, that might be. But if, after we have turned our backs on our own group, which has requested this investigation, and have formed its own groups, we are now still defining how you should make the agenda, then I have no understanding of it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] My previous speakers have already said on several occasions what is on the agenda today, and this is explained from their point of view. I also agree with colleagues Zinggl and Pilz and everyone else that they say: We would like to have dealt with this topic in the first place in order to be able to discuss it widely again!, only: I wonder – and I ask you to speak to you, even if this is discussed later – that colleagues Pilz and Zinggl are not on the list of speakers. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: They want to go home earlier!]] Is that just the case because it is only in the evening, in some cases at 24 o'clock, that it is not so interesting for them, because they may not be coming to the media anymore? I mean, Either it's about your business, I'm trying to tell you to speak. The debate should also take place whether it is at 1 p.m., 5 p.m. or 24 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6314	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the amendments tabled by Mr Zinggl on the agenda item 18 as agenda item 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[11:03:21]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6353	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:03:32]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6401	The SPÖ Parliamentary Club has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 14129/J by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Health and Women on “Fighting poverty of children and single women – implementing maintenance guarantee!”. [[The urgent question does not have the number 14129/J, but the number 14128/J. See correction by President Hofer, p. 90.]] Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[11:04:08]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6431	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Dr. Strolz has requested that the Financial Committee report to Member Dr. Rainer Hable, Member of Parliament, on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, be limited to a period of time until 19. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6455	==References== To be able to negotiate item on the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Committee of the Regions on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG-NR on the implementation of the request of Dr Walter Rosenkranz, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues on the examination of the birth of the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Monument Office, including his departments in the federal states (1782 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6489	It is proposed that the debate on points 4 and 5 and 14 and 15 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why we're going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6515	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 135, FPÖ 125, Green 105 and NEOS 55 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 28 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. It was also agreed on item 3 that only one speaker or one speaker would speak per club. We come to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:07:04]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the popular desire for TTIP / CETA (1608/1781 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6561	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6589	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The popular desire of us has received 562,000 votes of support, is thus the 11th best popular desire and has been treated in Parliament as one of those popular desires that have received the most attention. I know only one popular desire, which has been negotiated better and more intensively here in Parliament, that is the educational people's desire. One can say that this popular desire is the second best in parliamentary treatment. This popular desire has been thoroughly negotiated in three sessions. It has been created on it protocols that make up 117 pages in a total of 117 pages. These are available on the Parliament's homepage. From this point of view, I should like to thank the proponents of this popular desire, who have created it, very much for the effort and effort they have made to make this popular desire so successful. In particular, I should like to congratulate the Plenipotentiary, Mr Thumpser, on this and thank him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] What emerged during the negotiations and in particular with regard to the CETA Agreement is that the CETA Agreement was finally signed. But before it was signed, a number of comments were negotiated, in particular, on Austria's resistance to this agreement, in particular a protocol which was annexed to the interpretation of this Treaty. In this interpretation protocol or in this explanation manual there are very essential things in it. It is in fact within the framework of this negotiation process. Six, which eventually also led to subjugation, in particular at the work of the Austrian Chancellor, succeeded in achieving that it is now a mixed agreement and therefore this agreement must be submitted to each national Parliament for ratification. This has not been a matter of course because the European Union has assumed that it is not a mixed agreement. Furthermore, this interpretation protocol states that the European precautionary principle is not affected. What does that mean? – In Europe, there is an authorisation procedure for food and also for medicines and other products, which is carried out in advance, where products are tested for their properties, then approved and then placed on the market – unlike the Anglo-American countries which have a post-care principle where everything is allowed in principle until it is not subsequently banned. This principle was incorporated into the Treaty on the initiative and under the participation of Austria. Furthermore, the German Federal Constitutional Court found that the provisional application applies only to the European Union's own powers, but not to investment protection jurisdiction. Furthermore, the Joint Commission may take its democratic legitimacy only in a unanimous decision, and at any time there must be the possibility to withdraw from this provisional scope. That means that this is actually the Austrian position – the position that the Federal Chancellor represents! – the fact that those parts which fall within European competence are not applicable, however, the controversial investment protection jurisdiction, which has many shortcomings. In the case of a functioning legal system such as in Austria, where courts deal with objective and fair matters, it is not understandable that an Austrian entrepreneur is satisfied with the proceedings at an Austrian court and a Canadian does not. This is not to be seen because it has the same starting positions and the same rules for application. A functioning jurisdiction does not require supranational jurisdiction, but it is possible to deal with investment protection provisions or claims for damages in normal courts in Austria. This is the position of the Federal Chancellor and the position of the German Federal Constitutional Court, which considers that this Investment Protection Agreement intervenes in the internal regulatory monopoly of the States and is thus subject to ratification and has this ratification to take place in the national parliaments. This cannot yet be done because the final decision of the German Federal Constitutional Court is still pending, as the Belgian Government has requested an opinion on the classification in the field of European Union law and the erodement of the European Court of Justice's monopoly of interpretation. That's waiting. That'll take about two years. Therefore, a presentation of this Agreement is not possible two years ago. At this time, the European Commission still has improvements in the field of investment protection. In this sense, the Austrian position – which is the position of the Federal Chancellor – and also that of the German Federal Constitutional Court is legally founded and internationally recognized.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6659	Mr Haubner. — (NL) Mr President, the next item is the report by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6682	Mr President. Mr Rupprechter and Mr Mahrer! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also welcome the students of the Gymnasium of Waidhofen at the Ybbs quite cordially here with us. [[General condolences.]] The CETA people's desire has given us the opportunity to focus once again on the trade agreement with Canada. Mr Wittmann has already partly assessed the legal aspects, but we represent different positions in a few areas. I would, however, like to stress, above all, the economic importance of this agreement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... if you are against popular desire!]] It is very important for the site of Europe and the companies concerned and also for the related jobs that such trade agreements be concluded. CETA brings clear rules for trade and investment between Canada and Europe. I would like to say here when looking closely: It's about CETA. In my opinion, TTIP has died, it will no longer be under a President Trump. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but the Trump will not last forever!]] One should not mix the two things here, but let us now talk about CETA! When we take a close look at the facts and facts, we see that on the left and right side of us – in Asia, in parts of South America – the post goes off in growth. Of course, it is very important that, if we want to be successful as an economy, we also deal intensively with such agreements, because with them we can bring our high-quality products and our valuable services out into the world. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe needs these trade agreements to be able to operate even faster and better economy and thus create jobs and, above all, secure them. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] If you look at the history of trade agreements, what they have done in the past, you know that Austria is a major beneficiary of such trade agreements. [[Abg. Kogler: They were all other guys! This is not a trade agreement!]] – Mr Kogler, you are still speaking, then enjoy your speaking time! The figures speak for themselves: We earn six out of ten euros in export, with an export volume of 130 billion euros and a million jobs – and this is huge! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] This is of course also very important for the Austrian successes: Made in Austria is an international quality seal, which is the case with Hi-Tech, which is true for innovations, that is the case with services and of course this is the case with our excellent food. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that it is very important for the regions that we have such trade agreements. If we look closely at this, we see clearly – for example, in my native country of Salzburg – how we benefit from these trade agreements. For example, in Salzburg last year we had an export volume of about €11 billion. These exports go to the whole world. Of these, a third went to overseas countries like Canada. That is, this proportion has grown by more than 60 percent over the last five years. Many of our regions benefit from this – including many great companies in my constituency – and many small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from it, and that ensures jobs. It is therefore very important that we take advantage of this strategic opportunity. Let us not put our company, on which many jobs depend, stones in the way! Let us see that we also ratify this agreement so that we can remain on the success path of the Austrian economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6771	Mr Mag. Stefan is next to the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6792	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to clarify the following: We of the FPÖ agree with this request because it is a purely report on the treatment of popular desire for TTIP / CETA. So it is not a vote on CETA, TTIP, TiSA or anything else in this direction, but just about how popular desire was dealt with here in Parliament. And it is also just a technical report and no report on how badly popular desire might have been treated here. That's another topic! Nevertheless, you have to look back very briefly at how CETA and TTIP came about. We are talking first and foremost about CETA, because TTIP is probably on ice; if it has died, I do not know. I think that it is too short-sighted to hold on to a President. CETA was started to negotiate between the European Union and Canada in 2009, completely behind closed doors, without any transparency. You couldn't see how that happened at all. The European Commission was mainly consulted by lobby associations, so there were always concerns that certain interests are in the foreground and that they are primarily used in the discussions. It was then God's thanks to the European Commission for so much pressure that it was agreed that it was at least a mixed agreement. This means that at least parts of this agreement must be voted once again in each Parliament. But this was only possible because there was such a strong pressure, otherwise the agreement would simply be slipped through at European level, it would have been won through, and it would have been in force for a long time, as it was originally desired. We must also consider the role of Austria, because it is our only government representatives who can vote for Austria and, in any case, we can also veto in a Council of Ministers. That's not what happened. Our representatives – and in particular German Chancellors’ core – have agreed that CETA can enter into force. You always have to stress this, even if you make yourself today and say you're critical here and you can't do some things: One could have prevented it from coming that far. Now in Austria, thank God, an initiative has brought in a popular desire. I would also like to thank and congratulate you once again, because this is an incredible effort. It's a stupid weapon, we know. We also regularly criticize that there is no other. It's the only way for the population to make themselves felt at all, but it's a stupid weapon, that's what you have. seen: It will then be discussed in Parliament – this time a little more complex than usual. There should have been four treatments in the committee, there were only three, and the third was just because the opposition really put pressure on here and said that it cannot be that we are moving this into November, December or perhaps not debate it at all at all. So if we hadn't insisted on the opposition that there was this discussion at all today, this would have been turned under the carpet because it was apparently unpleasant for the government parties to talk about this issue because they would have to say yes, yes, we agreed to this potential erodement of our sovereignty and didn't want to deal with the people at all. – That’s why it’s very unpleasant for them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what is the criticism of CETA? You have to point this out again and again: CETA is already partially in force – you have to say that too – and it has been in place partially since October. In particular, the duties have been abolished once. This is a positive thing, because as a liberal we are of course also for it, we are for free trade. If we practice criticism here, then there are concrete points and not aversion to the fact that there is a free trade in the world. On the contrary, we know that Austria is also benefiting from it. Therefore, this one point is that there are no more customs, positive. But what is the great economic effect? – We have just heard, the jobs depend on it, for Austria this is very important. Even the most positive studies, by CETA's supporters, have shown that after ten years, Canada may have an increase in per capita income of 3 per cent, while in Europe it is expected to be 0.2 per cent after ten years. So we're talking about a minimum economic effect. In this light, what has been told so full-bodiedly here is to be seen. A positive effect is a positive effect, yes, but if it occurs to such a small extent, then you have to look at the risks. One issue is of course always the so-called investment protection because it means that companies can complain of states if they believe that their investments have been randomly disturbed, for example through legal measures. This is a very delicate point, because this can ultimately lead to the taxpayer's having to pay a compensation claim. You can imagine that's tricky. It was discussed for a long time in the context of CETA's emergence and in itself decided to set up a new court for that purpose. The pressure that has come from the population and from the individual states has also been positively developed. Nevertheless, we now have a court served by judges. These judges have a minimum basic income according to our current information status and are then paid according to procedure. This means, of course, that it tends to be an incentive to have as many procedures as possible, and one could assume that one might rather allow procedures and decide accordingly, precisely because of this incentive. Nor should we forget what an incredible financial power stands for some of these potential complainants. These countries can become quite dangerous. And if, in advance of obedience or at least on the grounds of caution, States no longer adopt certain laws that might serve environmental protection or consumer protection, then of course it will be tricky. This is exactly the point that concerns us very much: that about such jurisdiction States are indirectly forced to act differently than they want. This is, in fact, also a hallucination of democracy and the possibilities of Parliaments. That is why we are so critical here, even in view of this very small effect that could exist. For example, you have to imagine this: A state is opposed to fracking but has not yet taken any legal action against it. A Canadian company invests in this state to perform fracking there. Only after that will a legal regulation be made to prevent fracking. In this case, it would be possible for the company to complain and the State to pay compensation. These are very specific examples. Or: Exit from nuclear energy, classical case. Germany has been sued for, of course, investments in nuclear power plants have also been made. As a result, the German state may be threatened with a truly large claims for damages of several billion euros. So these are delicate points. Although there are vague provisions, where it is said that the States can to some extent make arrangements if they believe that this is important for their citizens, and then this point would be excluded from the protection of investment. But these are so vague provisions that we know exactly how this will be done. There is incredible power behind that, which will then look for all possible loopholes. If you have such undetermined provisions, then there is always the risk that they will be eliminated. So that's a very delicate point. We also have the area of buying back basic privatized supplies. It could be that in a state, although not water supply, the sewer system was privatized. We know that too, unfortunately. We have always been opposed to privatising critical infrastructure, but it always happens again and again. If, now, a state or a local government were to re-communicate that, so to want to bring it back to the public sector, that could also cause a complaint because a foreign company might feel discriminated against by it. This is therefore a very delicate point, which always reduces and reduces the scope for the design of its own state. That means that we take our own sovereignty. These are delicate points, which you don't just use with as loose explanations as: It is important to trade!, wipe away. Of course, the discussion on the possible reduction of EU standards is also taking place. There are, of course, provisions for certain things to be left out, but it must not be forgotten that Canada is the third largest exporter of genetically modified foods. The fact that there is a great interest in selling these products on this road is probably obvious. There is a possible development of the CETA Agreement once it is fully in force, and it is quite possible that something is moving in this direction. That is something that is at least rejected in Austria. I'm coming to a close now. I would like to carry this out even further, but as a political group we have limited speaking time, as has already been mentioned. In any case, there is a great distrust in the population of such agreements, especially in addition to the low effect, in view of the fact that sovereignty is clearly restricted. In the end, since there are risks to be borne by individual citizens, because such trade agreements often have direct effect on the lives of individual citizens, we believe that people should at least be questioned as they see it. So to speak, in the further development of popular desire, which has been aimed at including the population, I would like to make the following request: Request of Deputies Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in the People's Survey on Trade and Services Agreements (TTIP, CETA and TiSA)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e6927	The request put forward by Mr Stefan is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7013	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It should not be underestimated what a small country like Austria can contribute to the clarification of these questions in the global context, namely: What is more reasonable and fair trade?, versus these truly threatening corporate rights, what meaning and what role it can take here – or if one had a courageous government! But we are far away, because red and black-turquoises, in sad agreement, have led Parliament around here on the nose and the CETA Treaty does not lead to this House, because there would be a majority against it. That's completely absurd, that's after-the-sales democratic perverse: The people's representatives must no longer represent the people! It's come that far. We only wanted to know that once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, a small country has a big role to play, which is why we should take it and not maneuver into the dead end and look for the back exit there, as it is known that there is no such thing in a dead end. But we'll show you a way out. It is the same as climate protection, where the role of the little ones is very important. In an impressive speech, Mr Brunner said what a responsibility this generation has – and Austria in Europe and Europe in the world. At CETA it is much clearer, much clearer! It is first of all thanks to the initiators, to the citizens who signed. That was really a surprise for everyone – yes, for everyone, I do not take it out, but the possibilities of this popular desire, as unfortunately so often, very small, are a surprise success, so 600 000 citizens are very much. So thanks to these and the citizens' initiatives that have accompanied this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we just want to focus more on CETA, because that was originally more comprehensive, and there you have to stop in the short time, because from the other side more or less monoton always come the same arguments, a few things are going through, in the quick course. Of course it is for trade – but for which? It is always argued here with growth and employment effects; everything is to be done. It is argued with the Austrian export rate of 60 percent. – Yes, but did you ever notice that it came about without such contracts? There's trade now! There are bad things, but also good things. There you can also improve something, and in CETA there are even many passable points inside. Recently, I am never going to mention this, we, the Minister for Economic Affairs and I, have talked about the economy and export in a very useful way, and we have found a lot of agreement; that is not the case. Only you pretend that all of this is only done with such contracts – you're back from the Chamber of Commerce; well, what else should you expect? I don't know if you'll have to paint yourself in Turquoise, anyway, your speech was still black. They always explain to us some statistics here, but they only provide the proof that the world is the same anyway, even without these contracts. With all the advantages that one can achieve with future contracts that are reasonable and fair to global trade – and that is what we should strive to do – one must see the poison teeth, and this must be drawn. This has nothing to do with 60 or 50 percent export rate, but it simply has to do with Look at it. Finally, you have to ask this question, instead of here – I mean, you have a reason to do so, but maybe you don't know – to attack complete euphemism, a beautiful speech, as we say. These are primarily not trade contracts, and they are not at all free, because the only ones to be set free are the corporations – they are, yes. This is always about the question of David's against Goliath, and we are in doubt here on the sides of David, even out of market-economy conviction, because only many smaller companies can make sure that it works the way you see it in the textbook. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, the textbook says inside, the trade is good and brings something. – Yes, but under what conditions? These must be politically analysed and also changed. That's our job – and not to go after anything that any group lobbyists introduced to us. This is the wrong song, but what is happening in the score of CETA? – The precautionary principle is broken! There you can explain something else a hundred times, because you are not willing or unable – I don't know – to read Article 25 at last. This question has never been answered by the government in all the expert discussions. In fact, this is explicitly in there, because with your EU primary law you can then stand back in the application. The regulatory cooperation: That's a strange word, but in reality it's about letting in group lobbyism from the beginning. Not that they then decide that, but lobbyism in the run-up to decisions by democratically elected parliaments, how they are, is admitted. And who's in there? – Rather the corporations, but certainly not the environmentalists, the key to climate protection. That's all except for it. Climate protection is definitely zero topic, environmental enforcement rules are not available. There are only the rights for the companies that they can then appeal to private courts. That's absurd! This is a democratic step back. For this, the French Revolution did not exist, that then corporations would turn all this around again. That's how it is when you look more closely! And you want to be a bourgeois party?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A market economy can only work if there is a good framework legislation – and then the framework legislator goes here and demands and escapes! That's what you're doing here. They always keep us in mind, we didn't understand. But they simply don't want to see us dealing very well with the economic issues, but also with these poison teeth. Now we have the following situation: In the background, Austria has always insisted that these agreements should come. The famous Group privileges, vulgo corporate rights, private arbitration systems, were not inside at first, came in afterwards, and we caught you in the protocols that you were always in front of it. Then the government, including the present, Mr. Kern, comes and wants to push it a little away and turn it around. The rest of the story remains a completely strange one – I have already predicted the points – that we should not decide here. But you have to leave this dead end. It is only striking that this is one of the few things where core and short agree, namely not to give us the contract. We'll show you the way out of this dead end. First of all, the Federal Government has unconstitutionally agreed. We have several decisions – one in the National Council, one in the Federal Council, one in the Federal Republic of Germany and the other in the Federal Republic of Germany. that, which would all be binding, namely that one should not have agreed at European level. That's why you can still clean that up. Group rights will disappear for all eternity if we do not ratify here, but the other poison teeth can still be removed. We are fighting for this, and that is why we should not ratify it. But since this federal government is too cowardly, as I think, to bring it into the house, and the next government negotiations will also become difficult, there is a way out of this dead end that I would not always take immediately, but in this case it is logical and correct: the popular survey. To this end, several reasonable people, and I too, come to the conclusion, and I therefore make the appropriate request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The question of yes or no will also be asked for this government. It's time to confess color. ==References====External links== It is also a day of voting on this issue on October.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7180	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kogler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7269	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the initiators of popular desire. We all agree: Transparency and information are extremely important, and I believe that the debate on CETA and also on TTIP has shown that the European Union must act differently in the future – and it has also given evidence on the issue of transparency – and that we also need to take other ways in communication. It is also a hope that I place in the next federal government that this will be done the same way. But what happens again in this debate? – It’s an election campaign and many different things are thrown into a pot, with me almost a bit surprised – it’s already relatively close to the elections, and a little cream has already been distributed – that it’s at least a bit quieter from the FPÖ. Thanks to colleague Kogler for continuing with green populism as usual. Unlike Fred Sinowatz might have said, your motto is not that everything is very complicated, but it's all very simple in the green world, it's always extremely easy to explain. Mr Kogler, you asked: Where's the trade we've done up to now? – Not by the Holy One The spirit and also of no good fairy, but also of 59 agreements which we have already concluded and which also include such investment protection clauses. [[Abg. Kogler: But not CETA!]] These agreements have given rise to this trade. A fundamental difference between these things, which are now just so mixed on the table, is, for example, that CETA is negotiated, TTIP will not and probably not come either. TiSA, for example, is only at the beginning of the negotiation process. And why we did not argue about the free trade agreement with South Korea, nobody understands here either. The suspicion is that you only criticize what is cheap and easy to criticize, or perhaps just what you can score in the election campaign and what you don't have to explain in addition. From a European perspective, we are really a gallic village of irration, because this is not discussed in other countries, because the governments of other countries have taken on much more responsibility and explained what the benefits are. This is also something I have missed very much from our government in the last legislative period, that has not been clarified and has not been clearly explained – from the very beginning – what the benefits for Austria are. I think that would have been their responsibility. Everyone, including the Greens, always says: Yes, of course we want free trade, of course we want trade in general. But when do you finally come up with the proposals, how do you actually imagine your fair and just free trade agreements? When do you become constructive here and really say how to imagine what to do in such a contract, and not just what you think should not stand inside? We've been discussing this for a long time now. I could not hear that from your speech, Mr Kogler, that was a word cloud without concrete suggestions and ideas, which in turn was only about poison teeth and other “crown”-useable wordings you have formulated here. It is always said that it is too little growth that comes out, Mr Stefan said that, 0.2 percent. Obviously we're totally good, we don't need that, it's all okay. Who wants to grow in the future? - We don't need that. In the survey, university professor Breuss, who is always quoted there, said that the agreement does not bring much or has no major growth effects, but he also said – what he said in the survey is often not mentioned by the critics – that CETA is a good agreement. It is a lot of noise for nothing, a lot of populist noise for nothing, which is now being spread again in the election campaign. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a request for popular survey!]] Of course, as I have already made x-times on this issue, I could once again point out that all the points you have mentioned on investment protection are not voting, if not, that all the points you have mentioned on the precautionary principle, if not that arbitration laws can be repealed, so is not true. These are simply all the untruths that are consciously spread here three days before the election. I think that we as Parliament and as Members of Parliament should ask us much more: Where are we going? What kind of trade do we want? Do we want to present something as a European Union? Do we want to be able to explain how international trade in this world should work, that the whole world should be oriented towards our standards – which we agree on here, which we very much appreciate –? Do we want to lose time, to fall back and finally to lower our standards, because we have not been proactive, because we have not made a way forward, because we have not taken the first step, a progressive step, towards a good, modern free trade agreement? I can only say: More courage and more responsibility! – This is something that the next Federal Government needs to present.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7339	Now comes Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7361	Mr President. High house! Appreciated fellow citizens – many are here today – beautiful that you are there! “The great challenges we face force all of us to work together. They cannot be dealt with by the individual countries alone in the sense of the old national thinking.” – This was said by former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in 1996 in a speech about the successful EU internal market. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is still true today. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Couragelessness of politics I call what you say! Couragelessness!]] What is the EU's internal market? – It means that we have no borders within Europe, that we have reduced customs borders, and that we have freedom of goods for trade in goods in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and our great opportunity to operate in this way is a model of success with a role to play. Europe is not in vain the second largest economy in the world today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are there, we are part of it. We need to be aware of this. In cooperation with Canada, we are now, as you all know and as has already been done several times, at the first stage. The CETA Free Trade Agreement is only at the first stage. We have a highly developed, democratic and free country as a partner with Canada. This is a partner, as one can only wish for him as an economic nation. We are an export country: 1.7 million workers, almost half of all our jobs, are already secured by export. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I say it quite clearly and clearly: Free trade is positive for an export-oriented economy. I'm even going on and saying he's essential. Six out of ten euros will be generated abroad. [[Abg. Kogler: That's all there is without contracts!]] Without free trade, there would definitely not be the prosperity we have in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: The contracts are all going back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to the report of the Constitutional Committee on People's Desire: Thank you also for being able to discuss this in this width. The initiators of popular desire say it themselves: Trade and investment agreements have always had a direct impact on the everyday life of individual citizens, workers and consumers. Thank God it is because it means that we secure prosperity with it. [[Abg. Hauser: That's what happened before! You do so...!]] ==References== There are no customs duties between Europe and Canada on September 1. The decision was right. At this point, I would like to say that we in the ÖVP have always clearly voted in favour of free trade agreements, for the people of our country, and not so, as Chancellor-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany's core, with split tongues, namely, to make a member survey at the SPÖ, in which 88 percent are opposed, and therefore to speak in Austria and to represent a different line in Brussels, with split tongues. [[Abg. Kogler: That's right, you're right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] We stand for that, we stand for free trade agreements, for people in our country. And with the right to regulation, we have the possibility that the national states themselves will determine the quality standards. This is a win-win situation for Canada, for Europe, for Austria. Thankfully, the Constitutional Committee has done good information. It is therefore necessary, once again, for all those responsible, especially all NGOs, no matter where they stand, not to incite fears, but to weigh facts and to inform them objectively. Fear is definitely not a good advice. [[Abg. Kogler: But for the escape from responsibility I do not need a counselor!]] Figures, data, facts and wise minds decide for a courageous future in Austria, for a long-term economic and prosperity policy. Mr Kogler, it will also be clear to you that investment by Austrian companies abroad needs protection. As protection has been extended, we will probably discuss this in the coming weeks, months and years. [[Abg. Kogler: No, that's in the contract! There's no such thing as that!]] – You will still be able to look at that. You yourself have said that you do not know exactly how it is formulated, and that is why we will certainly still be able to speak on this issue. [[Abg. Kogler: Again someone who has not read the contract!]] I am quite clear that politics in Austria must open up opportunities for the economy and not build opportunities. Our goal is to bring Austria back to the top in the economy. [[Abg. Kogler: But you don't need CETA!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brunner and Mr Moser.]] I am not satisfied with the average and I am not satisfied with many in my group either. With Sebastian Kurz we will succeed in bringing Austria's economy back to the top with a German chancellor Sebastian Kurz. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7521	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7545	Mr President. High house! No human is against free trade. [[Abg. Steinacker: Oh, yes!]] – No reasonable person is against free trade, only you are trying to permanently sell us these agreements as a free trade agreement. There is free trade on it, but free trade is only to a small extent inside. There are things inside that cannot find our consent. - On the one hand. On the other hand – Mr Stefan has already mentioned it, that is particularly important to me – to the popular desire with more than 560 000 signatures: Thank you very much! This is a very, very important signal from civil society. We don't like everything. Mr Stefan has already said that if CETA had not been pressured by various institutions, including various parties, of course also by the Freedom Party, then many things would not have been changed at all, especially in the arbitration courts, which are now quite proud to say that they are arbitration courts in which the judges are nominated from a pool of experts, even with appeals. That was originally quite, quite different, there were not even judges, but lawyers et cetera. To the signatorys of this popular desire: This pays off for a short or long time. This is a policy of small steps and participation in them is very, very valuable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are things in the agreement that we reject. This whole contract goes in the direction that corporations are made subjects of international law, alongside the states – we do not want – that corporations are granted the right to sue states. Unfortunately, the states have no right to sue corporations if they are beyond human rights, security requirements or, for example, environmental requirements. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] This is a disparity that is not acceptable. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] Companies can also complain if they are limited in their ownership. Now is the big question: Are there also lost profits or expected profits? – Not yet, but it is always manifested. However, we need to know legally that living agreements are living agreements, that is, something that is really unknown to our legal understanding. Who can guarantee us that, as part of the further development of these agreements, the concept of expected profits is also subsumed under this active complaint legitimation? – Then we have a monster problem, so to speak, because Coca-Cola will sue us because we have legal regulations that this healthy drink, for example, should not be given in school canteens. I see this very, very critically, we all see it very, very critically. This goes in a direction of the basic classification of living agreements, so to speak, the cow has been removed from the stable and any democratic control. That's it, and we don't want it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This contradicts Article 1 of our federal constitution, the “right goes forth from the people. ” This is also diametrically contrary to the fundamental access of the Freedom Party to the active participation of the people in many political expression-building processes, in so far as one of our coalition conditions is also a significant increase in the participation of the population in these processes, a significant expansion of direct democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These treaties go exactly in the opposite direction, so we reject them. Just like a clinic clause, which means that privatisations that have been made can no longer be reversed. This is a restriction on democratic freedom and democratic self-determination. It would be impossible to establish democratically: This privatisation was a mistake, we want to review it in the knowledge of the experiences we have made. - That's not what happened. So this is always about the same thing: These treaties restrict our right to self-determination, restrict the power of the people and the people and delegate this power to any commissions and expert groups that then develop contracts, actually speak law, which then binds millions of Europeans and no longer allows for any democratic correction. These are fundamental things that we, as democrats, reject as a liberal, and that is why there is a clear position on our part against CETA and TTIP.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7620	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7641	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At first, a great thank you to the initiators of popular desire, to Mayor Thumpser and his colleagues, who have shown, in unprecedented commitment, how many hundreds of thousands of citizens in this country, that the foundation can rise and raise their word when it is necessary. It is necessary to raise the vote and I would like to express this thanks again. [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] As one of those delegates who has conducted discussions with Canada's chief negotiator Steve Verheul and the Canadian trade minister Chrystia Freeland or with the American TTIP negotiator Bryant Trick in this House, in the Austrian Parliament, I can say: Yes, CETA is a Trojan horse. It is a trojan horse in whose belly does not sit the cunning odysseus, no, in whose belly the lobbyists of Bayer, Monsanto, Walmart and the European automotive industry sit. Yes, they are in this contract! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the Roman Senate, Cicero had said the following in plenary: Cui bono? We have discussed this again and again in this House. Who really does it use? Let us not scatter sand into the eyes of the population, ladies and gentlemen, let us not scatter sand into her eyes! It is clear that the influence of the companies is not restricted but expanded. Article 25.2: The precautionary principle in the field of genetic engineering is being eroded. – The precautionary principle is one of our core concerns for which I have fought for almost two decades in this House. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I recall that Canada, the USA and Argentina have sued the European Union twice, once in the hormone meat scandal and once in the genetic engineering field. Both times they won before the WTO. Who believes that our precautionary principle will be enforced in international arbitration decisions, if not even the word "precautionary principle" appears in the text of the Treaty? Mr Mahrer, there is no word in the text of the Treaty about the precautionary principle, no word on it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That's just clear, you can't disprove. That's why there is also this sideboard, this funny, long explanation, which is everything and not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Sand in the eyes of the people, in the eyes of the population! – We need to get out of sight this sand! Thank you again to the initiators. Thank you for the many good debates with the experts at the hearings, the surveys in the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of investors, the special claims rights are not acceptable. We cannot let democracy be destroyed by an international deregulation policy. This has nothing to do with trade, but with deregulation, and that is, in the end, laws are no longer passed in Parliament, but in backrooms of some officials, some lobbyist associations. We don't want that, Minister Mahrer! We don't want to malign, we don't want to be beautiful, we don't want to be patient. We want things on the table. The Austrian population has the right to do so! [[In the case of the Greens, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] [[Mr Kogler and Mr Steinhauser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also need to lose some personal words, that is my last speech here in this house. I am the first to start the reign of a few farewell speeches, as I suppose. On this occasion I would like to look back very briefly: 18 years of political work, an exciting time. I don't want to miss a day. I remember very well Black-Blue I, the sale of the Federal Forests, should have sold 40 000 hectares. We fought against it, we stopped it, we prevented it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For more than 20 years, Austria has been a giant circus; for the right of self-determination of the regions, I have walked from Upper Austria to Brussels, which we, Mr Rupprechter, have negotiated with each other. That was one of the few positive things we have negotiated with each other. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Yes, that was positive, namely the framework law on the ban on genetic engineering. That is what we decided during this legislative period, which was a good step in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Last week, together with colleagues Kogler, with colleague Brunner, we reached the pesticides ban – Neons, Glyphosate – that is, a great success where we have shown that the opposition in cooperation with civil society is feasible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo, Wolfgang!]] Good parliamentary work is necessary here and now! I could continue this for a long time, but it is also very important for me to express my personal thanks. Of course, that's where my family is at the top. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The back cover of a family that is behind a Member or a Member of Parliament, we must not forget, is necessary for a partnership to be able to do this work in the public sector. I would also like to express my warm thanks to Parliament's director, in particular Parliament Director Dossi, Vice-Director Janistyn-Novák and Wintoniak. Support in this house has always been excellent in these 18 years. That also belongs to words and not blasphemy, but it is clearly said: We have this support. [[We welcome the Greens, MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS, as well as non-coupling Members.]] A special thank you, of course, is my personal staff, and Jens Karg, with whom I have worked excellently for the last six years. Thank you, Jens, for all the Green Club staff and, of course, my group. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Thank you very much also to Mr Zinggl, Mr Pilz and Mr Rossmann, which I say very clearly. Of course, you too, Karl, are there for a long time too, all colleagues. [[in the direction of the Abg. Parent]] It was a wonderful work, and you should not forget that at this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The words of praise are spoken enough, let me make a brief appeal to this paradigm change – something that is important to me; if I leave Parliament, the political debate continues; it continues in civil society, in society, in Europe, in a great challenge, so to speak, in the primacy of politics! Let's not just talk about politics. This is up to every Member here in this House. Politics is the requirement that we have a democratic discourse and that not lobbyists pay everything. We should be very careful, even here in the house, who can be paid by whom. This is an important point, ladies and gentlemen, which we should not forget. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pillow.]] ==References== At the end of the century climate change will certainly be the outstanding issue, there will be no doubt at all, and it will also be the phase of global development in which the population will reach its maximum. 2070 or 2080 or 2090 there will be nine or ten billion people – a huge challenge, ladies and gentlemen! We therefore no longer need freedom for the corporations and the financial industry, but we need more freedom for citizens and more protection for biological and natural resources. We need this protection, because only then will we have enough resources to ensure that our children and grandchildren can live adequately and that we can develop this planet in the next century. We must start at the beginning of this century and we must not wonder at the end that it is already too late. In this sense, I wish you every good thing in this work. I would like to thank you once again for the good cooperation in all areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7794	Mr Pirklhuber, thank you very much and very much for your future. Mr Schellhorn has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7818	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I can also thank Wolfgang Pirklhuber. I am also sorry that you, Wolfgang, have been chosen from your own group, because your expertise has always impressed me, even if we have not always agreed. [[Calls for Greens]] I am sorry that we will no longer be sitting together in the Committee on Agriculture. I'm so sorry about your excretion. What are we talking about today? . We are now talking about the best trade agreement negotiated by all 59, and what we have heard so far was actually only fear scenarios. We've heard of the bad companies. Conclusion: In Austria, due to these protection mechanisms, there must be no companies negotiating with Canadian investors, although these protection mechanisms also exist if they negotiate with one of the other 58 countries, as has been said, in the framework of poorly negotiated agreements. They also have a protection function, and this should be supported. We've heard of nuclear power, we've heard of arbitrators, we've heard from evil lobbyists. All of these are inconsistencies. We have not heard of two things, namely the Western Balkans route and its closure. This issue has already been excluded in the first moment, but it will certainly come. Otherwise everything has been said, otherwise all fear scenarios have been listed. Mr Stefan, on this Es-Könte-Sein: It could also fall from heaven again, it has already happened to you before, but I believe that we should not be friends of the fear scenario, but take advantage of this opportunity. A printing company at Lofer, for example, Stefan – that is, Stefan – has concluded a production contract without a trade agreement with Canada with the McDonald’s Group; it is about printing wood decor plates. This company would be extremely beneficial if this trade agreement were to be extended to the entire American market. She'd save her licenses. It has so far had no difficulties, nor any difficulties with arbitration. This is strengthening growth and this is strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises also in Austria, and not coming with fear scenarios. If you say – and that is what Green and Blue have said or have complained – that even the Members have been too little informed that too little information has been provided, how can you let the people decide about it? How do you want to do this if there is too little information for you? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's NEOS, that's clear!]] That is, you have to think about how to eliminate these fear scenarios. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is your pride! Just wear the nose quite high, yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is pride!]] – You can also talk then! It was a question of: A trading group has spoken against it, so to speak: We are opposed because we may have self-interest. The small format “Kronen Zeitung” has sprang up, then there was a citizens’ initiative from a mayor who has a large company in his hometown, a large industrial company that benefits from it, then there was a vote by the SPÖ, 14 000 supporters – and then the big crash came! I think we have to think about it, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not fall into populism and fear scenarios, that we perceive the chance of action and do not lose your fear scenarios, for your example Switzerland has completely failed! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's where we always take a look at the Haselsteiner!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7913	Mr Mahrer has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e7934	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I would also like to thank the 562 378 signatorys of popular desire and Mr Thumpser. I think it's only right and cheap to do that – for a simple reason: We were all in common – all political groups, many European countries and Member States – for greater transparency in these negotiations. That was a real criticism, and that is to be addressed. As part of the finalisation of the negotiations, clarification of this common interpretation instrument has succeeded in eliminating a whole range of scopes for interpretation. This would not have been possible if there had not been a broad movement of citizens in Austria, but also in other European countries. And that is certainly in part – you have to see it across Europe – your merit, but also the merit of many other initiatives, which have just pointed out that there are things that you need to talk about that you need to clarify. This common interpretation instrument, which cannot be easily worked out, makes some of these things clear, and I would like to point out a few of these points once again. Then to colleagues Schellhorn, who said it wasn't always all black and white, not everything in reality always clearly fixed: This is precisely the purpose of this common instrument of interpretation, in order to put things out of dispute, as regards those which are clearly set out in Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, in the context of the precautionary principle, which is clearly defined in Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, it is stated that they are not called into question because, in specific points, within the framework of environmental standards or the standards of worker protection, it is precisely to refer to how this should be interpreted. In this respect, clarifications have been made by different experts who have joined the Committee. Moreover, this was a debate that has been held in many Member States over the last few months, because these questions, such as how to handle them, were open in many Member States. I would like to take a very explicit point that is worth being clarified. Special rights for corporations are always discussed, and this has been debated in the Committee. It is about the possibility of calling on a national court within the framework of a cross-border contract – because no matter what size class, we always do not have to call upon companies to do so, we know that – a specific additional one – precisely because it is not possible to create an independent body, with right of appeal, on the basis of a complaint defined in a single contract between one country and another. The decisive thing now is: What kind of right is that? We're always talking about investments, but what does that mean? – A company that operates in one country, we take Austria, an Austrian company, goes to another country, in the case of Canada, and decides, for example, to set up a production site there, because, for example, it would be absurd for logistics costs, but also in the sense of environmental standards, to use a product that could be produced in the context of the Linz–Well industrial cluster, to skip across the entire Atlantic and then sell there, but because it makes sense to use Austrian know-how, part of Austrian experts plus additional employees there to produce on site. So you buy a property, you build a production plant and then sell it on the American subcontinent. It's about exactly such a case. It is about investment by an Austrian company in Canada – it is not about financial investment, but about real-time investment – which is building production facilities there, and then perhaps – that would be a specific case – the Canadian government would have an idea, and the Canadian Parliament would then pass a law that could, or might perhaps even lead to expropriation. That is, well, a very unrealistic case, but one makes laws and treaties into unrealistic cases, or for those who may be quite, very rare. Then the question arises: How does the Austrian company get to its right? Unlike in the past, after a massive debate and after many questions regarding the existing regulations, the agreement now provides for a new form of bringing this right, i.e. investment-oriented, independent, impartial investment courts to be occupied with judges, including an appeal body. It's new, it's different, we haven't had it so far. At European level, we have also agreed to develop this even further in order to come to a multilateral investment court, which means further qualitative improvement at all, across many countries and through many cross-contractual arrangements. We have also given ourselves a uniform view – all of Europe – that the greater transparency than the national procedures so far in relation to the consultation of the respective parties to the dispute would bring about evidence of what is really being negotiated in court. This is actually a qualitative gain, although I say that this is perhaps a very rare case, an unlikely case. But it's not just about big companies. I don't know if you would assign the company Palfinger, which has a production facility in Canada, or the company Doublemayr to the internationally insanely powerful corporations. If they were threatened there, they would have a chance to get their right. [[Abg. Steinhauser: In Canada!]] – In Canada. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Well, that's a working rule of law!]] This is mutual, of course, because it is a multilateral agreement, a agreement between the European Union and all the Member States and Canada. This qualitative progress has to be made simply in this area. Mr Kogler has referred to the fact that we have held very objective, very well-kept debates, for which I would like to thank you very much as always. However, I would like to take one point, when it comes to the balance between entrepreneurial freedom and design opportunities, which are intended to secure jobs and create new ones, to create prosperity, tax performance, and social and environmental responsibility. Here I keep asking myself the question – the Treaty clearly secures this and the interpretation of the instrument makes this clear again –: Has the Austrian House and some Member or some Member of Parliament ever been influenced in a decision of it or feared what some non-European company would think of? - No! I don't think there's any case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] I don't know anything. I don't believe this, and I hope that even in the next legislative period of loud independent... [[Further calls to the Greens.]] It is about intervention into the possibility to regulate nationally, whether or not you want something, and it is not in the form. And I am sure that the Austrian Parliament will certainly not be influenced by anyone outside Europe in the next legislative period on matters of common good in all areas – health, care, infrastructure and whatever, environmental standards, labour protection standards – and certainly not by any other Member State of the European Union, because it is binding on Austrians. So I don't understand these fears in any way. That's your own self-confidence. You are bound by the Austrian Constitution, our legal system, and you will act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8000	It is now up to the honourable Member to report on the matter of jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8021	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that CETA and the Free Trade Agreements in general are a very important institution for us to insist on international trade. We've heard it today: Free trade, yes, that brings us something, that should bring us forward, but when it comes to rights and obligations when it comes to detail, then it is too intrusive, too much, please not! – I have to tell you quite honestly, it is important for entrepreneurs who have a responsibility to their employees, to the company in general, that, when they are engaged in international trade, they also have a legal framework in which they can move. The countless trade agreements offer this security. I think it's quite, very important that you can develop a little bit further. Something has definitely brought about popular desire: the discussion on the CETA agreement and thus more transparency and movement in the presentation. We should not, however, permanently use false arguments. When we talk at CETA about the great challenge of climate change, that is not true. There is its own sustainability chapter at CETA because it is about how these trade movements are ultimately built up environmentalally. There is sustainability for forest management in both Canada and Europe, sustainability in fisheries. How could our little Austria influence this? We often criticize in climate debates that deforestation, routings are taking place somewhere on the Amazon or elsewhere. In this way, we have the opportunity to cooperate as Europeans, as Austrians in the European context. It is important to speak with one voice in order to be able to establish solid framework conditions. The Mercosur Agreement is a trade agreement that will expire in the near future and which is also in European negotiation. We face major problems in these negotiations with the South American states. It could only be hoped that CETA's architecture will also be applied to this agreement. We have managed at CETA – and these are also those associations that you call evil lobbyists – that, for example, agricultural associations have introduced red lines at customs duties and when importing food from other countries. We also need to renegotiate this at Mercosur, but we need these associations to act accordingly. If we want an agriculture that can produce, we must also give it the means to do so. We also have the subject of glyphosate today discussed. One can now discuss the scientific findings, but there has been a political, democratic decision here in the house, and this is not to be discussed. This decision has been adopted, and that is what must be done. But one thing I would like to say: On the one hand, if you take the means out of hand in the production of agriculture, on the other hand, in trade and in the market, you do not take precautions to ensure that it can also exist there that our ally, the consumer, recognizes how many different foods have been produced and produced, then the hypocrisy and hypocrisy really cannot be surpassed. We need the possibility – and also the CETA agreement gives us the opportunity to enforce a corresponding labelling of food. It is important that the consumer, as a partner of the economy, can also look at European companies, and that there is no need to fear and fear products from all over the world, if we pay more attention to the framework conditions, but have the whole in mind. Not only to limit production in our country, if that is the desire of one or the other, but also to see that the market has control, it needs these agreements, and I think it is really important to discuss them, but ultimately it is about the responsibility to weigh everything and not fall into pure populism.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8069	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8091	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to join with my previous speakers in saying that it is not a question of creating fear or fearing us, as Mr Mahrer said, but it is a question of having a popular desire in front of us, on which gratefully more than 560 000 people have thought about how Austria and the European Union, together with foreign partners, continue to trade, to what extent, how and in what form. And these many people have come to the conclusion that there are huge criticisms that must also be expressed and stressed vehemently and that they indicate what it is to be changed. This is not a question of fear, it is not a question of fear of any foreign corporations, it is a question of analyzing meticulously and penetratingly what is contained in this agreement. And even if Mr Wittmann, in his speech, said that it was possible to make many points by the Chancellor, to get these points into the Treaty with a accompanying text, as he said, I must vehemently object here, because the text of the Treaty itself has not changed in any point and in no way in any way. The text of the contract is black and white in its original form. That means what we need to talk about here is the basic contract, is the contract itself. We are talking about content as well as, among other things, the regulatory competence that we as the Austrian state are letting ourselves go if we go towards investment protection when, at once, it is in the foreground that, if we want to make a law on the protection of the environment, consumer rights et cetera, we may eventually have complaints in our home. It is also about arbitration, which has also been discussed in the Constitutional Committee. In the case of arbitration, it is important to exclude national rule of law from making differences between domestic and foreign companies, depending on the legal nature of the companies. It is also about the fact that this CETA Treaty includes a Joint Committee, which can further develop the text of the Treaty and the work of the Treaty. That is, he can amend the agreement without democratic legitimacy by national parliaments and without democratic legitimacy by the EU Parliament, which means that he would have powers without legitimacy in the background. This is a gradual erodement of democracy, as we know it, and we take a piece of our own sovereignty, we would simply accept these events and these events. It's not about fear, it's about considering, it's about analysing this contract. It also said that the text of interpretation, which was annexed to the CETA Agreement, was drawn up by the Federal Chancellor, would establish a mixed agreement, which would ultimately mean that this accompanying text would enable ratification by the national parliaments. But then I wonder: Where is this possibility of ratification?- Oh, my God! There was the pretext for the decision of early or provisional entry into force, that we as a national Parliament have the opportunity to ratify it afterwards, but then I wonder: Where is this possibility? – At the margins of the EU summit in Estonia, Federal Chancellor Core has stated that he fully supports the CETA Agreement, the EU's free trade agreement with Canada, and he also made it clear on the verge of this EU summit that he does not want the Austrian Parliament to vote on this agreement – although it was previously the pretext to agree to the provisional entry into force, because the national parliaments can vote on it anyway. In any event, the Federal Chancellor wants to prevent the agreement from being rejected in the National Council because it is so important for Austria's export industry, he announced on Friday on the verge of the EU summit in Tallinn. I really want to quote him literally: “We are in a situation where there is currently no opportunity in Parliament to reach a positive decision,” said Core on a standard of why the Government does not submit the Ceta Treaty to the National Council for ratification. If I do, it will be rejected. Then Ceta is dead, the whole project failed,’ argues German Chancellor Kern in an interview with the “Standard”. We therefore seem to have to do with an attitude here that a parliament, in which 183 democratically elected Members vote, should be consulted only if the result...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8136	Madam President, you still have a few seconds to speak and, as I believe, you want to make another motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8151	... the Federal Chancellor is pleased – thank you very much, Mr President. This is what I want and do not want to accept, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8218	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8285	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8306	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 1 of the agenda deals with the report of the Constitutional Committee on this very important and sensitive popular desire. 562 379 people have signed this popular desire against TTIP, CETA – this, we have heard, is already in force – and TiSA, which is exactly 8.87 percent of the rightful people in Austria. Even more important would be a binding referendum in such a sensitive area. One, ladies and gentlemen, you can't talk small and talk away: The large corporations and lobbyists are to be opened here, this is out of question. If there were no doubts, Mr Schellhorn, why did the European Commission launch the negotiations both from TTIP and from CETA behind closed doors? This process totally eliminates the rights of the national states and puts them out of force. My previous speaker rightly said: In this way, democracy will be severely cut down. The regulatory board, the standstill clause and the blocking clause are dangers not to mention the dispute resolution procedure, which allows foreign investors to sue States in international arbitration courts. And the best thing at all is: If this is a living agreement, it can be negotiated, for example, in the purchase of urban works or the like without democratic control in retrospect. We do not support this process from the Free List of Austria. We need a binding referendum here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8346	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8367	Mr President. High house! The 562,000 signers of this popular desire did not make it easy, because they first had to obtain the information they had been aware of, they understood to read between the lines, and they realized that it was not a mere trade agreement, but – like those who negotiated it – they said it was more than that. In reality – that is what previous speakers have already said – I do not have to go into it again – this agreement puts the primacy of politics on the head. As important as it is to bring economic links into its political decisions, however, it is also clear that man is not only a homo-economic but rather a political being – and he should be, a zoopolitan. However, the initiators and the signatorys deserved a somewhat more valuable treatment than a mere debate in committees and here in Parliament – and then it is gone again from the table. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hagen, Mr Franz and Mr Doppler.]] It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the FPÖ, that a popular survey is: Wash my fur, but don't wet me! [[Abg. Kogler: No, she's just...!]] It is not binding, and it is quite clearly due to your efforts not to betray and face future coalition partners. [[Abg. Kickl: Jessas!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But we are against fast shots!]] That's pretty obvious. If one were in Switzerland, then it would look like this – that is why we are also for direct democracy according to Swiss patterns –: A hundred thousand of those entitled to vote in favour of this could put them on the agenda. [[Abg. Kogler: But in Switzerland can...!]] There would be a publicly funded voting book, from demagogy, pro and counter. People could take a picture, it would decide, and the decision would be binding. We don't have that yet, we have to commit ourselves to that. What we now have is the opportunity of Parliament to apply for a referendum, and I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8510	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosary is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please. Ladies and gentlemen, if you may wonder about the long time to vote: Speakers have been reported over and over again – that was of course not foreseeable. [[Abg. Bitch: How many more?]] – I currently have four speakers on the speaker list, including Leopold Steinbichleroch. [[Abg. Bravo, Leo! Nice in the white shirt!]] Mr Steinbichler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8558	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a photo on the speaker’s desk showing a rally to read on a transparent “CETA + TTIP!”]] I took an older panel with me, because from the beginning I worked with Gernot Almesberger on the network that is directed against CETA and TTIP. There has even been a decision by the national conference – only to know who could change his mind; I do not say “must”, I say, “must”. I continue with this poster because it is comparable to this morning and the environmental debate, with the eradication of rural areas, with the destruction of rural areas. [[a picture of the speaker’s desk, on which a farm and before it a sign with the inscription “closed due to US competition” can be seen]] Ladies and gentlemen, at some point these pictures will be left to us. Everyone will mention that he has grown up on a farm, since there have been animals in the past, then there have only been more regulations. Let me explain why, in Austria, if we are supposed to have 150 percent beef production, we need Argentine and Brazilian beef from the most brutal mass animal farming! Wolfgang Pirklhuber then showed these graveyard pictures, in which tens of thousands of cattle fed with hormones and genetic engineering cocktails were seen, which are then presented to us in a magnificently well-kept cultural landscape as domestic food. This is not free trade, it is fraud, and that is what it is about, Mr Singer. You always want to scandalize everything. No, a fair, fair, fair free trade, I think, is all right, but no more speculative. We need to know – I have already said this in the environmental debate – what enormous environmental pollution we have through senseless transports, because some 50 times around the world is transported until it ends up where someone who does the smallest business works with it. A kilogram of wheat is traded 55 times on the commodity and option dates, ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality! And it's true when it's said here that we open the corporations, the speculant door and gate. I can give you an example: Apple juice. Minister Rupprechter did it – I wanted to discuss this question with him –: Today, one can find another Upper Austrian company in the business section of the “Kronen Zeitung” to India, which is now gasing in China. The next time he will donate a million; more and more remains of the yield. Please read the Group Report, we read the Group Atlas, which wages are paid there, in these countries where we have produced or where we obtain goods! There are payers paid, and then we discuss refugee flows here. People there can't live out of it, they have to flee! That is why we need to question these agreements much more, or we need to ask who needs them. – We have excellent companies in Austria, excellent products that have won the world market without agreements. My colleague, it's not populism at all! Or, as Mr Singer said, Made in Austria is at risk. – Made in Austria does not say anything at all, just as it is made in Austria. What's going on with the apple juice? Most of the apple juice concentrate is imported from India and from other Asian countries, much more than we export – and then sometime the red and white-red Austrian flag is on it. We need to discuss this: From when can you declare something as an Austrian product? Is it enough if it was eventually touched in Austria? Is it already Austrian quality then? – That's how we risk this location in Austria! Just by these measures, we are endangering this real red-and-white brand, this location Austria is sustainable! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Doppler and Mr Franz.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, has the Quality Seal Act been postponed in this House since 2009? The most important law in the food sector has been postponed since 2009! Who can imagine if a water pipeline is defective at home to run it since 2009? Who can imagine delaying a problem since 2009? - But here in this house it goes! These are the most important measures. That is why the fears and concerns of the citizens are more serious – stunned and clear – and I thank the initiators of popular desire in this context. 560 000 people have signed, that is more than one million people who declare their solidarity with it. Congratulations! I should like to thank all the citizens' initiatives, for example Franz Köck and his action 21 Austria, which is involved in us. That is exactly what we want: that the citizens and their opinions are spoken here in this House; it is about the opinion of the citizens and not the opinion of the lobbyists. I should therefore like to read one of our principles, a principle of the Whites, namely, principle 1: “The power goes from the people. The people decide. Honest democracy, no sublime democracy. Real and true representation of the state people." In this sense, I ask for a reasonable decision on 15 May. October.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8612	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8634	Mr President. Minister! High house! Democracy means that the people are always right, ladies and gentlemen, and if you look a little over the border, across Switzerland, you can see that it works well when you say that the people are right. And if the people are right, the politicians have to address it. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Franz.]] Anyone who knows the Swiss system knows that if the government does not do anything, the people will be questioned and the people will decide. And if we let the whole thing happen again, why we as MEPs are sitting here in Parliament, then we know that we have been sent to the people for the people and are sitting here as representatives of the citizens. Now you can say: Yes, okay, we just decide over the people now!, but there are fundamental decisions that I believe the people themselves should make, and here, at CETA/TTIP, we have such a point. Let's look at this. 562 379 signatures were made – 562 378 without mine. Since I can't thank myself, I thank this 562 378 who signed this popular desire with me. This is a clear language, ladies and gentlemen, and a clear sign, and we should take this seriously. I have heard in the Constitutional Committee a number of experts who have clearly said where the cracks lie, where there can be problems and there will be problems and that these decisions will not be made for the people. That is why we should also put this agreement on the table. We know exactly what the procedure has been chosen around this contract: He was put on, one was not allowed to photograph there and else to do nothing; he was not even properly translated. You had to read yourself as a Member of Parliament in a time period in which you could not do so – you have to say that honestly. One rules by the people, that is why I believe that even in a decision as big as CETA is, it is quite, quite clearly in the first place, to question the people – but not only to question, but there must be a binding referendum. For this reason, I have also given my signature to Mr Rosenkranz's request to make a real decision on this matter binding on the people. Such binding referendums are very good, ladies and gentlemen. I have initiated popular elections several times in my home community, then I have won them because I have informed the people, and it has always been good for the people. When I go through the church today, people tell me quite clearly that this was a good decision – they also made this decision! That is why we should let the people decide more, ladies and gentlemen – I think that would be very, very important – and we should not rule over the people. I've already cut the Swiss system. Especially as Vorarlberger on the Swiss border, I get a lot with it, and I think that the people there are very likely to decide very wisely. That is why we should really ask the people about CETA/TTIP. We can... I believe that it is with good conscience that the people will make a good decision – and then this decision must be binding. This is a very, very important point for me. [[Congratulations to Mr Franz and Mr Barbara Rosenkranz.]] I wonder if we are talking here in Parliament about whether we are Austrian citizens and Austrian taxpayers so much less powerful than Swiss citizens if we want to abstain from this decision from the Austrians. You have to ask yourself that! I believe that the Austrians will decide very wisely and well and in the sense of their taxpayers and their wallet. You will make a good decision. As has been said, many experts have already been asked about this in the Constitutional Committee. These have made a clear statement in the direction of popular decision, in the direction that this CETA or TTIP contract is not quite in order. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, at the last National Council meeting of this legislative period to give the people this freedom of choice now, so that it does not only have it on Sunday, on which it should do its crusade with the right ones. Let us ask the people, because the people are always right, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8704	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8725	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In this popular desire or even at the CETA/TTIP theme complex, a funny feeling – which obviously shares 560 000 Austrians – is a bit wrong. One gets the impression that there's going to be muzzled, there's something decided over the people in the back, that's not supposed to be. As a bourgeois, liberal person, I am absolutely for free trade, for good, beautiful and decent trade zones, but I am not in favour of the negotiation and determination of the contract convoluted, which only few people understand and contain small-printed parts that almost nobody understands except transatlantic lawyers. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrary]] That is why we should re-roll this whole story and think about what is being negotiated at all. Is it a question of eliminating European countries, European farms, European farmers, Austrian farmers, Austrian farms, to supply them to the all-power of the groups? Should imbalances be created so that trade can no longer function as it is intended, namely that two equal partners exchange over a value called money? I think it is very important that the government and those who are familiar with it – unfortunately only a few of God’s people so far – inform the people of Austria in detail. I also believe that this cannot be done and that we need a referendum on this subject. Above all, the topic of nutrition, water supply, as laid down in CETA, TTIP et cetera, I consider it highly problematic as a doctor, father and Austrian citizen, because, in my humble opinion, there is the possibility that one day we will be supplied with cloning meat, and I don't think anyone's inside here. I also see other dangers in terms of water supply and so on. The only way to achieve a decent, trustworthy regulation – without wanting to introduce a regulation – is to bring these questions to a referendum – after previous in-depth information to the population. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8777	Mr Mahrer, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests in the High House! It has now been said several times that the Federal Government does not want to present the agreement to Parliament for ratification. - Please don't! I would also like to explain why this is so – I have already done so in committee – why there is a process that needs to be structured. By the Council of Ministers Decision of 18 December 1998, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, of the European Communities and of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union and of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations and of the United Nations, of the United Nations and of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of America, of the United Nations, of America, of the United Nations, of America, of the United Nations, of America and of the United Nations. In addition to the conditions under which the Treaty was signed at the time, October 2016 also stated that we would have to wait for final ratification, which is still to be clarified on the basis of the common interpretation instrument already in place at that time, before it can be ratified at all. It would be strange to ratify it if it were not yet finally available, what one should ratify or what the detailed provisions look like. This has always been called upon by the initiators and supporters of popular desire, in the sense of transparency. That means: How can you finally ratify something you don't know what it looks like in detail? A central point was: What does that look like in detail with this new investment court? – The experts in the Committee have reported this in detail, but of course also the specialists in our House, who are in constant agreement with the Trade Policy Committee for this detailed design, but above all with the representatives of the Commission, with which they are the Directorate-General, because this is now in negotiations with the Canadians. What are we talking about in detail? . I should like to quote point 6(f) from the Common Instrument for Interpretation: ‘The European Union and its Member States and Canada have agreed to include without delay the further work on a code of conduct aimed at ensuring the impartiality of the members of the courts in the nature and level of their remuneration and in the procedure for selecting them.’ That is to say, it is precisely this additional level of transparency that has been called for: How does this court and the appeal agency work? How are the procedures to run there? How were the judges rewarded? – Mr Stefan, who has asked, has already been mentioned several times today: How does that even work in detail? Will they be given a small salary and then paid after cases, or will they be secured by another variant of their actual ineffectibility, so that there is no way of somehow getting into a form of economic dependence? In particular, how does the code of ethics, the moral code of conduct that has been repeatedly called upon by many organizations, look like? When this process is completed, it will be possible in the Member States to see that there is an OK to present it. Then, of course, one will also have to put this in a text, and that can be the common basic situation – as I said, we must agree with the Canadians – and then last but not least to judge it. Today was once spoken of by a Trojan horse. In this case, you have to talk about a Potemkinschen village, because you don't know what's hidden behind the headlines. No one wants to know the headlines, but we want to know in detail what the ordering process looks like, we want to know in detail what the remuneration concept looks like, we want to know in detail what the code of ethics looks like, what you can do about it. What we know today is that there will be 15 judges who will not be determined by the parties as before, but by the parties – five from Canada, five from Member States of the European Union and five from other countries – and six judges will sit in the appeal body. Otherwise, as has been said, it is not really detailed. There are just many questions open, and these questions have to be clarified in detail. There is another point that we have discussed in the Committee, which has now been discussed several times and on which all initiators and signatorys of popular desire deserve a clear word – Member Brunner has always attracted this topic –: What about the Paris climate agreement? That's where you have to say it's unclear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] It is unclear, as the Common Instrument refers to this, but there is also a certain logic which I believe must be explained objectively, because the actual text of the Treaty or the negotiations have, of course, been concluded before the Treaty was signed in Paris in December 2015. Now, of course, the negotiators and therefore all the Member States and the Commission can be blamed: Well, you would have had time to address this question in more detail in the definition of the Common Instrument for Interpretation. The right thing is: There is a reference; from an eco-social responsibility one would have to say that it might have been more extensive. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Lip confession! Mr. Minister, these are lip confessions without substance!]] At this stage, point 9(c) of the Joint Interpreting Instrument is as follows: “CETA contains commitments in relation to the sustainable management of forests and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture management.” – This is more extensive in the Treaty text. – “It also includes commitments to cooperate on trade-related environmental issues of common interest such as climate change, where the implementation of the Paris Convention will represent an important common responsibility for the European Union and its Member States and Canada.” Mr deputies, yes, it is true that there will have to be more detailed debates on this issue, even though one has to say that it has so far been unusual – so far; that is not a criminal, if it has been unusual, one can change such a state – that there has never been a clear link and a clear link between climate-political multilateral agreements with certain self-remitments and international trade agreements. I believe, however, that the Paris Treaty, the agreement of COP 21 in Paris, suggests that you devote yourself to this more in detail. We should do that in Austria too! There was an evaluation committee in France on the impact of CETA on the environment, climate and health – this is certainly a debate that the House will have to conduct in the next legislative period with experts and with the relevant ministries – and it has made a number of recommendations. Two proposals for recommendations are not quite undisputed, not even in France, but still interesting: For example, it is said that instead of the investment courts, the parties themselves should decide whether or not climate action challenges would be possible. It must be said that this is already very specialized. This, in turn, concerns the question of the protection of an investment and a somewhat frustrated profit expectation. If anyone changes a standard, then we do not know that – but we do not know exactly how the self-commitments in the field of climate protection would be. I'd mean, Yeah, that's worth a debate. I have also referred to it in the Committee's wake. I think it takes a suitable forum. It is laid down in the environmental chapters that civil society is involved, but one could say, of course, that if one reflects on it, in the light of the Paris Agreement: This is perhaps too little if you look at the global climate change changes and if you look at what meaning this can have for all of us. Especially as a small country that feels committed to an eco-social market economy, we could set accents in the next legislative period, perhaps also in cooperation with the High House – the National Council and the Federal Council – with an ever-designed Federal Government. [[Abg. Brunner:... already tried in this period!]] I would like to say once again: It would be a peculiar element to date, since there has not yet been such an additional provision on climate policy commitments or common climate agreements referred to in trade agreements; but only because it is unusual does it not mean that it should not be done in this form. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Do not ratify! Do not ratify this Parliament! That's the logical consequence!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: Is there a suitable instrument for this? – Of course, you have to see that regardless of the ratification. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You talk a lot and don't say anything!]] Is it technically sensible and possible to do that? – There are not even detailed ideas on this at European level, including all Member States. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the French evaluation committee also says that it is something in addition to a ratified Treaty because it is a new, complementary instrument. It is a complementary instrument that must be linked to the existing Treaty. Against this background: Yes, it is a new instrument, and it would make sense to think about it – in this sense certainly a task for the High House and the next Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8891	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e8915	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! We have all been elected to this House because we have been commissioned to work together to develop rules that are to apply to the Austrians. That is why we are also called mandates, because the word mandate means Commissioner. [[Abg. Kickl: You are Special Representative today!]] With this mission, we have tried in recent years to create solutions together. Some things we can be proud of, some things have been difficult, and some have just been wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, we not only make rules here, we also make rules in the EU. We ask our representatives at European level, the Commission, but also our own people, the Federal Chancellor and the Ministers, to join the Council for us. We have done this again and again in the question of CETA. All that has been developed at European level has been done by our government on behalf of this House by Austria. There's nothing we need to think about, we're responsible for everything! We don't need to go out now and say: And now, after the whole thing's done, we're making a referendum. – No, now we make a choice in which we ask if we will all be given an assignment for the next legislative period. It's just about standing in front of our voters and saying: Did we do well? Do you want us to work for you again in the future? There are some who have appeared and have said: I promise you, I'm against everything! I'm sure I'm against everything! – Only, the watch could not stop you, the world has turned on, life has developed. Others have said again: I'm for something! I am in favour of Austria developing well, that our economy can grow and that we can finance more social prosperity, that we can develop young people well and that we offer opportunities to maintain social peace in our country. For those colleagues who are for something, it was important that this trade agreement with Canada be concluded. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It is nice that the citizens see what you stand for!]] With Canada, a country in which so many people have similar interests to ours, a trade agreement can be a great common European achievement – for the simple reason that we can be so strong together in Europe that we make the world with Europe. Who's to do that? – I ask you: [[Abg. Steinhauser: A farmer's alliance best!]] Who's to do that? Is Mr. Trump supposed to do it? Will Mr Putin do it? Should anyone do it from Egypt or perhaps some Muslims who want to terrorize us? - No, I'm sure not! It must be Europe! Europe, which in a great common foremovement for a good future in this world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we now have a common treaty with Canada, in which we not only negotiate whether there are customs duties or not, but in which we also negotiate how we jointly develop things in a world in which new rules are invented every day, this should not, nevertheless, become haxels, but common new rules that are applicable, and then it is a treaty that can be a model for many other treaties in which there is no such thing. [[Abg. Kogler: 1 500 pages, you fly already on the fifth out of the curve!]] That alone is a reason why I am proud of our Austrian negotiators who have passed on these things during this time and have often been blamed for them at home – including Mr Faymann, I admit – who have spoken for them and can now put a result on the table. [[Abg. Stefan: Kern?- Oh, my God!]] That should be praised, one should be proud of it, and one should say: a good action for Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am saying this because I know that this Treaty regulates important points especially for agriculture, especially for medium-sized enterprises. I would like this subject to be concluded quickly, because a much more important issue is ours: If the Brexit actually comes as it is currently being discussed in England, in the UK, then it will be a cracker. Then it will not be a question of whether a judge may get some gage somewhere and is employed there or of such things that are also important, then it will be a question of whether we together have a great idea for Europe and will manage that such a large country as Great Britain is going its own way – and that at a time when other issues are being dealt with at the same time. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's why it's not possible! You didn't understand what it was all about! You're talking about something.]] The Mercosur Agreement is for the vote. If we see Mercosur and Brexit in common, then there are really questions where our ability to act is called for and where we really have to take seriously our mission to act for the people. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only call you there: Be a little brave! Be a little confident and do not be afraid above all! Think about it and have some confidence in good people! [[Abg. Kogler: You're talking completely by the thing!]] There are also some people who really rush in with their whole life, behave properly and also know how to appear in the public. Such people should be supported! I'm sorry, I looked at Mr Kogler. That was a mistake. I am convinced that we in this Parliament have an important task and take this task seriously. Personally, I am grateful that I was allowed to work here for 17 years. There are no big thanks for me now. I would like to thank the electorate who gave me the courage to act here as our people expect outside. I am grateful to the parliamentary staff, to my Petra, to Hans, to Hannes, to Kathi, to Roland; so many have already been. I have to tell you the truth: It was a good time! I'm glad I could be here, but I'm not unhappy that I'm coming to other things in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9052	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your work here in the House. I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9076	Mr President. [[Abg. Bitch: Farewell address?]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Oh, call on ODP MPs.]] – You’re on it earlier than I am! [[Call the ÖVP: We stand up for you too!]] Estimated ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: New results of SOKO?- Oh, my God!]] First of all, I address Hermann: Of course, these things always hurt, we have heard two farewell speeches here today, but at least you have been able to talk about a very important topic, namely the question of CETA and TTIP with one of the most successful popular desires. At this point, I would like to extend my thanks to Mayor Thumpser and the activists, who have already been pronounced several times. Of course, there are many from the civil society sector in Austria, trade unionists and trade unionists who have contributed to this success of nearly 600 000 signatures. What moves people? I believe – and this point has been raised several times today – that these free trade agreements will increasingly include rules that are in danger of the democratic rule of law being undermined by Parliament with its final legitimisation of popular will and will be undermined by provisions allowing others to take action against the interests of an entire country and the population. Yes, this risk exists. Now I go back to the starting position: The EU Commission wanted to maintain that it is a pure trade agreement, with the effect that it will achieve full effectiveness only after the decision of the European Parliament. It was Austria that made a significant contribution to the elimination of this danger in the hectic period until signature performance. We're not a Gallic village. There are no inhabitants in Austria called Obelix or Asterix, we may have dogs called Idefix, but we also have no Miraculix with a magic potion. [[Abg. Kickl: You have a silver stone for that!]] What we can do is get up at international level and demand that only the trading part be decided and that everything else be negotiated accordingly. I can do it briefly because Federal Minister Mahrer has already pointed this out: It was Federal Chancellor Christian Kern who enforced the so-called Joint Declaration. In the event that someone like Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber still believes that The following is added to the package leaflet: It is clear, too, and I recommend that all those who claim such things take a look at the rules behind them. You're elected to do this! You have to deal with this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] It's not a sideboard! It is an integral part of this agreement which makes it imperative to interpret it, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Hauser: That's a beaker!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Look Once again! They were in an authentic interpretation in this house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] That's compelling! That's it! Bravo, Daniela! Well, we solved this part once. That is the part that Federal Minister Mahrer has already carried out before. [[Abg. Kogler:... the poison teeth!]] - Yes, we still have to pull them. Mr Kogler, I'll be right there. [[Abg. Kogler:... Interpretation!]] – No, because the question is: Special jurisdiction yes or no?, is not a side show, the question of wage and social standards is not a side show, the question of whether our eco-standards hold is not a side show! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, don't!]] I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Here in Parliament we have decided! What the hell is this?! ... this Parliament will decide!]] Mr Pirklhuber, I very much appreciate you. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, eh!]] Your deputy clubman just talked about Kinkerlitzchen. [[Abg. Kogler: No,... side shows!]] I give you the opportunity to accept this motion for a resolution. This also includes the fact that ratification can only be presented here if these objectives are met. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... gag!]] That is, no special-class. Last point: Mr Mahrer already sees the solution in the International Court of Justice. I'm telling you my honest assessment: We have a functioning legal protection system within the European Union, which is called the ECJ. We have a functioning Court of Justice within the European Economic Area, which is called the EFTA Court of Justice. It can tell anyone, not only a group, but every so small company, and also any private person, in his proceedings before the national court: But this question should be interpreted! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] – It will then be submitted in the preliminary decision-making procedure. [[Abg. Cute: If a judgment does!]] – Again: In the last instance it is necessary to submit. In this case, I should like to put my heart to reading the EGV, including the lawyers among us. The preliminary decision-making procedure must be interpreted. However, the main advantage of our European procedure is that the decision remains with the national court, as the ECJ only announces a legal interpretation. [[Abg. Hauser:... the ECJ usually decides against it!]] The decision remains with the Court of First Instance, Mr. Cot. & Again: You see, ladies and gentlemen, the knowledge is not very good here, so you cannot call for a referendum, as Mr Hagen has done before, and you have also put forward proposals here, because you yourself have not yet looked at the rules, not even those of our own European Union. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I notice your knowledge gaps. Mr. Col., take a look at it. Support us by our way: no special-class members! Support You have won our motion for a resolution, and we have won quite a lot! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hauser.]] It will also make it easier for your party leader to explain this course to the public. In this sense, I still wish you good luck for the last few hours in the election campaign. I am convinced that our objective positioning, combined with a defense against those things that the supporters of popular desire do not want, is the best course in terms of CETA. I think we have achieved a great deal and we will reach a great deal until final ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9369	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9439	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9466	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Task Force Matznetter! Explain to us a single thing that almost nobody in this house still understands: What is the SPÖ for? Is it for CETA or against CETA? Is it TTIP? [[Abg. Arbitrators: But it's a fun thing for you to ask!]] - Excuse me, Mr. Arbitrator! Mr Krainer stated on Monday in the Constitutional Committee that there is no way of concluding the ratification positively. This is what Mr Krainer said in the Constitutional Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The Federal Chancellor, not in Vienna, but in Tallinn on the verge of the EU summit, explains the following – and I would like to ask you personally, Mr Bundeskanzler, and ask you to explain this to us –: [[Federal Chancellor Kern: Please do not quote the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] ‘We are in a situation where there is currently no opportunity in Parliament to reach a positive decision’ [...]. ‘If I do, it will be rejected. Then Ceta is dead, the whole project failed’.’ Mr. Federal Chancellor, you called me: “Please don’t quote the “Kronen Zeitung”!” – I don’t, that’s from the “Standard”. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What now?]] What does that mean? Which means: ‘We are in a situation where there is currently no opportunity in Parliament to reach a positive decision’? - Yes, it is! There is currently no opportunity in Parliament to reach a positive decision, even because large parts of the SPÖ club would vote against it – if you still know what you are voting for or what you are voting against! The second sentence, however, is the crucial: “If I do so,” – that is, Parliament’s documents, just as the law and the same as Parliament’s rights provide – “will be rejected. Then Ceta is dead, the whole project failed’.’ That is, if there is a chance that Parliament will do something different than you want, then will Parliament simply be ignored? Then we don't get our documents? Then let us not perform our functions as elected representatives of the people? Mr Bundeskanzler, I put it very carefully: This is an extraordinary disregard for the Austrian Parliament! – I would like to remind you of one thing: They are candidates for this Parliament. You are candidates for this Parliament, to which you explain that if there is a risk of voting differently than the Chancellor wants, then it will simply be ignored, then essential documents will not be sent to it and then it will be prevented from making decisions on the basis of the Austrian federal constitution. Federal Chancellor! You have taken your time today and a agenda item to give an election speech here – that is my personal concern, but I am happy to be convinced of the opposite. I would ask you to answer questions from our Members instead of the election speech. My main question is: Are Are you really willing to disregard the rights of the Austrian Parliament, just to save CETA, just to ensure that the free Austrian courts are restricted by so-called investment protection, only to ensure the restriction of the rights of the Austrian legislator in the interest of international corporations? I call on you to immediately forward to the Austrian National Council everything you have to do with documents and contract documents. Federal Chancellor, we have a right to that! We MEPs have a right to express their opinion freely and unhindered by a SPÖ chairman and Federal Chancellor. There are many parties here with clear positions. As in tax policy, the ÖVP represents the interests of large corporations. It also has reasons for this, because if you study the donor list of the ÖVP, you know whose interests they represent. The Freedom Party, the Greens and we, in part with different reasons, have clear positions against these so-called Free Trade Agreements. The NEOS represent a position similar to the Austrian People's Party, I do not know exactly why. But those who are in favour of these so-called investment protection agreements have one thing in common: They want as little democracy as possible in this process. They do not want to inform Parliament, they do not want Parliament to decide and they do not want the people to decide. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] And the summit is really the NEOS argument: This is too complicated for the Austrian population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Members of the NEOS: Do you know what the most complicated thing is? – A decision in the National Council elections. Is that too complicated for the Austrian population? [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] – If I look at NEOS, I can’t quite defend this impression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] But I'm looking for you, especially you, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party: Respect parliamentary democracy! Respect our right! Mr Bundeskanzler, withdraw this Tallinn declaration and give us all CETA documents immediately! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9582	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report in 1781 of the Supplements and Appendices 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, on popular surveys on trade and service agreements (TTIP, CETA and TiSA). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of popular survey on CETA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mag. Mr Rossmann, Mr Zinggl, Mr Steinbichler and Mr Doppler on Parliament's vote on the CETA trade agreement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Barbara Rosenkranz, Dr Franz, Doppler, Hagen, Schenk and Gerhard Schmid on binding referendum on the CETA Free Trade Agreement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wittmann, colleagues on CETA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Who does it fail to do?]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Where are the courageous greens?- Oh, my God!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] – We count briefly, sure. Since the outcome of this vote is not clear, I would ask the authors to support me in finding this result. If the outcome of the vote cannot be clearly determined in this way, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. I now ask the chosen writer Harry Buchmayr, Hermann Gahr, Alev Korun, Angela Lueger and Wolfgang Zanger to come to the Bureau. [[Mr Buchmayr, Mr Gahr and Mr Lueger went to the Bureau and supported President Hofer in the poll.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: We could do it alphabetically!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] We've counted through: It's the minority. The application is rejected. I announce that the urgent question put to us today by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, does not, as told, bear number 14129/J, but number 14128/J. The correction is due to technical Greens. [[13:20:01]] 2. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Responsibility for Austria”
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9743	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council in accordance with the present request. I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor. - Here you go, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e9780	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Austrians! The title of this statement, which we have deliberately chosen, is “responsible for Austria”. [[Abg. Beautiful: That's where the right person speaks...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is weird from your mouth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I think Parliament is the right place for an appeal to this responsibility, which we all bear together – and not just in this election campaign. It is the responsibility for the political culture in Austria, because this culture is crucial to the image of politics that Austrians have, and thus their trust in our democracy. [[Abg. Belakovich: You read everything down!]] The citizens who are going to vote in a few days and thus exercise their most important right are all our sovereigns. They carry our democracy, we are committed to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Recently, public comments often alluded to the relationship between voters and politics, as if the opposite worlds were very skeptical and not touching each other. [[Abg. Kickl: Is this an extract from the Misik book!]] This development is problematic, because who needs politics if not people? That is what we must consider in the interests of confidence in democratic policy. The election debate has not made a good contribution in recent days, quite the contrary. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] If a caricaturer draws the election struggle as a serious accident for all the people who have come in, then a picture probably says more than a thousand words. All the campaigning parties – including me and my party – are responsible for the fact that such a thing does not happen anymore because our democracy suffers damage from it. [[Abg. Kickl: You're just on the verge!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Whoever continues to arouse distrust and confuse the political debate with noise, has not learned his lesson. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you know what I'm telling you?! You can't sell people as stupid!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] Let us therefore return to a responsible political debate that is marked by respect, integrity, fairness and respect for the dignity of the other! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Let us confess to a political culture characterized by arguments and content, to a political culture that is driven by reaching the best solution, rather than providing the best headline, to a political culture in which attitudes and convictions produce political actions and not vice versa! [[Abg. Kickl: You should keep this speech in front of a mirror!]] Let us take care of this responsibility in the last few days until the election. The Austrians have deserved a political debate and political decision-making that focuses on their life-realities, with concrete solutions to their problems – as we have often succeeded together in recent weeks and months. [[Abg. Kickl: Now we're bringing in the distrust request!]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] This House has made many decisions that were actually inspired by the problems of the people. I recall the creation of the 20,000 jobs we have created together with the “Action 20,000” for people over 50. We have not only returned to them work, but also dignity, respect for their living and above all hope and a future perspective. I recall the abolition of the care rule, so that we have put an end to the expropriation of old people – old people who deserve respect for their living performance. I recall the increase in scholarships for children from socially weaker families, so that education does not depend on whether parents are poor or rich. We have achieved all of this together, and I think it makes sense and it is right that you and we are doing this again in today's session. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us make constructive policies that actually change people's lives! Let us work together, for example, to create equality between workers and employees! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] In many businesses I have repeatedly been addressed to this inequality and injustice. Today you have the chance to put an end to it. Let us jointly remove the fees for the rental contracts! [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo, straight! Bravo, FPÖ!]] This could be a first step for the young families in order to finally ensure a quiet living. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Together we ensure that single parents have a natural claim to their aliens! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] Together we ensure more opportunities for work and thus new life prospects for people with disabilities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these decisions help people who need support, and they ensure social cohesion in our country. I therefore appeal to all here in the House that we put a strong sign of the Austrian way of meeting together and agree to you here together. Austria is a great success model – without a doubt! – but we won’t be able to write the success story that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] We know that we face enormous challenges: Climate change, globalisation, technological development. All this means that we will experience a revolution in our working world, in our society. We need answers to upcoming questions so that we can actually make Austria sustainable. We have the question of how we want to build a future in which the change is designed in such a way that it becomes an opportunity for everyone and not just a profit for a few. With gentleness or the refusal of new realities, we will not continue, with egoism and elbow mentality no more. We have only one option for the future: We have to get to the top of this change, we have to make active policies, we have to design and we have to stick together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next Sunday is election day, and it is not just a question of how mandates are distributed, especially in respect of the honourable Members here in the House. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Of course...!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On Sunday is the election day, and I can remind you: There'll be a day after that. [[Call at the FPÖ:The 16th!]] And from that day on, we have to do the great tasks after the 15. Arrive on October, work together. [[Abg. Kickl: There you will all be in court...!]] I should like to thank all of you for your cooperation over the last 16 months. I look forward to a constructive cooperation in the future. For this cooperation in the interests of Austria, we need a culture of dialogue between all parties, a political culture that connects this country rather than split it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: First of all, a proper confession of debt!]] We, the political forces, and our sovereign, the citizens of Austria, must all move on to a common, red-and-white-red line to make our country even stronger. It is not our choice, it is the choice of Austrians, and therefore I may conclude with an appeal: [[Abg. That's it!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] I may ask our citizens, the Austrians, to make use of their right of vote. If you do not, others will decide on the political future in this country. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There is a last wish to appeal to our citizens, whom I would like to make during the remaining time: Everyone should take a picture of who stands for it, everyone should think about who represents what interests, and everyone should consider who is in the best hands of the future of Austria! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10124	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. [[Abg. Kickl: As with the honey in the end!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: I thought of another comparison, Mr. Kickl!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, North Korea!]] Mr Klubobmann has now been reported to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10188	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in front of the televisions! Mr. Federal Chancellor! So, if it wasn't that sad, we'd have to laugh almost today after we heard what you've done here for the best. That was almost cabaret, otherwise you can't call it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was almost cabaret, that was dazzling, that was actually the joke of the day. [[Cumulative call at the SPÖ.]] I really have to say, You did it! You are here today talking about “responsibility for Austria” – all that has happened in recent weeks and what you bear responsibility for: A silver stone affair has seen the light of the public. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr. Silberstein was your advisor, against whom a arrest warrant had already been issued in Romania in January 2017. At that time, you were still standing up and saying in public: There's nothing behind that, that's all nonsense! Only then, when the arrest of Mr. Silberstein took place did you not have any more choice than to separate yourself from him, but at the same time did you place: ‘Get what is yours.’ That's why I'm already asking the question: Who took it away from the Austrians, if not this red and black German government in the last ten years, Mr. Kern? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will ensure that people return what you have lost to working people through maximum tax burdens. Behind a Mr. Silberstein, who sits at your ear, of course, business interests have also become visible, dubious corporate interests with shareholders, where your wife has a company, you obviously also have shares, but also ÖVP donors, as you know now, are stuck in there with preferential shares. Other SPÖ supporters, such as Mr Schweighofer, as well as individuals who are being accused of being accused by the prosecutor in Israel, because they have slandered the Energy Minister, are connected with this company. This already shows a moral picture that exists in this Republic. That goes to this Bonzen Wall, from which you didn't want to know, even though the Federal Chancellor's Office commissioned in June to build this nonsense wall in the government district. They then went down and brought the workers water; and four weeks later, when you were asked what you know about this bonfire wall, give the answer and say: I have no idea what's being built and what's being built there. At the latest, it is recognized that you at least do not think the Austrian population – I do not know how to describe it – seems to be smart. This has already shot the bird, according to the motto: No one intended to build a wall, and I washed my hands in innocence everywhere! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're pretending you'd be responsible for nothing like it's always been others. This also shows a complete management failure; and, of course, the scapegoat, which is visible in your area of responsibility, could continue for a long time. Every single one of these errors would already be enough for a resignation, but of course you do not think of taking responsibility; and this must be done in return for you, too, Mr Niedermühlbichler. Obviously, you do not know all those employees who have been responsible. People in the Chancellor's Office have come out and entered, not only Mr. Silberstein, but also Mr. Fußi and Mr. Pöchhacker. If one brings all this together, then it is really a theatre where one at least has to realize that social democracy has shown with these consultants, with Mr Silberstein and the background of one, namely that it is obviously about the turbocapitalists who call you so beautiful as those who are then trying to influence. But you don't want to have anything to do with them, so you have apparently been sitting alone in the Ballhausplatz office since you took office. At least today, you want to make people so wise. Then you have still tried to put pressure on independent media when there was an unpleasant report about you, because documents with personal analysis have seen the light of the public that has been carried out from your party, namely vanity and princess. There is obviously physical fitness, but then not the psychological if you evaluate certain behavior patterns. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Please go!]] And then newspapers are put under pressure by deleting ads. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, these are the things that came from your party. That's exactly the point. [[Abg. Heinzl: Shame!]] – No, you should be ashamed, you should be ashamed in the truest sense of the word! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I believe that a Mr. Chancellor, who takes a management test at the “Kronen Zeitung” and cancels after 34 minutes, because he is apparently overloaded, says everything. Such a person will not be able to solve the problems of our country at a time of crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] These are all the circumstances you just have to wonder about. In this way, the profile analyses carried out from the SPÖ are apparently voiced. [[Abg. Kickl:... cancelled after two minutes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] They all believed that Werner Faymann could only make it better and not worse, but today almost all Werner Faymann has to cry a few tears. - It's come that far. [[Call the FPÖ:... give order call!]] And then you're seriously talking about responsibility? Seriously? Mr. Kern, aren't you ashamed of all that you've done? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Mayer.]] This is a low point of the Austrian-rich unculture that you have lived there. This is also a moral picture of this red-black government, with which you eventually led our country into a silver-stone period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] It is unbearable what was done to damage with fake facebook pages, diffamation and other mechanisms. Never in the Second Republic has a German chancellor with such developments so massively damaged the country in Germany and abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] It also fits quite well in the picture that you have recently tried to order EU sanctions carefully in Tallinn. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! Unheard of!]] What you don't understand: The next election is about responsibility, it is about honesty, it is about credibility, and that is not about empty promises! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Mayer.]] It is a question of making long-standing decisions for people in our country with honest efforts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is about reforms in the sense of social justice and attention. The issue is that problems are not only recognised in a timely manner, but also problems with proper measures and solutions. They have proved that this has not brought this government into line. What you, Mr. Kern, have been doing since you took office, is actually an election campaign and Dirty Campaign at the expense of taxpayers. That's what you know today. And you act exclusively from party policy tactics and not because of responsibility for Austria and for the people in our country. [[Call the SPÖ: This is your metier!]] When you took up your office, you yourself spoke of the diagnosed power-resistence and future-loss that you have now acquired. Austria deserves a change of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Austria deserves someone who is willing to take on real responsibility for the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have manifest problems and crises in Austria; we have a fairness crisis. It is not fair if the Austrians, namely all the working people in our country, have been reduced for years by a red and black federal government with the highest tax burden. It is not fair when they have to fight with real-value losses through the cold progression over years. It is not fair that two thirds of the population today have to say that they are no better than in 2006. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] It is not fair – since we discussed CETA earlier – that you do not even take your own party vote seriously in this respect and are not prepared to ensure a referendum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not fair, because it concerns the interests of our Austrian agriculture, the good quality products of our farmers, environmental standards, animal welfare, but also workers' protection directives that we want to preserve and do not want to know what they want to do. It is not fair – all this also in European comparison – that, under Red-Black systems, social systems have been created of unfair and unfair minimum security, which today, on the one hand, makes people who work almost over minimum security, or after 40, 45 years only receive an average pension of just € 950, but on the other hand, this red-black government of economic refugees, who have not worked for an hour and have done nothing, has a monthly minimum guarantee of €840. That is unfair and unjust! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Korun:... people stand against each other!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walser.]] It is unfair and unfair that women are the most severely threatened by poverty. The initiative for single-parents is perfectly correct, but let us then look at the single-schoolers who are Austrian citizens, and not again at third-country nationals, so as not to create an unsocial magnetic and suction effect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's make sure women get the same pay at last! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] To this day, you've failed. Let's make sure women don't have to live their lives in poverty because red and black aren't ready to count their child-education times fully on the pension as mothers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One is not prepared to take care responsibility, which is mainly exercised by women in the family, to take the pension as well; of course, the caregivers in that country have been abandoned for years, there has been no inflation adjustment of the care allowance and there has been 30 percent loss of value for the poorest of the poor since the introduction of the care allowance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] This is not fair, so I say: It is important to overcome this red and black unfair government with its injustices that you have left and created. And that's going to be 15th. October is only possible with a courageous force to change, with a voice for the FPÖ, so that we do not have to experience and suffer a continuation of this black and red government and these irresponsible developments of conflict, chaos and downtime.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10467	I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10499	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house! Mr Strache has started his speech full-bodiedly, but if you look at, for example, ORF ON or other websites: [[Abg. Höbart:... could also become Federal Chancellor!]] What's the headline of the day? – That the charges against Uwe Scheuch are legally charged. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There you see, this is the effect of your doing, of what you have performed as a black-blue or as a blue in Carinthia. To this day, the courts are still dealing with what was going on, so it is all the more cynical when Mr. Kickl says: All were sentenced! – No, all of you are condemned, that’s the difference, all those who have put under a ceiling with you and cut out the land – then, when you were in power, and wherever you were in power! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Abg. Kickl: Just wait!]] But of course, it is also a political strategy that we talk about everything else, just not about content and politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Where are the contents of the SPÖ?]] What you're doing is not talking about the things that really move people in this country and their lives. That's why it's quite clear: This is a political direction decision in our country. [[Abg. That's right! You're right!]] It is about whether we are making an economic policy that strengthens the upswing and thereby creates prosperity and jobs, and also fair distribution of the wealth created. [[Abg. Deimek: Here you are the same as the Greens!]] [[Abg. It's just air bubbles! It's just air bubbles!]] The economic researchers confirm the course of this government, because the National Bank speaks of 2.8 percent economic growth. This is the highest economic growth for ten years, and in 2017, we also created most jobs for ten years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] This is not just a question of the economic success of our entrepreneurs and our employees, it is also a question of framework conditions that policy can or cannot create; and I would say that the facts speak for themselves. It was the tax reform that we implemented with German Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner at the time, with a relief of €5 billion that has stimulated private consumption in such a way that economic growth has started – by the way, a tax reform cooperation which Sebastian Kurz, hardly has taken over the ÖVP, of course, can no longer remember – but also the rise in public investment last year by €800 million to €5.3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear and I read exactly what is in all your election programmes, and I say: I'm for something else. I believe that social security in our country is our first and most urgent asset. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where you failed!]] We need to secure social security in this country, and the SPÖ stands for security, we stand... – By means of failure, listen briefly! [[Abg. That's where you failed!]] [[Abg. That's where you failed!]] We stand for safe pensions, because people have to be able to rely on them. [[Abg. You're going to let people down!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We stand for a model where you say: With 65 years and 45 years of insurance, you will receive a pension of 80 percent of the average income. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... shame!]] Today, we will also test whether you just scream in between or get up sometime and vote in favour of safe pensions. We'll test you today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we also stand for the maintenance guarantee, because we do not find it fair to sit down in television debates, as Sebastian Kurzgerne does, and say: I am in favour of a maintenance guarantee, but then here in the house all ÖVPler vote against. I think it's unfair to be like Sebastian, and I say: I am in favour of equality between workers and employees, and I am voting against this in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I also find it unreasonable when Sebastian Kurzin says that he is for safe pensions, but in reality he is planning a pension reform which means a reduction for the people in this country. [[Abg. Deimek: That's what you're doing!]] We won't let that happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also find it unreasonable to say that the housing costs have to be reduced, and then do not vote for a fair rental right, just as Sebastian Kurz does – or just as ÖVPler said: If the rents are too high, then keep buying an apartment! – This is a cynicism that is not allowed to take place in this country, and that is a cynicism, which can be found on the 15th century. ==References====External links== [[I should like to congratulate Mr Korun and Mr Walser on his work.]] Today it is also about doing something for the apprentices in our country, namely abolishing boarding costs, and we will also see exactly who is voting for it and who is not. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What do you actually have to do with Mr. Silberstein?]] It is also about people being able to cancel their money at the banknote without having to pay a fee for the banknote fee being abolished. However, it will also be a matter of voting – for all these are content, ladies and gentlemen – whether a minimum wage of €1500 can be introduced in Austria and is tax-free at the end, because this is a social, a labour market and an economic policy that is fair. I also tell you – the FPÖ has announced a mistrust against the Federal Chancellor in the media – that: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] The decision is very easy, because Christian Kern is the person who is exactly the right mix of the important factors, namely experience, basic social setting – that is something that my previous speaker completely lacks – but also the origin, so that he knows what the problems of the people are, and therefore also committed to solving and solving problems. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Call at the FPÖ:What experience?]] [[Call the FPÖ:Pizzabote!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you quite honestly, it's a direction decision, and it's going to make everyone: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “Really honest”!]] Do we want the course of social compensation for which Christian Kern stands, or do we want to stand for Mr Kurz and Mr Kickl, the course of social barrage, which ends later in court? I think the decision is simple: ==References== Selecting SPÖ on October, it goes well for our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10839	I call Mr Klubobmann. Steinhauser. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e10860	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! I have already heard many great statements from members of the government in this House in ten years' work. I am not always in agreement with these statements, but they were on important issues, on the issues of the European Union, on the subject of the economic crisis, new members of the government were presented. However, no member of the government has yet done something like this, that it is establishing itself and the right of the Federal Government to deliver an opinion on important political issues, misused to hold an election speech that could hold it at every village square in Austria – that is completely inconceivable to you. [[Abg. Stefan: Then he would never have so many viewers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is a pity that you misuse this right of the Federal Chancellor and carry your campaign to the parliament. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The election campaign certainly plays a role here, because we cannot all take advantage of it. It will be elected in three days, and all the items on the agenda will of course be the 15. It is an essential part of October, but it is already unheard of that one takes its own item on the agenda. [[Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But, well, let's go to the election campaign: If you give us the opportunity to balance, we will balance this campaign. I'll tell you if You drive through Austria, then you will notice one, and that is unfortunate to a certain extent: The Austrians have their noses full of this election campaign. They're wondering: What does this discussion of SPÖ and ÖVP, partly also of the FPÖ, have to do with us and our problems? - Nothing! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's right! The Austrians have nothing more to do with the Greens!]] They turn away with greys and say: This form of political debate is damaging to democracy. We want to go another way. We have always put attention on political culture, we do not think of these political scenes. [[Oje-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] There is nothing real about these two parties and the FPÖ, everything is styled. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's why fungus has sailed off...!]] This is a form of artificial policy that – well prepared by PR employees – is served to citizens. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You've knitted the Lunacek posters yourself!]] We stand for authentic politics. It's inconvenient sometimes, and it's incalculable sometimes, but authenticity is important to us. We do not want this brushed mainstream policy, no – we stand for authentic politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Fakes and Dirty Campaign aren't with the greens. We reject that. [[Abg. Kickl: Only since the fungus is gone!]] That is essential, we confess, and we will keep it that way for the next five years. Thirdly, this has not yet been addressed: The fact that employees of the Federal Economic Association or officials of the Federal Economic Association family members of other political competitors, in which case the partner, the wife of the Federal Chancellor, is pioneering, is unbearable. That's a taboo, it's not with the greens! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The payment of money to send out campaign information from SPÖ may be – and this is still to be clarified – is unheard of. This is a political culture that we reject that is harmful to democracy. There's no greens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That a party of large donors – under quotation marks, not in the criminal sense, I am clean there – can be bought “political” because millions of donations are taken in, and then pretend that they do not commit this politically, no one believes you. This is a policy we reject. We are exclusively in the service of citizens and not in the service of large donors. There's no greens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Their theatre leads to the Freedom Party sitting here, which has split the country for 30 years and makes politics with enemy images, and one has the impression that of these three are the even more harmless variant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] That's not the case. You won't be guilty. All three are sinking in the campaign, in a power struggle, one has to say, which the citizens are satisfied with. [[Abg. Beautiful: Only the Lunacek love the citizens!]] Ladies and gentlemen! On Sunday, the Federal Chancellor is not elected, it is not elected by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Kickl: Not the Lunacek!]] Topics will be chosen, and people will be elected to whom the citizens trust, and that is the decision on Sunday, and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, since this statement came from a Social Democratic politician, I would also like to give a voice to the concerns of the Social Democratic voters. When I go through Austria, I hear one: Until deep into the middle class, people are insecure. They feel that, although social democracy has been in the government for many years, their circumstances do not improve, but worsen, that society is getting richer and richer, but that this wealth does not come to them. Poverty, sickness, education – all this is inherited. The crucial thing is which family one is born into. That's how the chances of life are defined, and that's the point, dear Social Democracy, where you're tough. Then there is a party that benefits from this vacuum in a negative sense and sprays like the entire European rights in this feeling slowly the poison of envy and disfavor, due to the failure of social democracy, and that is the problem. [[Abg. Kickl: Not so complacent!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the secular speaker) Watch out with the handsigns!]] That's why we're going to have a right truck. It would have been the task of social democracy to counteract it. This gap will fill the greens. I can promise you that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11077	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11099	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, if I follow the debate this way, I think it would have been a failure if you had launched a distribution action at the Viktor Adler market, because I believe that this shot to make a statement three days before the election is going quite backwards. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's where they pipe him out! That's where they piss him out!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator:... Viktor Adler Market?]] I can't save you one, Mr. Bundeskanzler: If you say here that responsibility for Austria should be taken on board, that the Joint Committee must be placed before the separating party, I must tell you: Look at your own door! Turn in front of your own door, clean up in your SPÖ! You have brought the most dirty campaign manager into your party worldwide. They paid him for letting the competitor stand badly. Turn in front of your own door and finish You have this scandalous procedure in your party too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen and, above all, dear spectators at home in front of the television screens! This day, three days before the National Council election, reminds me very much of the meeting on 24 February. September 2008 – a number of colleagues were members of the National Council at the time – at which an absolute marathon meeting was held until about 4 p.m. in the morning. At the end of the day, decisions costing more than €3 billion were on the table – not all bad, I say right now – but at least on that day the bazaar ruled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] [[Abg. Strache: Then at least agree where it costs nothing! Then at least it's true where it costs nothing!]] I have been talking to the Minister for Finance earlier because he has a list of the applications that are available today. Today it is about €580 million in terms of budgetary decisions, and we have some requests that cost nothing, but which are based on far-reaching social or labour or social changes. I can only appeal to everyone to think carefully about what decisions we are making today, because if I take seriously the title 'Responsibility for Austria', then we ourselves must take our role as Members seriously here, going to what we decide three days before the last election. [[Abg. Kickl: The cheapest parliamentarism is no one at all!]] It is also about the following generations. We have a responsibility here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also say what we will carry with us by the People's Party: In any case, we will contribute the pension adjustment for 2018. That is what we have agreed on in the government, of course we are involved. [[Abg. Belakovich: What government?]] This is also an increase of € 136 million, which comes here, but we stand for it because the lower pensions are especially adapted and an adjustment with a higher percentage. I also find the base amounts very positive. However, we do not support the change in emergency aid, where € 165 million per anno, which is € 800 million in the next legislative period, will be voted here today and will probably also find a majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] We do not carry any budget-damaging decisions, ladies and gentlemen. However, we will find a solution for people with disabilities, as we will make our own request. [[Abg. Brosz:... delete the taxes for the companies!]] We will also, of course, take part in the voluntary law of the People's Party, but we are not prepared to take part in Husch-Fuch's laws. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Since when?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There I come to the request for equality between workers and employees. By the way, Wolfgang Schüssel started the approximation of workers and employees in 2003, and colleague Muchitsch knows that. 2013, after the flood, there was the last change in the ABGB, because the worker did not go home when the house was flooded, but the employee did. We did that in the summer of 2013. However, what is now available is, of course, the approximation of termination periods and payment payments. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done in a night and fog action – no assessment, no discussion, no social committee, no intervention in hundreds of collective agreements, no involvement of the social partners and no uniform worker concept! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Belakovich: Who has cancelled the Committee?]] [[Onions of the Abg. Treasure]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You have cancelled the Committee!]] [[New call of the abg. Honey.]] If we really change this here – and we want to change it, today we are also presenting a motion for a resolution calling on the government to present it by the end of 2018 – but with a single worker concept at the end of the day. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Schatte]] If I no longer have any differences, I no longer have workers and employees, then I have a uniform worker concept. This is not the end, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – Mr. Schieder, you have to change yourself today; the notice periods should not enter into force until 2021, because the ÖGB has pumped you back. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But this is not a Hush-Push proposal!]] Foglar is the only one who still understands – and probably the trade unionists sitting in here – that you don't do this with 1. It's a good thing that we're going to be able to let January enter into force. Then stands the whole game, where workers are employed. So Foglar said: Make a deadline for three years to stay because it simply doesn't work! – This is actually the confirmation. You must be grateful to President Foglar for correcting his own party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Hauser's calls for interim work and treasure.]] For child support, I would like to announce that we are submitting our own application. There are three groups of proposals. We want to help the vulnerable children and mothers, but we do not want to transfer abroad. We do not want to transfer to EU countries, as is the case with family aid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We of the People's Party keep our line: no budget-damaging decisions, no Husch-Fuch laws. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: I don't know!]] Responsibility for Austria, ladies and gentlemen, also means responsibility for the budget and responsibility for the budget. You can also agree to the debt brake, ladies and gentlemen, which is on the agenda next. Five years ago, you were there. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, now?]] We would then have a constitutional majority, although the SPÖ would agree, and we need this in the country so that money is not spent unnecessaryly. [[Abg. Shh! Shh! Without committee!]] However, we do not agree with the SPÖ today because we continue to comply with the Coalition Agreement. [[Ah-rufe and ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] There are already desires, but we do not agree with the request for distrust because we stand for a new style because we want a new style in Austria. That is why I can only say: on Sunday Sebastian Kurz and the new People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11389	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11411	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! It's time for the election campaign to end. [[Abg. Brosz: Are you already with the new People's Party?]] I think the whole Republic has slow enough. Today we have the last debate on this legislative period in this House, in the National Council, and then people are making their choices. The Federal Chancellor here invites you to discuss the subject of responsibility. It's, of course, part of his staging that hasn't always been happy in the last few weeks. [[Abg. Belakovich: Not today!]] Of course, we will be happy to take part in the debate on responsibility. Mr. Kern, you know that we even have an alliance for freedom and responsibility, and that is what we will bring in over the next five years. I do not want to make a great mistake about the others now, but I would like to express once again our offer, which we will use in the next five years through three guidelines for people in this country. These three guidelines read first content instead of intrigue, second freedom instead of felt and third speed instead of tactics. - I'm going to do what's hidden from that. Content instead of intrigue: We are a force of reason, including intellectual honesty. If all the popular parties reach on populism, it is not always easy in the upswing of the populist margins to always appear accordingly. [[Abg. Brosz: What's the Schellhorn doing with you?]] Nevertheless, we will remain faithful to our style and will promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will work for solutions that arrive in real life. That's how we kept it in the election campaign now. We have drawn up seven opportunities plans, presented two plans for the future, and presented a tax reform. [[Abg. Belakovich: Seven? I thought three! Find out what you like!]] We have prepared and presented these 98 pages, including with people from more or less all parties: For example, we had two former Secretary-Generals of the ÖVP on board and also held a press conference with a former ÖVP chairman in the field of education. We have with Viktoria Kickinger a confessing SPÖ member who says: Yes, my heart still beats somewhere under pain for the SPÖ; I live bourgeoisly, and in economic policy only NEOS comes in for me, because they just have the clearest look here. – We have Max Schrems, who in normal times is more of a green vote, but also sitting in the Committee of Mr. Kern, who says: For me, the NEOS are an alliance partner in digitization; I go in with it in preparation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, NEOS have taken it now!]] We will go to all the forces in the next Parliament the week after the elections, ladies and gentlemen, and we will invite every single force in Parliament to so-called opportunity talks. I think we must come to a completely different style of cooperation. In Norway, for example, for decades, it has been the case that the government – whoever forms it – has always clearly a cooperation agreement with individual opposition forces; we believe that this should be normality. It should be the normality of saying at the beginning of a period: Where do we want to work across party borders, across the borders of opposition and government? – We will put this germling in the first week after the elections, we will pour it and raise it, and I will tell you: He will take root over time. The time of the red and black power cartel with the social partners on the passenger seat, which is still in the steering wheel, while the opposition applications are always only in the paper cube, is over. I want us to take a determined step forward in the direction of the working party here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That means to us, too: Freedom instead of felt. We can handle this in many areas. Freedom also means giving people more money in the wallet. That's why: Get down with the tax and tax rate! We have comprehensive proposals in this regard, we can stop a lot of waste – not infinitely much, but very much – in Austria. This is starting with the promotions. We have over 50,000 funding in Austria – 53 000 – at the municipal, state and federal levels. It is a thickening of the feeding of party-political circles of friends. This is a misery for taxpayers, where we can wood and let people get more money. This is an expression of freedom for us. Yesterday I had Christian Lindner from the FDP here. We have allies in every country in Europe, who have a similar or equal understanding of freedom, and we will also be working here in Austria for alliances to increase this idea of freedom. For example, freedom in education: I was in Styria this week and attended a school that is great. Mr. Kern, you were already there at the opening, you know the De-La-Tour schools. It's great what they do there – great! – according to the principles of freedom, responsibility and also time management, children's own learning pace. I interviewed the children, I asked: How are you? – You said: Great, we love it! – I asked: What are you doing? – They said: learning. - Ui, that's where you're going! I wish that every single child in this country. This is an expression of freedom that they live there and that we can bring to every school class. At last tempo instead of tactics: This election campaign has been dominated by tactical maneuvers, exploits, malices, shamelessnesss and shabby electoral practices that are troubling for our common industry. I think the damage that was done there is great, he's hard to judge. We will all be in a duty to re-establish confidence in politics. I think there's been a lot of breakdown in people, too, and it wasn't like we were sitting on a fat upholstery as a politician in terms of credibility. After the election, we have to tackle a kind of restart here in principle. This is not the re-start of a government, but the entire political system, the culture, how we deal with each other, what kind of practices we grant to each other, what kind of one another we cultivate. I give the promise that we will be here as a positive force and we will also promote alliances across the party borders. All the good people who are campaigning there. I can say that there are good people in all parties, but I am deeply convinced: This old, crystallized system of power, even if it may be overpainted with other colors, has ended up morally and in terms of content. It needs new forces in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11514	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11536	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, I think back on that day in mid-May, when I took over the role of Vice-Chancellor in inner-politically turbulent times, in connection with the task and firm intention to implement what is still possible from the government programme. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Although the Federal Chancellor wanted another vice chancellor!]] I have estimated this task very realistically from the very beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You will remember that I said consciously at the time: There is no magic in this beginning. – I have the impression that even the end does not live in magic, if, as has already been mentioned, one looks at itself, from how much aggression, indifference and mutual defeat is the current internal political scene, to Dirty Campaign in a form that has never been done in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: But mutual!]] [[Abg. Bösch: But he's independent!]] However, there has still been a great deal of implementation. This should not go down, and that is why I would like to mention it: The abolition of the care regime has been mentioned, the introduction of primary care centres, the increase of the women's quota in supervisory councils of listed companies, the increase of the research premium, the new regulation of private insolvency, the employment bonus has already been mentioned, significant changes in criminal law in favour of officials attacked, measures against the anti-state movements, intensifications in sex law, where this was really necessary. – Yes, there has been a lot of success. That is why many have not expected to do so at all, so it should not remain unmentioned. On a number of topics, many have moved very strongly, including – I can say – the ÖVP has shown itself very flexible on some topics. Conversely – and you have to admit that too – there were some things that really, from my point of view painfully, did not succeed. There were some blockades I really think are harmful. We should have succeeded more in making working hours flexible, in abolishing the cumulation principle in administrative criminal law, especially in the safety package. This is, in my view, so painful, because what is centrally regulated and proposed in the security package is explicitly stated on page 24 in the extended January 2017 government programme: the need to create surveillance opportunities for Internet-based telephony, so that these gaps in the pursuit of the most serious crime are no longer maintained. At that time, we signed – all members of the government – that this is necessary and that it should come. It didn't come, and I think that's to the damage of the country. [[Abg. Scherak: For the good of the country!]] I did not understand in this point the blockade of the Freedom Party in the security package, because the Freedom Party has always understood itself as a party that has attached security policy and security agendas to its flags. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A Federal Trojan! Are you all right?]] If you look at it more closely, you know that there is no alternative to these technical possibilities that have been proposed. [[Abg. Strache: We don't want federaltrojans! Citizens are sharpening!]] You'll see, you'll be swirling on this line very soon, if you're really serious and exactly dealing with it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Why did the Minister of the Interior not have any conversations with us? He's not so sure either!]] Otherwise, as a party that really takes security policy agendas seriously, you are ultimately not really serious. I have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Scherak and Mr Belakovich.]] I can only hope that the next government will really address this important issue without delay and that the necessary measures will be taken in the interests of the country. [[Abg. Strache: Bring hundreds of Islamists and anti-Semits into the country and then trample the civil rights with feet!]] There too, Mr Klubobmann Strache, is a question of responsibility. One must perceive it, and one must perceive it as it was established in consciousness for all the details already in January in the government program. I still think this is absolutely necessary, which is ultimately alternate. [[Abg. Belakovich: There is nothing alternative! There are always alternatives!]] I just wanted to say that there were still similarities that we could find in the government. I am also very grateful to the government partner for the areas in which we were able to understand and for the not so insignificant things that we could still realize together. Now on a point that seems important to me, namely, as a typical example of the need for cooperation in the interests of finding the best possible solutions: maintenance reform. Yes, she was last discussed over and over again, it is undisputed that we need a change here, but the change should be considered and made subject-oriented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] It is about finding the best possible solution. It's not that much about the goal, because we all agree: The maintenance of children must be provided by the state quickly and unbureaucratically where necessary, because the maintenance obligations do not provide the corresponding services, for whatever reason. It is, however, the best way to achieve this common goal. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] For this I can tell you from my experience with the maintenance right and the maintenance advance right – this falls into our competence, I know what I am talking about – one thing: If the maintenance level is set, then our courts do so taking into account the different cost of living in different countries. So it's a matter of where the child who needs to be entertained lives. Since it is necessary to differentiate and take into account that the cost of living in certain countries is lower or higher than in Austria, it is natural for justice to do so for decades. It is therefore not understandable to me why we can have difficulties with this principle. In addition, the following are added: We also have the competence for the maintenance advance. Now practitioners, especially district judges, always tell me that this is extremely bureaucratic, that we need something more unbureaucratic. People come to us, make the first request, then we send them to the County Head Team, then they come back – this is a constant round-by-side. That is, the essential is that there is a better model than the current one. If we want to ensure that the necessary maintenance for the children can really be guaranteed by the state, then it is best to do so in the form that ultimately those institutions that have the social competence in the country, namely the countries that ensure it, at least with a back cover of financial nature through the League. That's all possible, everything possible, you can look at it in detail. One thing, however, is very important: that the legal argument that it is possible to limit such a maintenance allowance to children living and living in Austria is simply not working and is legally wrong. I also have the regulation of the kind. In paragraph 67, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 of the EU Coordination Regulation, which clearly states: “A person also has the right to family benefits under the legislation of the competent Member State for family members who live in another Member State, as if the family members would reside in that Member State.” – That is, every model based on family support naturally leads to a high amount of money being transferred abroad with a correspondingly difficult means of control. This is the case now, and there are better possibilities. All else, which is still contained in this proposal, is in part something that should be considered. I really do not understand the limit to five years or the limitation on single parents and single parents. If it is really about the interests of the children and about ensuring the maintenance in the height necessary and due to the children, then you should still look for the rest of the community that leads to finding the best possible solution and not something of which you simply say: That's what we want. – This is only very rarely really the best. A legal-political matter as important as child support should already be something that you really consider calm and serious. This problem has deserved the best possible solution, but this, as I am afraid, is not currently promising, because I have the feeling that no one is willing to respond to the arguments of the others, even if he may already feel inside that these arguments may be better. I can only follow the warnings of the Minister for Finance: There is already a danger that election sugar will now be decided without any further consideration. This danger exists in particular with regard to this issue. It should really be prevented from allowing money flows abroad to a great extent, without this being necessary. There are better solutions, and you can find them if you are only willing to listen to the other. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's where you complain the same!]] I think you'll admit this to me: I have always tried to face my counterpart with respect. I have, in particular, tried to do this over the last few months, and tried, as calmly and objectively as possible to complete and save what was possible from the Government Convention and Programme. In doing so, I have still noticed the rest of the team's ability. I would like to express my express thanks to the government partner and hope that these remains can also lead us to find a solution that is more appropriate and better today. But I know, it's clear to me: The last weeks and months have shown that togetherness and willingness to cooperate have simply decreased rapidly. Sadly, one must also admit that this election campaign has reached a low point, which makes it clear that we have real gaps in criminal law, especially when it comes to structural, targeted Dirty Campaign. I say once again – this is a consideration we have had for a long time: The facts we have against what is now called Dirty Campaign are not enough. They are based – if you look closer, you will understand – on the conditions of the 1970s and 1980s, on our old media law. This will no longer be fair to today's conditions, you have to see. We've been dealing with this for a long time, and we've always noticed: We obviously have a deeper structural problem in various areas. [[Abg. Brosz: You've done that for years now!]] The Internet has changed social conditions in such a way that we have to find out again and again: We no longer agree with the traditional instruments so far, we need something new, and this area is part of it. Another example that you need to deal with sometime: In Austria, we have the strictest laws against money laundering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] At the moment, however, we do not know how to really control and control the phenomenon of bitcoins in the long term. I mentioned the possibilities of monitoring that hit their borders. All this shows: Of course, we also have the feeling through the Internet that we are at the end of the day with our instruments we are used to. And more and more often I feel like we're there like someone who wants to repair a precise movement with a wood hammer. This does not work, and it simply needs to be done with new phenomena, with new methods – and Dirty Campaign simply belongs to them – also new measures. One thing has to be clear: Whoever invests in such measures, who in Fake News, who invests in Dirty Campaign, invests in political starkness, and I think this is extremely dangerous for democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I really would like to call on you to support everything that will happen in the future to take action, and to take action against hate crime, especially against hatred on the Internet and against unfair methods in the run-up to elections. There will need to be new approaches, and they should be supported. And we should really return to a political culture that is marked by mutual respect and the honest desire to achieve the best possible solutions together, in line with what the Federal Chancellor has already said. That's what this country needs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to finish. Parliament, which I have always seen, can be more than the smallest common denominator of the positions of the parties represented here – if they are mutually respected and further developed with team spirit. Just so, I am deeply convinced that you will find the best solutions for our country, and that is what Austria deserves – and nothing else. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11753	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11774	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor has now rightly pointed out some very important steps that we have been able to take together in recent months, in particular measures against unemployment and the abolition of the right to care, and I must acknowledge, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have always personally been one of those who have tried to establish common solutions. But if you're talking about blockade today, I can't spare you to point out who's gone out of the blockade in the last few months. Finally, we have this black on white, since strategy papers have appeared from your party headquarters, namely that your current top candidate has worked massively to destroy any agreement that has started to destroy, prevent agreements, solutions – important solutions! – prevent, then say: I have to blow the government up now because no solutions are coming on the way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] So who the blockade is supposed to be, unfortunately, is quite clear. Today – and this has already been said – is a very important meeting, because at this last meeting of the National Council, we are probably able to decide on some very important things with each other. I have heard in advance of election sugars again and again, even today in the debate. A sugar is something that tastes good, but is actually a little unnecessary. But if we look at the measures that are being taken today, these are not unnecessary things, but very important issues at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] For example, it is about extremely important steps against poverty in this country, such as emergency aid, the independent right of women to emergency aid, or that we help women need the maintenance they need, but where the man does not pay the maintenance, that we help these women, these single parents, to come to this support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as equality between workers and employees is concerned, it is not to be seen that there should continue to be a difference. We've been saying that for many years. [[Abg. Loacker: Why do you leave...?]] The fact that apprentices no longer have to pay for boarding school visits in the future is also important and relieves a group that is not doing well financially and which urgently needs it. Or the removal of the fees on rental contracts: This is an important step in making living more manageable – something that is very important in this country and for which we need to do and do much more in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today, because there are just changing majority groups, a window of time, to decide things that we have long called for, where there are sophisticated concepts – from Husch-Fuch – which, unfortunately, were not enforceable, because the ÖVP did not want these things. On Sunday – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has pointed out – it is a question of what majority will be elected, what the majority will look like in this House in the next few years. And because it says in the room that Blue Black is already being negotiated or is likely to be negotiated, I would like to remind you that there has already been experience with this in recent years, such as that the pensions have been reduced, namely the pensions for future generations. [[Interlocutors Walter Rosenkranz, Stefan and Kickl.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – You'll find that funny now. They don't think that's funny at all. [[Abg. Kickl: (on the clothes of the speaker) No, I admire your red-black ensemble!]] At the time when widow's pensions were reduced, the pensions of the women who were employed, when the Austrian family silver was thrown away, when the ambulance fees and the tuition fees were introduced, I came around a lot in Austria because of my political function at the time, and people often asked me: Why don't you stop that? I said, Because we do not have the majority in Parliament. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, the next Sunday is about: who will have the majority in this House in the future and what will happen in whose interest in the next few years; whether the rents can be reduced, whether all children have the right to the best education and not just those whose parents have a big wallet; whether every child is equal in value, or whether there should only be a tax bonus for those who deserve well; whether we, ladies and gentlemen, will have in this country a climate in which we respect each other, or whether we will have a climate in which we will be played against each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Deimek]] These are the important decisions on Sunday. That is why I can only appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: Remember the horrors in England when you woke up with the Brexit, the horrors in the United States, when you woke up with Trump. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Trump voters are not afraid! It's only always the others who startle!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are saving ourselves this horror, the awakening with this horror! Let us save ourselves with a voice for responsibility, for experience, for Christian Kern!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11907	I call Mr Kickl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e11928	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! To my predecessor: I think the greatest horror that could wake up in Austria is the combination that you have probably attracted today as an expression of the special appreciation, namely the red-black. That would be the worst thing if in the fourth edition that comes out again, which has now failed quite massively three times in a row. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And my goodness, ladies and gentlemen, it really comes together for this SPÖ in this election campaign: first of all, an inexorably overestimated and heaven-enhanced top candidate, who is now actually landing a break. You should have listened to the prophetic words of Comrade Bures: She already knew in 2014 that politics is not the strength of Christian Kern. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo!]] Comrade Bures really possessed prophetic powers at the time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the chancellor: anything other than the announced superstar. Then comes the fact that his scribe hangs in a creative hole. I think Mr Fuzzi has a burnout. That's what it's all about. And as a third, the Lord then turns out to be one of the potential throne followers of the whole left wing, which is one that hangs in a permanent depth anyway, without any prospect that sometime a power increase will be inside. And that's the result. [[Rejoicing with representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Then you can see: The social-democratic party's appearances, where the rationally gifted forces on the government bank are really written into the face, can almost be grasped here in plenary, how unpleasant it is to them, which you have partially given here today under the title of responsibility to the best. You know what? This has nothing to do with responsibility, but what you have done here today is the abuse of the concept of responsibility. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... also fresher!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, we have brought it so far that you already have to protect terms from your abuse! And it was everybody here today who was eyewitnesses and eyewitnesses that, unlike all of you, the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, who never elected you, until the end of the day, remains faithful to his concept. [[Abg. Wenninger:... Federal Chancellor elected, Mr. Col.?]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Does not at all know...!]] He pursues his political plan for Austria, and this political plan of Mr. Chancellor for Austria, which is not the well-known plan A. This Plan A is just a small puzzle stone, which is just a mosaic of his plan for Austria. His plan for Austria, he has a completely different accelerator: That's the TS plan. And TS stands for valley silver. This is the plan that the chancellor will go through until the bitter end until this Sunday: the TS plan! [[Abg. Hell:... U.S. Plan: the U.S. Key Plan!]] And what's in there, in this valley-silverstone plan? It says that 95 percent of the right political mix consists of staging and 5 percent of content. That's what he's been doing to this day, and it wasn't different today either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's inside: If you don't deliver your own performance, you'll dress up with strange feathers! This is economic growth. There you can thank the Chinese, you do not have the minimum to do with it. There's inside: If you as the head of government do nothing else, pretend to be the opposition, and make constant demands on yourself! That's what we've experienced in the last few weeks and months. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you have any own content?]] It's inside this valley-silverstone plan. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then there's also the fact that if you can't move them away, you'll probably get rid of their predecessors by some sort of curfew. [[Abg. Arbitrators: They are hollow like an Easter hare!]] That is also contained in this plan. These points, which I have now mentioned, were presented to the ÖVP at a very early stage of this election campaign, and there one was obviously very, very inspired by all these points. This model, this so-called list of shorts, works according to exactly the same criteria. That's what you should think about! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the plan is much, much more detailed. There's inside: Dear Christian, you should of course do good Dirty Campaign, you just must not get caught, and to this burden blur your own tracks and put as many traces as possible to the others! [[Call at the SPÖ: Where does that stand?]] And then it's inside. And if you're being cluttered when the bomb explodes in your own ranks, play as a victim, then stage yourself as a victim and continue the Dirty Campaign in this form by trying to tear in as many as possible who have nothing to do with it! – It's in this silver stone plan! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you ordered this plan. You're the chairman of a party. You ordered this plan. That's your special commission where the comrade Gusenbauer found out that Comrade Matznetter was against his friend Gusenbauer. [[Ruf:After what now?]] I think that's particularly funny. The Nick Knatterton of the SPÖ has published this itself; to read it on the SPÖ homepage. There stands, please, you have commissioned Mr. Silberstein with opposition research, and opposition research, that is, not opposition research, but that means systematic collection of poor-forming material in connection with the political competitor. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] This is the finer vocabulary for Dirty Campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] On page 3 of your Matznetter special commission paper you can read it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you say you didn't know anything about it. This is really a joke, ladies and gentlemen. And if the bomb goes up, if you can't get the media under control, if you can still get up the dubious company braids, millionaire and billionaire networks of international corruption, and of people buying government members worldwide, then Mr. Silberstein has another tip: Then, dear Christian – dear princess! – please go to Parliament a few days before the election. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] Then you have to make a statement there on responsibility for Austria. And best of all, the Rudi Fuzzi will write you the speech, or any other of these troops of politic soldiers who have entered and left you – not somewhere, but in the Chancellor's Office of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what we've experienced today. That's what we've experienced today. And that's not the ultimate banger and the ultimate counterbeat you've produced here today, but that was the ultimate knee shot, with a ball through both knee joints. You did it today! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] And you know, Federal Chancellor, in the light of a word you used in the television discussion yesterday, I would like to call you: It's what you call politics. And measuring and threatening is what you might think it's smart and smart. It is measured and threatened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is measured and threatened, Mr. Federal Chancellor. And I'm also speaking to this red Boulevard of Broken Dreams, who's gathered over there. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] It is appropriate to hear from your mouth in days like this the concept of responsibility. You should actually make yourself here, one after another, and apologize to the Austrian people. That would be appropriate. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What you have done instead is to stage an orgy of responsibilitylessness, day and night, 24 hours, seven days a week, full tube – an orgy of responsibility to the media you have not got under control, about which you get angry – keyword glass kinn –, especially to journalists, then to your own people, with your leadership and management ability being to clean yourself down to subordinates, but at the end of the day, to the whole of Austria, to the Austrian population and to the political culture in that country. That is why I cannot help but bring in, ladies and gentlemen, a motion of censure, and I am doing so. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have something to consider: The whole thing is not complete, because until a new government is formed, the Federal Chancellor is still in office. Yes, for heaven's sake, who knows what the Lord Kern and his silver stone department – or the rest of it – will do with everything when on Sunday a result comes out that does not fit the comrades? Yeah, then what do we have to expect? [[Abg. Wenninger: How was the Federal President's election?- Oh, my God!]] We have already got a slight foretaste on what we have to expect on the last foreign trip of the chancellor in the course of the EU summit. We've seen where the wind blows when the comrades don't fit into the crab. There you have allied yourself with Mr Juncker, with the incarnation of the European Union, to make a mood against your own country, instead of defending a democratically legitimate party abroad against totally unjust accusations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm telling you: In the meantime, this behaviour towards Austria abroad has already become a social-democratic core virtue. You didn't need an internet to operate Dirty Campaign. This has been known by people interested in internal politics for many, many years. That is why we have tabled this proposal. One word to the Austrian People's Party: I would You really ask to go in once again when it comes to voting on this request, because in fact you have to support this request with great joy, with a joyful heart, with inner conviction and with the new style you are constantly talking about. [[Abg. Höbart: It's time!]] What does it mean if you do not support this request? – This means that you are doing the wall to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and exactly all the things you criticize him. This is the next red and black wall project, this time here in Parliament. They're making him the wall! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They make him the wall, and every learned Austrian knows what that means. It means that, in this refusal of consent, we are actually dealing with the overture to the fourth edition of this immoral coalition of red and black, this time holding under reverse signs. That is what this refusal is all about! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to make an appeal to the Austrian people: With your vote, please ensure that these red and black responsibilities are the responsibility from the age of 16 onwards! – That’s why this election is going on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question is that the responsibilities of the responsibilities are also really clear, and that is only with a real change. And this real change is only with the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12276	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12318	Mr Ottenschlager has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12340	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Kickl's comments. The reason why we will not agree to your request is relatively simple: ==References====External links== October, in three days, at the word, and these will decide who will be the strongest force in this country. We should not presuppose these. I assume that the strongest political group will receive a mandate and form a new government, as soon as possible and with a new Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: He's going to be chancellor!]] Actually, I wanted to give a very conciliatory speech, but what is really annoying me as a parliamentarian, ladies and gentlemen, is this: The Federal Chancellor asks for his own agenda item and does not even listen to the speakers. The debate he wanted here today, so to speak, he does not follow. And that – he told us earlier, he wants more respect in politics – is disrespectful, and that is honestly at the end of this campaign, I really think, a sign of how he deals with responsibility. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Scherak on his work.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Federal Chancellor has tried – and this is quite legitimate – to balance in a certain way. But it is now a time when people, citizens, do not want to know what was in the past, but what will be what we want in the future, and there are different concepts. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not now complain ourselves in politics, but we take the opportunity to thank those who have done their job in recent years, so that we can still be relatively good in Austria, namely the entrepreneurs who create jobs, the workers who carry out their daily work, the volunteers, the volunteers who make their daily contribution to our society. I have already mentioned it, there are different approaches to politics, and just the still-government parties have different approaches. You, the SPÖ, the Federal Chancellor wants as much state as possible. On the other hand, we believe in the abilities of individual people, we have confidence in our citizens, and we want to give them back a piece of freedom. We don't want companies to talk too much and we want the service providers to have back to life and that they will be rewarded for what they do for this state, for society, every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because it is likely that a resolution on fair rents will be put in place and that the Chancellor and Mr Schieder have also mentioned this, I propose three measures which we in general could implement very quickly in the policy. Let's start in the city of Vienna! The fees that tenants have to bear in recent years are increasing much more than inflation each year. The city of Vienna could intervene very quickly and introduce a fee brake. This would relieve the tenants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Let us increase social security in the promoted housing so that those who need such an apartment actually get them! And to the third – and I already have to take responsibility to the Federal Chancellor, but also the city of Vienna – we have numerous empty apartments, for example the ÖBB. There are 6 000 railways, of which 2 000 have been empty for years. This is also the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor if we speak of it today. ==References== There's an interest-rate house in top location that's been empty for years, and I'll ask myself: What is social-democratic housing policy: leaving houses empty? At Wiener Wohnen, it takes eternity, too long for a renovated apartment to return to the market. We could make a quick contribution to that there are fairer rents and that we have more apartments. More offer means less costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I actually wanted to give a much more conciliatory speech, but this behavior has prompted me to use other sounds. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Mr Colleague! Do you find that all right if the Federal Chancellor gives a speech here and then does not even listen to his own speakers until the end? I don't think that's responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12426	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12448	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Yes, the Federal Chancellor is here today and makes a statement on responsibility for Austria. And he has, as the SPÖ so often happens, once again forgotten an essential population, and these are the young people in that country. For 55 years we have always been able to rely on one thing when it comes to SPÖ and ÖVP, namely that we make new debts every year – for 55 years! We currently have a debt of €290 billion in Austria and pay €8 billion annually only on interest for our debts. Every child born in Austria has a debt of 40,000 € from the start of his life. And then the Federal Chancellor places himself here and explains to us what of responsibility for Austria! If one calls such a responsibility, then one has either not understood the term or one simply does not want to understand it, because what has been done here for the past 55 years has nothing to do with responsibility, which is to make responsible debt at the expense of the next generation. And above all, it is against the people who are not yet able to defend themselves, namely the young people in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Mr Katzian! I can also talk if it's not clawed. I don't know if you're having a hard time. I'm more concerned with saying something on the content and not yelling in between like you. The problem is, that is not just the SPÖ, that is also the ÖVP, and that is why it is quite bizarre if Mr Wöginger comes here and rightly points out that with all the applications that lie around here today, 580 million € would be spent. I always wonder where the ÖVP has been over the last 30 years. My knowledge is: The ÖVP is longer in the Federal Government than I am in the world. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is no longer the ÖVP!]] And you have participated in this debt every year, each year new debt – SPÖ, ÖVP, exactly the same game. You play with everything, you make exactly the same choice sugar as the SPÖ: The abolition of the care regime without any counter-financing approach, increasing pensions by more than inflation. At the famous pensioner's age, when every pensioner received 100 € in Austria, there was a courageous MP with you who turned out and spoke against it – one of the young, Asdin El Habbassi. You have agreed that every pensioner, no matter how high the pension is, will receive 100 € in addition. And you do that because you always put one thing at the center, and that's your own party and your own clientele. That's why you're distributing sugar now, as always in the run-up to a choice, and all at the expense of the next generation. This has nothing to do with responsibility. This is not responsible policy at the expense of the youngest in this country and especially at the expense of those who have not even been born.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12496	I call Mr Katzian. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12518	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know what the artificial excitement of some who have spoken in front of me. I understood this in such a way that the Federal Chancellor made himself here and tried to give an overview of those measures taken together in Parliament last year, which led to economic growth going up, towards 3%, and that unemployment is falling. All those who are now producing themselves here and stage a great confusion, then cut down in detail and throw nebula grenades, just as you have done over the past few weeks and months. Quite honestly, it's self-evident. We are proud of these successes, and we are proud that Austria is going up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:And then the chancellor is not there! - Where is the Federal Chancellor?]] - Yeah, yeah, right! And then, Mr Wöginger comes up, and the workers-employees-theme has not been discussed by the social partners. This is the same ÖVP – or a member of this ÖVP – that we are told: In fact, we do not want any more social partners! Mr Kurz has said several times – and several other representatives too – that this was something of yesterday, that belongs to the waste heaps of history, that the chambers belong to dissolved and abolished, that we no longer need collective agreements and that co-determination is anyway something we would have to look at very carefully. This is also demonstrated by your statements on the reduction of works councils. I can tell you in connection with the worker-employee topic: Two years we are already discussing the payment of compensation at the social partners' level. Two years – not 14 days or three days, two years! – and failed to achieve a common result. I therefore believe that we have now found a very sensible common path, a responsible way of implementing it. I think that is a good sign and also a good solution that we have finally achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then Mr. Kickl comes and files a motion of censure against the chancellor. So, honestly, the news could have saved you, too, Mr. Kickl! As you said, The rationally gifted forces on the government bank are already tormenting themselves anyway. This messy attempt to split social democracy will not be successful; you will not succeed. It's not going in, it's honest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's already split! Even the union is split!]] Quite honestly, you don't need to moralize us either, you don't need to puddle up and ask anyone to apologize or anything else. We are still waiting for the excuse for Carinthia and for the things that have been done in the past. You have to remember what happened while Black-Blue, so you, were in charge: the biggest robbery against pensions, ambulance fees, reduction of the sickness allowance, unemployment benefit, and the courts are still busy with it. Quite honestly, if someone has a reason to apologize, that's what you're doing. You have to apologize, and you have to tell people what things are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And what about damage? Damage – his name is program!]] So, honestly, you really need to pop up at least. For years, she has been trying – there are clear statements that can be proved by everyone – to restrict human rights; that is what you want. You're insulting, mocking and slandering dissidents. Freedom of expression applies only to you, not to anyone else. You hate and divide society. [[Abg. Strache: Is that a self-image?]] And quite honestly: Someone who has a close relationship with “uncensored.at” does not need to be upset about the SPÖ and about the election campaign of the Federal Chancellor at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12615	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, There is a word on business treatment. – Mr Brosz, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12645	Mr President. We are discussing a debate on a German Chancellor's statement. It is sufficiently unusual that the Federal Chancellor does not attend this debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility of the National Council's request to the Federal Chancellor to take part in the debate. This also applies to the rest of the debate. That is why I would like to make the request now before 3 p.m. The debate will take about three-quarters of an hour, and it will also be easy for the television confrontation to take place. I would therefore like to make the request. that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany should be involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12677	I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12701	Mr President. Only on the artificial debate initiated by Mr Brosz: Mr Bundeskanzler is first of all, even if he is not in the hall right now – and I assume that he has preferred the interruption at 3 p.m. to do some human things too; back to the debate on the Rules of Procedure, for our smiling colleagues – anyway, always properly represented by the Secretary of State. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] I would therefore ask, Mr President, that we continue in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12732	Ladies and gentlemen! A request was made on which we must vote. [[Abg. Schieder: The Federal Chancellor is represented!]] – There was nevertheless a request that we should vote on. [[Call to the FPÖ: First Parliament and then not even present!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Is there another word for business treatment? [[Abg. Arbitrator: He's here!]] You know, my Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made, and we still have to vote on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – Mr Klubobmann, please! Mr President, if you wish to speak on behalf of the Commission, you can do so. I can inform you: A request for the presence of the member of the government shall be admissible and shall be voted immediately as an application for a JV. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12811	So there's no misunderstanding. The Federal Chancellor is constitutionally correct because he is represented by the Secretary of State. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would ask you to consider: In any case, he is represented regardless of the vote you may have given.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12838	Mr. Klubobmann! It is not I who will produce a vote, but the plenary will produce a vote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm allowed to hold on once again: A State Secretary may represent a member of the Federal Government, but a request for the presence of the member of the government is permitted and will be voted immediately as a Government application. I've got to do this. I therefore put to the vote the request made by Mr Brosz. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to have a sign of this kind. [[The vast majority of SPÖ representatives agree.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – This is accepted by the majority. I interrupt the meeting until the Federal Chancellor is present in the meeting room.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12905	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and interrupt the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the requested debate of a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:46]] Request for urgent procedure Member Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Health and Women on “Fighting poverty of children and single parents – implementing maintenance guarantee!” (14128/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e12942	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 14128/J, which has now been received by all the Members. There is no reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13034	I give Mrs Heinisch-Hosek as the questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speech must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13055	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated visitors! I am glad that the next two and a half to three hours are dedicated to women, children and some men who are single-parents in this country. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The next two-and-a-half hours will show whether we are all in a position to avoid poverty risks that exist for very many women, children and men in the future. What we are dealing with urgently today would be an important piece of puzzle if someone gets into financial crises or if there is a lack of payment or inability to pay after separation. I believe it is important to start by not talking about women with their children today, to find the stable conditions that perhaps make good money or, if they do not want to, to be at home and to be cared for, where children are well, where they choose the childcare facilities, the schools, and money does not matter. It's not supposed to be about them today. The main issue today is women and their children – 90 percent of single parents’ households are women and their children – and the financial security of these households – are these women and children – who are very often not given in Austria. But we look back very briefly. In recent years, months, weeks and even days, many good decisions have been made and many good decisions have been made that contribute to poverty prevention and poverty reduction in Austria and can bring about greater justice and equal opportunities. Looking back, I can only take one measure where I believe that the different legislation in the federal states has not helped to ensure that all children have the same opportunities in the pre-school field. Now at least the last kindergarten year is offered free of charge, even the second free kindergarten year would be an important measure that ensures that children are first well accommodated, learn from the same age, and that second money cannot be the reason why these children cannot visit the kindergarten. Similarly, a three-quarters of a billion euros has been saved for the Austrian schools. If children live with their single mothers, it is not natural for these women, if they have more than one child – two to three children – to be able to pay lunch in a full-day school, if the maintenance does not flow. But not only that, ladies and gentlemen, it is much more serious. It is – and the start of school has already been some time – also because at the beginning of school children need certain things, be it the sneakers with the white soles, be it the sneakers with the black soles, whether it be other amounts that can be brought in so everyone can participate. I'm not talking about school skiing courses, school country weeks, project weeks, it's also about day trips. This is about workshops in schools where someone comes from outside and perhaps addresses sexual education – we can also be proud that the sex pedagogical class has opened up new dimensions some time ago. It is about the fact that the 5 € contribution may not be manageable, because the single parent budget lacks exactly this money, which would be urgently needed so that children do not live under the poverty line and in winter – and that is not the reason why I have to hear it myself from single parents – cannot be heated enough, so that children can not spend the winter in pleasant warmth, as we find here today in the hall and probably also at home, but under quite different conditions – where shoes are still passed on by siblings to siblings, where it is not possible to buy a thick winter jacket. It has also succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, that 20 sectors have joined in, where women – of course men – earn at least € 1,500 gross. This has not yet been possible for some industries, yet 1 500 € minimum wage would be tax-free the next important step we could have decided on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add: Not all in this House are equally concerned about avoiding child poverty and equipping single parents households in such a way that housing, clothing and the payment of the rent are manageable and a good life is possible. – Yes, it is about just over four million women and about a lot of children in this country. It is on this point, which I would like to explain now, that there are 180 000 single-parent households which children under the age of 25 have at home and are made up of 90 percent of women. There are more than 160 000 women who live alone with their children and are unfortunately very much in favour of poverty. Why? – Because maintenance payments on the one hand, but also the maintenance advance on the other hand are not safe, are not paid and are not guaranteed. Five years ago, a questionnaire survey was carried out by the representation of interests for single mothers and fathers and their children, the so-called Austrian platform for single parents, according to which one fifth of all children do not receive a maintenance and no maintenance advance can be used. [[Call at the FPÖ:Who was there Minister?- Oh, my God!]] According to this survey, more than half of the children receive contributions that are below the needs of a child, the so-called rule requirement. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, some here in the House would actually be ashamed that we have not fixed this up yet. I would also like to briefly explain that this is not a story from now on. Already in the 2008 government programme, measures to ensure maintenance and for the loophole in the maintenance law were written into the government programme, which unfortunately up to date were not possible with the coalition partner but also with other majorities. [[Abg. Schimanek: But you didn't do it!]] Some should be ashamed of that, I think, because it's about children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about basic needs of children and their mothers – sometimes their fathers, not a question – that are too short. In short, they are not coming, because Mr Kurz, who said some time ago Yes to the need to secure the maintenance of children in Austria and to introduce a maintenance guarantee that we propose, is now saying no again. Social democracy has held talks with many experts, with many interested parties. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] Our proposal is next to the proposal, which ensures that we can ensure here in the House that the Federal Government can ensure that nine country proposals and solutions do not have to be maintained again – this may take months, that may take years. First of all, the EIA's proposal excludes all working women, because to link the maintenance advance to the minimum guarantee means getting this grant for maintenance, one has to have almost nothing left. It is without a date when the federal states are to introduce the scheme, and without any idea what the single parents' households at risk of poverty will mean. FPÖ is introducing a likely EU-lawful proposal – not the proposal itself, it has not yet been submitted, but we have already been able to find that it is illegal in the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Maybe you don't bring him in and agree with us, that wouldn't be bad, that would help to reduce child poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, the existing child maintenance right has quite large gaps. It is anchored in several legislative instruments, there are also different departments responsible for it; on the one hand, the General Civil Code applies, on the other hand – attached to the judicial system – the order of execution. Furthermore, the Maintenance Advancement Act, as well as the Family Compensation Act, are also affected. This is exactly where our proposal is: It provides for a supplement to the family allowance, which is assessed in an additional way so that the maintenance guarantee can really benefit all children. It is important that we, as the next step in a next legislative period, bundle the Maintenance Act and link measures together as they belong together. But it is just as important that we act now, because it cannot be that we have been dealing with it for years. If maintenance agents are unable or unwilling to make maintenance, it should be noted that the maintenance is very quick to reduce. The application for a reduction is granted once. But until children and their mothers, perhaps their fathers – it is about single parents’ households – can be entertained for months, if not years. You have to go to court, the decisions are often like a chewing gum. The children get older and bigger and sometimes do not have the most necessary things they would need. Children cost money, ladies and gentlemen. University professor Buchegger published this February in the magazine “Single parent on the way” that a single parent household with a child on average needed €8,600 a year more revenue to reach the level, prosperity, standard of single households. Sometimes a parent doesn't pay because he may not be able to. There are also incompetent fathers, perhaps mothers, ladies and gentlemen who would like to pay, but it is not possible for them to make a living. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Once they have an execution title, they get it...!]] These children would be guaranteed by us according to our example. However, there are usually also fathers who deserve very well, but then pay only two to two and a half times what a child needs at least – this rule requirement –; that is, up, unfortunately, a negative limit is set. If someone deserves a lot, he is not asked to pay for the earnings, but there is a lid. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The so-called Playboy Decree!]] - That's right, you said it. I'm not taking the word into my mouth now. There's a lid that men don't pay too much. But there is no base below, which children need at least, namely between 200 € and 500 €. We think that not 18 should be the border, since we believe it is important to have children, young people up to the 24th century. Year of life, with the family allowance, to also serve with maintenance guarantee, so that training is possible and the maintenance benefits 100 percent of the child's well-being. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that it was not possible to establish another Family Committee and to implement the Maintenance Guarantee together. But it has been possible since 2002 – please let this be broken on the tongue! – that maintenance payments are, of course, deductible from the tax. There was black and blue in the government, I remember. That is, there is a maintenance allowance and a child drop-off amount. You can guess to whom this is beneficial three times: usually very well-deserved men. I mentioned that earlier. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Who has been in government for the past few years?- Oh, my God!]] – Our partner was not present, Mrs Collaborative, so we have not implemented it so far. You can be there, and we can implement it together that children come to their right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to the motion for a reduction which I have mentioned, which stops the flow of money for months or years, with which children who get older and bigger are prevented from making these important payments. I believe that it is time to put in place a resolution that will become a law and urge the next Federal Government to guarantee a maintenance guarantee that will help the inconsistencies of payment and inability to pay adults to get to the jumps by ruling by the state and immediately bringing children to the maintenance guarantee without delay, without waiting. In this way it can be possible that for single parents' households with children under 25 in Austria, it has an end to poverty twice as often as possible, and the financial bottlenecks I have not invented, but are described by those concerned, no longer occur. I think it belongs to both the maintenance advance law and the maintenance law itself developed further. Please let us let the fear of how we hear them again and again, that we transfer and export these achievements abroad! This is not so, because the connection to the place of residence, the commitment to the common household ensures that these supplementary amounts benefit the children who live here with the parent who provides them. It is therefore all the more important to focus on once again that we cannot afford to be a very rich country by a group that has a very small lobby. I hope we all represent the children. We have also decided on the Convention on Children's Rights except for some exceptions – not exceptions in the House, but with the exception of some points. So we could add these points to you, but that's not the issue now. I hope that the little lobby of children will get stronger support and that it will no longer happen that children cannot be sent to a trip, to a school country week, because we are not able here in Parliament to do ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done, namely to prevent poverty, to avoid poverty and also to help children, their parents and their single parents to their right. I beg you It is therefore urgent to rethink this together with us. Perhaps during the day, it will be possible to decide together on legislative measures within the meaning of children and women.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13196	In reply to the question, Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Rendi-Wagner spoke. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13220	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased personally that we still have the opportunity to discuss this important issue, which I personally want to discuss here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] In the last few weeks, a group of society has become a public focus, namely, single-parents and Alone educators in this country. These are about 180 000 mothers and fathers, but above all women and their children, who live in Austria and are often faced with very special challenges, especially financial challenges. Low or no – even missing – maintenance payments are often and most often crucial to these challenges and to the problems of this group. They also decide whether children of single parents have the same opportunities as children with both parents – and that is exactly what matters. The maintenance right has already been referred to. Yes, there are gaps in maintenance law that we urgently have to close. For a long time, therefore, all women's organisations, experts and SPÖs have been strong enough to close this gap. It's about the maintenance guarantee. This guarantee is intended to ensure that each child of a single parent in Austria receives a minimum contribution, which secures it financially and thus saves it from poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I can come to answer the questions. Questions 1 and 2: Looking at all households, according to Statistics Austria in 2016, there were a total of around 310 000 single-parent households in Austria. There are some 180,000 single - parent households in which some 262,000 children under the age of 25 still live from their parents, of which 209 are 700 underage children. According to EU-SILC, poverty risk is defined as follows: A household with only 60 percent of average household income is at risk of poverty. According to EU-SILC, there is a risk of exclusion when a person is threatened by exclusion from the social system. This is the case, for example, if there is an exclusion from the labour market and the social environment or if there is no financial capacity. In other words: The risk of poverty or exclusion means that the apartment may not be sufficiently financed or paid, that it cannot be sufficiently heated or that it needs to be bought cheap food instead of healthy food. According to EU data, the risk of poverty and exclusion of children is 40 percent in 2016. What does this mean in figures for Austria? These are, based on the data of Statistics Austria, 104,880 children under the age of 25, of which 83 are 880 minors. Question 3: There are many reasons why single parents and their children are affected or vulnerable to poverty. A few reasons are mentioned and taken out. Single parents are often forced to work part-time, with which they naturally have a very large wage and salary disadvantage. Of course, they have a much greater burden on their shoulders as regards child care obligations, because there is no partner or partner with whom they can share it. Especially because of this, the comprehensive expansion of all day childcare in Austria is so important, especially in rural areas, where this problem is so eminent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, a common reason why single and single educators in Austria are at risk of poverty is that they have low or missing maintenance payments. That is exactly why we stand here today and discuss this issue. Question 4: Yes, the maintenance advance is an important instrument that already exists under maintenance law. It was introduced in the 1980s. However, the maintenance advance as such only covers a very specific case, i.e. if there is a maintenance debtor that is defined and it is clear that this maintenance debtor must already and can, and is determined how much he has to do and can do. This is precisely the condition that the maintenance advance already committed will be applied at all. In other words, the debtor must be eligible for payment and it must already be decided – mostly before court – what amount he owes to the child. Furthermore, there must be no legitimate reasons to prevent him from doing so. If the recovery of this maintenance is difficult, the child will receive the so-called maintenance advance from the state. In such a case, the state assumes the task of bringing in the maintenance advance instead of the child, and in the meantime, the state pays the child the amount that it should actually get from the father or mother, no matter how high this amount is – that can be 400 €, but that can also be 30 €. That's the maintenance advance. So in this case the child gives a claim to the state, and the state only takes over the recovery of this maintenance. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – No, he can then, of course, rule for it, that’s the big difference. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Now I come to that reason why the maintenance advance alone is not enough to really ensure single-parents and single-parents plus their children in Austria. If the father can no longer pay because, for example, he has become inability to work due to a sudden illness, even if he may like to, then the child does not get anything either. In this case, there is also no requirement that the child might pass on to the State in order to obtain the maintenance for himself in the form of the advance. In this case, single parents and their children will not receive any money in the form of an advance. However, there are also cases in which the maintenance height is not fixed, because one fights endlessly – for months, for years – in court over the amount of maintenance. All of us know relatives, acquaintances or friends who have experienced it this way. In this particular case, the child usually receives either a reduced or no advance. The problem is that, if there is no advance in court proceedings for years, it can happen in these cases that single parents and their children get to the poverty threshold. Questions 5, 6 and 12: The idea that it needs a security for those single parents and their children who are looking through their fingers in the existing system, as just sketched, is not a new one, because we've really been dealing with this for a very long time. For several years now, we have been in exchange with relevant experts from the legal field, with constitutional experts, with social scientists, with affected organizations of single and single educators. In recent months, we have therefore drawn up a proposal for the so-called Maintenance Guarantee – with the help of all these different experts and the organisations concerned – and as a request from the SPÖ Club to the National Council last week. It is also important to say that this request, which we made by SPÖ last week, was received and evaluated positively by many family and single-parent organizations, for example by the Austrian platform for single-parents, by JUNO – Center for Separate and Single-parents, by the project alone, by the Evangelic Women's Work in Austria or also by the Catholic Women's Movement. I may briefly present and outline the main cornerstones of our SPÖ proposal for the maintenance guarantee: First of all, maintenance guarantees are to be given to single-parents who live in the same household with their children, who receive family allowances and who receive no or very little maintenance or maintenance advance. – These are the key points for the right to the maintenance guarantee in accordance with our proposal. The amount of the maintenance guarantee is based on the so-called rule requirement in our proposal, which is a value determined by Austrian courts, how much a child needs to live in Austria every month, i.e. almost caused by costs. The aim is to cover costs for food, clothing, living, school et cetera – all these things should be covered with them. It should be noted that this rule requirement is based on a calculation of 1964 and has been adjusted annually by the courts. In essence, he is staggered after age as follows: Until the final third year of a child's life, it is 205 € per month, and it goes up to 570 € per month from the finished 19th. Year of life. It has also been mentioned that the 2013 Government Convention sets out the preparation of a current child cost analysis and based on it an evaluation of the maximum maintenance limits. In other words, a recalculation would have to take into account the changed social conditions, because, for example, since the 1960s, rental costs have increased significantly in relation to the other cost of living, society has changed in general and costs such as for the Internet or mobile phone, which were not included in 1964. On Question 7: We assume that about half of the children of single parents would benefit from the maintenance guarantee. In figures, about 90,000 single-parent households could benefit from the maintenance guarantee. Questions 8 and 9: With regard to the proposal of the ÖVP: The ÖVP club has submitted an application to introduce a support grant for minimum insurance beneficiaries. In contrast to our proposal, however, this proposal should only be implemented by the federal states – by nine different federal states – as the need-oriented minimum guarantee in the implementing legislation is indeed country matter. That means that in the final result we would have nine different solutions, nine different times; and in my knowledge, the application does not contain a deadline for implementation. That is, it is not even said when which country will really adopt a solution in the sense of the maintenance guarantee – all this is still unclear in the ÖVP proposal. Furthermore, the application provides that only persons receiving the minimum guarantee would have the right to this grant, apologies, to the maintenance guarantee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] – No, according to ÖVP, the grant, not maintenance guarantee, is another wording. However, it is essential – may be noted – for the minimum guarantee that there is hardly any assets. I can remember that in most of the federal states, the capital limit is €4,000. That is to say, one is waiting for these households of single parents and families with their children to be in poverty before giving them something in their hands to get out of this poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Our proposal aims to ensure that children – these hundred thousand children – slide into poverty at all. That's what it's all about. We are following a preventive approach: We do not want children in this country to be vulnerable and vulnerable to poverty. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The main difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that according to the ÖVP proposal, only minimum insurance providers would be entitled to claim, and that would be only 15 percent of the single education budgets in Austria. So the hit rate would be very low. On the other hand, a link to family aid, as in our proposal, is useful from my point of view, because it is a support of a particular kind of family, namely the single parent and her children. The family tax compensation law is federal matter. This would give us the advantage that we have an Austrian-wide single solution. There should be no difference between whether a child is a single parent in Vorarlberg or in Vienna or in Burgenland. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwentner.]] I was also asked about the FPÖ's request. The FPÖ's application concerns the Maintenance Advancement Act and includes a slight procedural simplification in the maintenance advance procedure. The details are to be determined by the Minister of Justice by means of a regulation, according to FPÖ. This proposal would not extend to the audience of maintenance forwarders. That means that this would not be an essential change to the current state. Question 10: On many issues of maintenance law, there are no clear legal requirements on which courts can currently orient themselves. This has led to this in the past, and at the present time again and again, there are partly contradictory case law in many areas. There is no doubt that the law needs to be tightened up, for that is not reasonable. I should also like to give you an example of this, namely the special need: Every child, as you know, has special gifts and needs, because children are not the same, and that is good. This can be a psychotherapy that is necessary, or music lessons. This creates additional expenditure that goes beyond the rule requirement. Legally speaking, the so-called special requirement that can rarely be covered by ordinary maintenance is mentioned. Nevertheless, the case law has increasingly developed in the direction that this so-called special requirement is simply deducted from current maintenance. What does that mean? In such a case, the debtor shall not bear any additional costs; he shall continue to pay the regular maintenance. That is, de facto, the other parent often has to take over these additional costs completely alone. It is precisely in this point that the maintenance right needs to be tightened up, not a question, because this legal gap must be closed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Maintenance Advancement Act also currently has gaps. In contrast to the family allowance, there is maintenance advance only until the child is full - age. A 19-year-old, on the other hand, would theoretically have to sue even if a parent no longer wanted to pay. It could be remembered that the age limit should be increased until the training of these young people in order to avoid it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Choose with 16, but pay for the maintenance up to 30! ...!]] – 25! – Exactly, that is, until 24 or 25. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] On the question 11: The 2013 Government Convention specified the further development of maintenance and maintenance advance law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I can remember that. To this end, the Federal Ministry of Justice set up a working group in May of this year, in which my department and other experts are also represented and in which we work on and discuss these issues. [[Calls and counter-calls between Mr Gisela Wurm and Mr Walter Rosenkranz]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: detonation! It's all right!]] That's what I'm gonna end up with. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress once again that we have a very important issue that has long been overdue to be dealt with. We all have to stick to it, and it is a concern of many single parents and their hundreds of thousands of children we want to keep from poverty. In Austria, child poverty has no place, and that is why I ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13380	We are now going into the debate. First, Mrs Kucharovich's speech. You have 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13405	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I think it is totally great that we are still having a debate today on children and single women who are affected by poverty. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I think it is very central that we can do this today in particular, not just on the subject and talk about it, but in fact on concrete proposals that we put on the table last week. And I am excited how some colleagues will behave. Imagine, you're a kid who's currently in the third grade folk school, and now a school country week or maybe a cinema visit with the class in the evening. I think at the first moment you're glad that you can do something different with school colleagues than just going to the school. But then the joy may not be so great if you tell it at home or because even with your age you have the feeling or the sense of it and the knowledge that this is simply not affordable for – usually – the single mother. Of course, this is also a terrible feeling for the mother concerned, for the single parent concerned. Linked to it – I would like to support some of the things that have already been said by my previous speakers – is, of course, an exclusion within society. I really hope that none of us have experienced this in this form, we – as Members of Parliament, as ministers – are in a very privileged role as regards financial matters, but so are many single teachers, so there are many children of single parents. Single parents and their children, in particular, are twice as often affected by poverty as children of non-institutors, of two-parent households. Why are they affected twice as often? – Because often suddenly the maintenance no longer flows. The maintenance, we have already heard, is a very central element of why one can be affected by poverty. Suddenly, the father, as a rule, makes the request for a reduction in the maintenance. This is not something we invent, but it is a huge topic in many conversations with women. If the request for a reduction is made, then there is a need to maintain payments, and this retention can last for months, for years – that is to say, to zero, completely right – and with this one simply has no money available from today to tomorrow, nothing can pay and is affected by poverty, as has been said. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Zero!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must act now. In 2008, I myself was not in the house yet, it was in the government program, in 2013 it was in the government program: a reform of the maintenance right, the maintenance advance. This is in the field of the Ministry of Justice. Each time we were comforted – not only by the SPÖ and the Greens and other colleagues, but also by the Austrian women's ring. Every time we were comforted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] We were also comforted every time by parliamentary questions: If the Adult Protection Act, at the time that was, so to speak, the Sachwalterschaftsreform, is through, then we devote ourselves to the subject of maintenance law. Ladies and gentlemen! These materials are decided – they are now also vice-chancers, completely right – and nothing has yet happened! [[Abg. Jarolim: The Minister of Justice is now also Vice Chancellor!]] There is a group meeting at interministerial level, but we do not know any results and we do not know any reports from them. The most central thing is: Something has to happen now! It needs a new maintenance right – the Minister has already addressed it, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, too – for the new maintenance right, of course, a new child cost analysis. The existing child cost analysis is from 1964 and is based on how much the rent cost at that time, how much one spent on clothing, food and so on – then: in 1964. Now we're in 2017, and it's been a lot since then. In other words, there is an urgent need for this child cost analysis, and there is an urgent need for a redesign of the rules needed to meet them. In order to prevent us from having to wait even longer for the reform of the Maintenance Advancement Act, the Maintenance Law, we, as SPÖ, together with many interested experts, with affected single parents, have made the proposal to establish a maintenance guarantee. It's at the table, as it were. We all have the opportunity to vote on it and to decide on it today, because we must now act, for children, for young people and for women. In conclusion, the Lamperl is already flashing, I am allowed to submit a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask for the consent of children, young people and women to finally end child poverty and women's poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13494	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13570	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13591	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As the chairman of the Family Committee, I should like to begin by thanking the committee for its good cooperation, even though this matter is a matter of justice in the Committee on Justice. I should like to thank Angela Lueger, Michael Bernhard, Judith Schwentner and also Anneliese Kitzmüller and Leo Steinbichler, who no longer belongs to a political group. I am glad that we have always been able to conduct very intense but open discussions, and thank you for the constructive cooperation. A little pains me that we are being guided by the SPÖ, that we would have prevented another family committee from terminizing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] One day before the last committee day, I think that I should start an initiative and not be particularly constructive. [[Abg. Schwentner: But it would have been possible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] We have brought together a lot in the family sector, we have devoted ourselves to the family allowance in many facets. We have re-examined the childcare allowance and found a solution to get these references via an account. I should like to remind you, Mrs Lueger: We also brought something together about star children. [[Abg. Schwentner:... a bissel unskilled!]] This was also not quite easy at the last meters, but in the end the project was still a success. [[Abg. Schwentner: Exactly!]] Today is about the maintenance guarantee, which now comes from the SPÖ – thank you, Mrs Minister! – has been prepared very objectively. We also know that there are vulnerable children in single school households, but also in households where there are two parents. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, very nice, has talked around to the ÖVP!]] But I'm going to come for that. There has been a television confrontation in which all the top candidates have expressed their support for finding a solution on this point. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Now!]] Everyone has opted to find a solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] The current situation in Parliament is such that the FPÖ has provided an application, a concept that the SPÖ has provided a concept that we have really heard in detail and that the ÖVP has provided a concept. I would like us to discuss these concepts and – that will probably be only in the new period of government – that we will actually come to a solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] Very briefly to our approach: One thing is, we keep what is announced, because our concept also provides a solution for the affected children and families. [[Abg. Schwentner: But only when they have minimum security, that's absurd!]] We must definitely look at the situation to see if these additional benefits would not also go abroad. [[Abg. Schwentner: This is so pitiful!]] The legal experts tell us that this is likely to be the case, and we reject this, because we demand the indexation of family aid in other EU countries. This has been said by German Chancellor Kern very much, very benevolently. Unfortunately, it was not possible with social democracy to put this project into a decision-making process. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Our concept ensures that not only single parents benefit from this support, but also children living with two parents if they need it, because it is about the risk of poverty of children, and children, even if they live with both parents, can get into this situation. And we also have a concept of counter-financing, because this is about amounts in the millions, and if the history is resolved with indexing, it is quite possible to counter-finance some of them. The concept of SPÖ is very short, as a number of questions arise: We need to look at the issue with exportability. [[Abg. Gisela Wurm: Has the woman minister clearly explained!]] We do not want – I would like to stress this once again – to see these funds exported to the European Union. We need to discuss whether there can be an abuse, so you have to look at it very carefully. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Uniquely performed!]] And we also need to talk about financing, because according to the 2015 financial statements, the maintenance advances amounted to € 135 million a year, of which € 55 million are not available. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Gisela Wurm.]] If your concept is implemented into reality, this, according to our experts, causes costs of € 350 to 650 million. I say quite frankly to you, the discussion on the family compensation fund has also been very busy with us in the Family Committee, and I do not let FLAF be eliminated by unthinked decisions! That is why I am still asking you for some time to be able to discuss this objectively so that it can come to a decision soon. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: It's about children! We don't have time!]] In this sense: Thank you for the open words and all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13810	Mrs Schimanek is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13831	Madam President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very glad that we are allowed to deal with the issue of single-parents here in plenary. But what really shakes me: Although very objectively stated, the dispute between the two government parties on this issue is still blatant. They will not come to a green branch. I have now looked at the numbers again. According to the poverty conference, about 18 percent of the Austrian population are at risk of poverty or exclusion, i.e. 1 542,000 people are below the poverty threshold. 3 per cent of the Austrian population, and these are still 257 000 people, have such low incomes that they cannot afford all the essential goods you need to live. A previous speaker, I think, also said: You can't afford healthy food, you can't heat the apartment. This is really a blatant abuse in the rich Austria. Of course, this includes the single parents, but also, not to mention, families with three or more children. Mrs Minister, you have referred to my request, which I made in 2010 already, where I wanted to make a very quick change, because in order to be able to receive a maintenance advance from the State, an enforceable execution title is required in Austria. But you can hardly get it at the speed with which the dishes work in Austria. In this case, sufferers are the single parents and their children, thus having a very high financial disadvantage. Today, three days before the National Council election, or come last week You're finally on it: There's a subject that we've actually forgotten. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: What?]] You forgot! I can prove that to you, of course. My request to amend the Maintenance Advancement Act has been in the Justice Committee since 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – Gisela, before you get upset for a long time, I tell you: He was postponed by the SPÖ every time. I remember when I was in this judicial committee, Mr Steinhauser was there too, all of them spoke in a uniform way of saying that there is a blatant maladministration in Austria in this regard. All the political groups – Mr Steinhauser, I am sure you will confirm it – have promised us that we will carry out a wide-ranging survey on this subject. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's it!]] It is precisely because – the Minister of Justice has raised it today – because there are different country regulations, different approaches, we all have to put together: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Family Affairs and the countries. We were promised! [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's it!]] You promised it and didn't respect it, and that's your responsibility. That's why: Come on. Not three days before the election with any requests, and don't scatter your eyes to the people in Austria sand, if you haven't managed to find a really good solution for the Austrians! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yours was not good!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You both explained that you have held this twice in government agreements, but only now have you managed to bring applications to the National Council. That's embarrassing, that's an eye-removing! They really only scatter sand into the eyes of the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I would like to give you once again the opportunity to accept our requests, which you have constantly postponed and ignored. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e13957	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14047	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Steinhauser's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14068	Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of maintenance guarantee, citizens have had to have a bitter experience. If six politicians stand up in an election situation and all six raise a yes sign, that doesn't mean everyone is for it. But I think it's good to see that before the election. But that's not the only point, I already said it: Today, the ÖVP will also vote against when it comes to harmonizing the rights of workers and employees – as stated in the ÖVP's election programme. It is unfortunate if politicians and politicians on television promise something in the event of election duels and then, five minutes later, do not comply with it. In that case it is particularly unfortunate because it is carried out on the back of those who have a hard situation in life, namely that they have children and too little money for these children to pay at least things like school trips, ski lessons et cetera. [[Abg. Schwentner: Exactly!]] But I didn't really wonder for a reason – colleague Schimanek has already suggested this –: We have been fighting a tough fight for minimum maintenance for ten years. This debate did not arise in the Pulse 4 discussion, as sometimes the impression is raised, but there is a long, long history. I have had this prehistory lifted extra for today's debate to show how tough this dispute is and how little of it can be expected if a top candidate like Sebastian Kurzein keeps a yes sign up. History begins in the Justice Committee of 22.6.2011. At that time – and Mr Schimanek referred to this – we have debated the problem of minimum maintenance and maintenance guarantee intensively, precisely under the premise that the maintenance for some is too little to be able to fight everyday life with the children. Grand Agreement: We make a parliamentary survey, the issue is important and legally difficult! The second part is right, I'll be there later, but it's important. Then the following happened: On 16.9. we presented a proposal. By the way, I was worthy of it from me, even though it is not close to me; You certainly remember – also Mr Stadler in Parliament, who, from whatever motives, has taken part in it. Let's say that... – Yes, I think, from his experience as a popular lawyer, when he was contacted by many single teachers. [[Call the SPÖ: He was a popular lawyer!]] It was not possible – and you know that the holding of an inquiry needs unanimity after the use of the vote – it was not possible to get this unanimity in Parliament. The ÖVP has resisted this survey. – So, for the first time, this concern has remained on the track. Government Convention 2013: Again, the minimum maintenance for children is a topic. We made a new start in 2014. At that time, even Minister of Justice Brandstetter – I can remember – said in the committee that this would be a good idea. Again, because it's not quite simple, he said: Yes, let's get the experts together, let's get together in Parliament, let's discuss this! The problem – I will come back to it later – is federalism and the distribution of competence to the countries. The Minister of Justice said at the time: Yeah, let's make an entertainment survey. I thought: If now Minister Brandstetter recommends to his own group that we make a maintenance survey, that would have to be the breakthrough. Don't do that! Nothing went on again. Now, through the election campaign, a certain dynamic may have come in, but this dynamic is just an apparent one. Now I want to come to the legal; it is actually not quite easy. The SPÖ makes a proposal that seeks to address and solve the problem – we also support this proposal in principle, because it is quite a correct approach – that we say: We do not have the skills for child protection, which would actually be necessary, so we can at least do something for the single parents within the framework of the maintenance advance law. This is quite a real access. But – and this is now the point of the ÖVP, which is not quite wrong – the ÖVP says that there are, of course, children in relationships, which may be in a socially difficult situation due to parental income. The solution would be child protection, then both single and poor families would be covered. We know that the two groups at risk of poverty are single-parents and multiple-child families, i.e. three- and four-child families. That means that such child protection would actually be a great solution. But now the problem of the Republic of Austria begins with the distribution of competence. In turn, the countries would be responsible for this child protection. That is, we do not have the competence in the National Council to adopt this law. That is why I now come to the ÖVP proposal. If you say that you have to attach this to the minimum guarantee, then there is the first problem, that in fact only those children who have parents in the minimum guarantee are affected. But there are parents who deserve little and still have no basic assurance, so that the issue of child poverty is not finally solved. Now I'm coming back to the competence jungle. You're saying something that surprises me, because you're saying, Then let's go into the principle legislation. This surprises me because, when we discussed the minimum guarantee, our approach was always relatively clear, namely: We need uniform standards throughout Austria. And how do we achieve these? – With a principle legislation! There was the ÖVP the party that said: We don't want to. Then the country's single entrances have begun and thus this overall difficult situation, which we now have in the context of minimum security, including the fact that, of course, it is difficult not only for the families concerned, but also for comprehensible incentives, then, if one is affected, to move where minimum security is higher. A common solution would certainly have been better. To offer this now, after one has said before, that is not at all possible, and, I believe, even in the government agreement, that there should no longer be this principle legislation, is the attempt to escape from the Pulse 4 studio and somehow to keep the impression that one represents the concern, but does not really have to implement the fair. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I am really sorry because this conflict of competence, which we have here, is an example of classical misguided federalism, because on the one hand we have a competence at the federal government and, on the other hand, the so-called poverty, as it is still being antiquated, is with the countries. These are conflicts of competence that belong to adjusted ones. The federal government is responsible for social legislation, then it also has the opportunity to become creatively active. Now we're in a skill confusion. There are approaches we support, but of course they do not include everything, and we cannot do the rest because these aid structures do not work. Who's left? – The affected, and that is the case for the children! This hurts me very much because I would define myself as a family man. Only I define family not about father/mother, but about the children. That is why I am sorry if we have six yes in a pulse 4 debate, but at the end of the day politics is blaming, because it turns out that our constitution does not even manage to meet this challenge, or we have politicians who do not remember what they promised in the Pulse 4 studio. Shame, but the 15.10.2017 offers an opportunity for voters to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14128	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14149	Madam President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The subject that has now been raised here has been discussed much wider than the actual maintenance guarantee on which it is concerned. Listening, I have to say honestly, I've wondered about a lot of things. The real topic for single-parents is – I have looked at it –: We're talking about 2.4 million families, we're talking about 1.7 million couples, 386 000 communities, and then we're talking about 261 000 mothers and 48 000 fathers in a single-parent community, one-parent family. That is, if I look at the numbers, the 180 000 vulnerable single-parents, that means: About 80 or 85 percent of women and about 50 percent of men in a single-child family are vulnerable if I follow this discussion now. What surprises me, of course, is, as my colleagues in the Group have also called for discussion, just before the end of the legislative period, to take a decision just before a election, because social democracy has correctly recognized the issue, but there is no form of counter-financing proposal and no clear estimate of the additional costs to the Republic. The problem is that we too, by NEOS, very clearly acknowledge that, of course, a one-mother or one-father family with a child or several children should not drift into poverty. To this end, we are fully committed. In our view, however, a very delicate request in Parliament is just a few days before a election, which we do not know whether it will mean 200, 300, 400 or more million extra costs, and the whole thing at a family tax compensation fund, where we will actually experience a new debt in 2019 of half a billion a year through legislation in recent years. This means that many of the things contained in these family compensation funds are no longer sufficiently financed. I would like to presend on the spot, we stand by our word, which we have given in the pulse 4 transmission: We shall support this motion for a resolution. However, we expect that in the next legislative period, when the relevant legislative matter is presented, consideration will also be given to counter-financing, as we want to address this issue accordingly. The second – and this is also very important from my point of view, because, even if the subject has been discussed many times in Parliament, now with the greatest urgency a request We, as a group, were not invited to participate: There is a lack of significant data! On this question, which data we need in order to be able to make a reasonable decision to close the gap, I would not really wait now, but at the same time we have to prepare to collect the relevant data. Therefore, we demand from NEOS a so-called Sunset Clause, which means that we actually evaluate data. I will come to this later in my own request. What is in fact missing from my point of view is the sufficient justification for social democracy, which is why we have not done anything in recent years. Mr Heinisch-Hosek said that 2008 was already in the government paper. Nine years – and you can't say now that for nine years you only bit out your teeth on the ÖVP. You have been responsible for nine years, that you could have made this a condition for nine years to form a government with the ÖVP. You don't seem to have done that. Nine years has nothing happened, and then everything should happen in a week or two weeks?- Oh, my God! I would like to point out that there is much more to it than a gap in the issue of maintenance guarantees, which is to be closed, and that there are 31 recommendations from the Court of Auditors alone on the subject of maintenance advances. Of the 31 recommendations of the Court of Auditors, neither has social democracy been implemented in my knowledge, nor has the ÖVP. But quite honestly: As far as you are concerned by the ÖVP, it is noticeable that this issue is unpleasant for you because, in short, you have promised that something should happen. Have now You brought in something you knew that everyone else was refusing it and so the thing is done. But I would, as it were, have expected a little more feed in the application, a little more content, a little more concrete ideas. There's no such thing as this. The other – and I would like to address this – concerns the family compensation fund through which the whole is to be financed. I have, and you know that, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, even when you were a minister, has made permanent new requests to do so because it was a question of reform. Mrs Karmasin was endearingly excited, at least as far as the reform is concerned. We have a massive problem when we put in all the new ideas, proposals and support for families. Therefore – and I would like to address our proposals in detail once again – the first thing we really need to do is to decompose and finance only through FLAF, as far as families are concerned. There are many things in the field of education or health where FLAF is not responsible, and there is an urgent need for a reform. The SPÖ has rejected these reforms, which have been proposed by us in the last four years NEOS, every time. The other thing I have already mentioned: Since 2016, FLAF has been building new debts every year: In 2017, it is € 170 million, 2018 € 456 million. Who's to pay for this? – This answer remains both guilty. What is also very important, on my part, is the reason why we cannot go along with the ÖVP proposal. The EIA proposes to link the theme of the maintenance guarantee to the minimum guarantee. To this end alone, it is very concrete: First meeting It is with this, as has rightly been said, only a part of those who are actually suffering and who have been short of the promise of Sebastian. But it also seems to me that you are talking about the This is the first time that the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. We already know today that this will certainly work with minimum security – Mr Loacker will certainly also address it – only very end willingly. That is, you make a proposal that you know that at the end of the day the children it is about will not be helped to a sufficient extent. I would like to make the following request at this point, because I have said that it is also about evidence: [[Quoted print version removed]] At this point, it is very important to me: All that we are discussing today, you would have been able to implement with ease from the SPÖ and you from the ÖVP over the past four years. This is due to a lack of cooperation, to an inability of joint government, on the shoulders of families, on the shoulders of single parents, and this must not be repeated again! In this sense, I would like us to make a family policy for families in the next legislative period and not a privilege of red and black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14250	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14319	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14340	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! I would like to return to the subject of the maintenance guarantee, I would like to put a few figures back into the room, because many are wandering around, and I would like to refer to Statistics Austria. We have around 180 000 family households: 180 000, Statistics Austria. 49 per cent of non-employed and 19 per cent of working single parents are at risk of poverty. This is a percentage which is clearly above the European guideline; that cannot be so! Nearly a quarter of the one-parent budget, says 23 percent, can no longer afford the things of daily life that we have already mentioned here. Now it was simply our goal to develop something that we can help these single parents – with great I. The example with the maintenance guarantee was that where we have said it is true that, if – and most of the time the fathers – the fathers have their maintenance payments fixed, the fathers have their maintenance payments fixed again in court, from then on the woman will not receive anything for the child. That's a big problem. And yes, it's true that we're not going to do anything at the moment, yes, it's true, we've had this problem for a long time, but we also have a coalition partner who hasn't worked with us in this way. [[Abg. Schimanek: You have made my requests adjournment!]] Thus, we have now developed this idea of the maintenance guarantee, which should first meet those who get nothing at all, so that they are secured with money for their children. In the current maintenance right – and I am right to all of you, especially Mr Steinhauser, who has told the story again – we have the problem that these children are simply not getting anything now when the payments are re-established. We know the promises, we know the promises made by the Federal Minister and now also by Vice-Chancellor Brandstetter, who founded a working group three years ago, but never told us what was going on in this working group. There is also no result of this working group. At some point, the time has come when we have said about social democracy: Stop it now! It has been too long, we must help single mothers, single fathers and especially children. We work with figures, data and facts of the children's cost analysis of 1964. Anno at the time was the necessary effort for children to be spent, certainly a completely different one to formulate it now. At that time there was no laptop, at that time there was no mobile phone and all the things that are natural in today's life. This has never been evaluated ever since. We even have the problem that, despite all the requests made to the Minister of Justice, we have not even been informed of how this child cost analysis was compiled by anno at the time. This has not answered us by Mrs Karmasin, nor has Mr Brandstetter been able to answer it. It is therefore very important for us that we have a new child cost analysis, that we clearly raise the rule requirements now, that we receive this maintenance guarantee, and that a reform of the maintenance right generally comes. And that was for us the maintenance guarantee as the smallest common denominator, the first step in the right direction that we can finally come to a complete maintenance reform. [[Abg. Schimanek: After ten years!]] What's also an example for me: One also recognizes democracy by how it deals with children, and I would like to see ourselves there in the sense of the children and the single parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14390	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14412	Madam President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! I think many know the current situation about maintenance law and the maintenance advance right, and I would just like to highlight it very briefly, so that everyone really knows what we are talking about. In the first place, parents and those entitled to education are obliged to provide for the children in a material way. I think we should always keep this in mind. And if it does not work, then we currently have the situation that the state is invading, with the maintenance payments that can be advanced from the family compensation fund. So there is also now – and I would like to say that, as there are, of course, enough children in Austria who need it – a classification that helps to make money available to the children through a government advance as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Schwentner: But they do not complain!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: On the paper!]] I think I can say out of dispute that we all want to improve the children who are vulnerable to poverty in Austria together, because there are weaknesses in the system. There are now three fundamentally different requests – at least at the time when I prepared my speech – from FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP, and we Members have not spoken on each other's behalf. - Shame! Applications differ in principle. I would also like to make it quite clear that from the point of view of our values, it is in principle the case that what we have to do is to be done by ourselves. We do not want the proposed maintenance guarantee to result in the future misuse of social benefits that will open this door and gate. On the contrary, we want a successful performance for children living in Austria and we want children's poverty to belong to the past! [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] And now I can explain why the SPÖ is so wrong with its request: The SPÖ model would be a maintenance guarantee for children across the EU, possibly causing hundreds of million euros of costs. It cannot be our task to ensure that children throughout Europe are financed by Austria and, so to speak, the Austrian taxpayer is on the bag. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Austria! Untruth!]] There are experts on this and that side. I agree with Professor Marhold, the Board of Directors of the Institute for Labour Law and Social Law at WU Vienna, who says quite clearly – also the Vice-Chancellor said this morning in his speech – that there is EU Regulation 883, Article 7, to be exported after family benefits when the maintenance officer works in Austria. – You can’t miss that either. This limitation in the SPÖ application for residence in the country does not help us at all, which is simply illegal in Europe. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the dishes would rush quickly, so nothing would have been won. Furthermore, your application considers a budget income of up to €55 000 per year appropriate to ensure that this child's minimum security is paid. That's $4,000 a month, ladies and gentlemen! That's a lot of money for every family and I don't think there's anything to do with risk of poverty! So we also need to talk about this border, because an income of €55 000 per year is not little. [[Abg. Schwentner: This is your own request!]] The last thing I have to say about your request – Mrs Colleague, you know, I appreciate you very much, but in this respect you are really wrong: [[Abg. Schwentner: This is your own request!]] The application excludes vulnerable children in two-parent families, and that is unconstitutional! You know that very well, and as you can argue, I would like to listen. For the FPÖ application a small note: A provisional maintenance advance is already possible. The limitation of the payment of maintenance advances to Austrian citizens alone is contrary to international law, which is why this application is not sustainable. Our application is objectively safe and accurate. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: This is a supplement to the need-oriented minimum guarantee. This has been criticized by many, I think, that is the right access; based on the rule requirements, that is 200 to 400 €, depending on age. Our model excludes export to the EU. Our model is durable. But above all, ladies and gentlemen: Why should a child in a two-parent family who is vulnerable to poverty be misplaced as a child in a single-parent family? [[Calls of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] Our request is also fully financed by at the same time adapting the family allowance for children living in other EU countries to the cost of living in the country of residence. [[Abg. Schwentner: The fact that you're all involved is really embarrassing!]] In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In short, what has been said before: I am perfectly aware that there are other problems related to the procedure in addition to the way children who are vulnerable to poverty can come to child support. We have problems with the concrete determination of maintenance payments. [[Abg. Schwentner: Incredible!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You know, the duration of the procedure is sometimes a very long one, especially if the maintenance level is affected. And it is very difficult to get a proper definition of the basis for maintenance, especially for self-employed people with children; it often needs expert advice. I suggest that we make it easier by identifying comparative values and unit rates. I also believe that we must make adjustments in procedural law. I am in favour of the introduction of a two-stage procedure, i.e. a procedure whereby maintenance orders are permitted by the legal guardians, so that the maintenance advance from the family compensation fund can be paid relatively quickly. And the proper procedure does not take its course until then. I thank Mr Steinhauser for his clear remarks on the subject of the various competences. They were correct. This is a problem, we have, and there is not only a need for a rethinking of the circumstances, but of course – and this is also possible – for a better cooperation between the courts and the child and youth support agencies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] I say clearly once again: The vice chancellor has set up a working group. We have already worked out a very complex and extremely difficult subject very, very positive and with the approval of all; that was in the case of adult protection law. This Sachwalterreform has succeeded perfectly. I'm expecting that now too. The vice chancellor has set up the working group, and if you are all pretending not to be involved, then you should be told: Many organisations in which you are volunteering are represented in this working group. Therefore, you are also well informed, you know that this working group will work quickly and will come up with solutions in the next legislative period. We have done this work in the Justice Committee in principle for the autumn. The election has come in between, so it will be made by the mandates of the next legislative period. I say that we need to reform the maintenance right. On the basis of our motion for a resolution, I think it will be safe and will prevent the poverty of children in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14580	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14656	The next speaker is Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14678	Ladies and gentlemen! This is already very strange if, three days before the election, a urgent request from the SPÖ to the SPÖ Minister is made here and if [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They come three days before the election that there are problems with the single parents. There are not only problems with the maintenance advance, it does not only concern the single parents, it affects the families as a whole, and there are single parents and single parents – they have not written it with large internal I – also included. What kind of problem do we have? For years you have conducted the Family Ministry – Mrs. Karmasin or anyone before – as a woman minister you and Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek were active, and what happened? [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards Federal Minister Rendi-Wagner]] – Nothing has happened, ladies and gentlemen, nothing at all! I have to blame you very much if you come here now and believe, with husch fuch, dizzy with trara and gest, you will be able to decide something. If you can't even talk to each other, how is that supposed to work? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have repeatedly said that the family compensation fund is used to relieve the families. - Yes. And what about the family compensation fund? – He is constantly being robbed! We have remote family services for which money is taken from FLAF. What's going on? – Nothing is done! Minister Mitterlehner, who is already history, once said that if FLAF was finally exonerated, one could talk about it. Nothing happened! They do not bother at all – I do not take the ÖVP out at all now, not in the least – to do something here. They do not talk about what proposals are to be made, and they do not respond to any other proposals, although we have made proposals for many years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no valorization of family benefits. There is no justice, for example, when we take the papal month as an example, which is supposed to be the great invention. How can a single parent or a single parent take the dad month? In this long-term variant – three years, which is still the most popular variant – we have no protection against termination, no alignment. We've got half this year the father has to take. What's going on? – She looks through her fingers, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ and from the ÖVP! The problem is: They talk to each other and don't do anything for the families or single parents! One thing that SPÖ and ÖVP have to give you already to think: Once freedom and greens agree on questions like these, then there is a need for action, because then everything is really in annoyance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can promise you one: The only ones who have something left here for families and for the families and single parents who are family too, want to do something and really have always done something, we are free people. Ladies and gentlemen! Only then, if we are free in the government will the family finally have the importance that you deserve. It must also be worked on that family is worth living and desirable, and that the children need protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – Well, we have single parents who are also family and belong to it. But you don't do anything for anyone. Now, all of a sudden, you'll see that the single parents have disadvantages. - Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14762	Mrs Mag. Schwentner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14783	Madam President. I would like to draw attention to Mrs Steinacker, who has said that, hopefully, we all agree that every child in this country is equally valuable and that we must protect children from poverty. I think that's how she said it. I do not have the impression – and I am now really turning mainly towards ÖVP – that the ÖVP is ready to treat all children in Austria the same way; I do not speak of the FPÖ in this respect. We have the large group of single-parents and know from every statistics that just multiple-child families and families of single-parents are the most affected groups of people in Austria. That means that this is a particularly vulnerable group that we must look at very carefully. Unfortunately, over the last four years, it has been absolutely missed – and I must also take the SPÖ a bit into account, but I see above all the responsibility of the ÖVP – to take up any initiative – my colleague Albert Steinhauser and colleague Schimanek from FPÖ have already mentioned this – and to develop the points actually agreed in the Government Convention on the Maintenance Advancement Act and to produce a child cost analysis. None of it was picked up. No initiative – not in the Committee on Justice, not in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, not in the Committee – was taken up by the EIA, if it was the subject, yes, not even with the ears, if the issue was discussed! I am actually sorry that at the end of a legislative period, we still have no common solution after four years. This common solution is not easy either, it is a really difficult legal matter. There are always attempts to clarify in a common survey how to support children, how to support households of single parents, how to protect them from poverty, and how to ensure that at the moment when they need to be entertained, when they go missing because the spouses do not pay. As the colleague Heinisch-Hosek has already said, it is the men who abandon the women, and they have no way of living an adequate life with their children. One thing I also have to say: I miss in the family image of the ÖVP – Minister Karmasin is not present now – the picture of the family of single parents; this is missing. In this respect, this group has never been focused on by the Minister of Family during her entire term of office and has therefore not received any support. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] What are you doing about it? Now that we're thinking about where we're trying to find a solution, and the SPÖ is presenting a proposal on the maintenance guarantee, what are you doing? – They come with the minimum guarantee – with the minimum security, which, as we have had to experience, has completely run out of the framework last year. We don't have a federal uniform rule. We have a regime which, in some federal states, especially where ÖVP and FPÖ are in the government, is massively disadvantaged with this well-known lid of multichild families, driving multi-child families into poverty. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, that's not true!]] Partout the ÖVP, who wanted to prevent us from creating a single federal framework and to change the principle laws for that purpose, has never supported us to regulate the federal unit, and this is now with a proposal that the federal unit should be regulated, namely when it comes to excluding almost all those concerned and, as Mrs Minister said, to support 15 percent of the children. I think it is more than embarrassing, I think, to say, that until the end of this legislative period, we have not come any further than actually just to support a small proportion of families. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Perhaps it's too few to know what it means to be alone, what it means to live alone with children, what it means when children can't go to every child's birthday, if they can't take every ski holiday anymore, if they're excluded from social life, because other children can experience it very well and they can't. It's embarrassing for them. Many have shame and fear of acting honestly at all and showing it. And you, valued ÖVP, participate in the game and just think about whether perhaps any children abroad are affected by it or not. It is slowly becoming really absurd that the family party ÖVP, which once called itself Christian social, participates in such things. I'm very, very sorry it came so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14832	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14853	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The SPÖ has put in this urgent request, which actually wanted to bring in Peter Pilz, and I don't know why. At SPÖ, nothing works in this election campaign, not even that works with the urgent request. But this can happen once to a large, routine party. What I find particularly exciting is this heart concern of Peter Pilz; he does not pursue this debate on maintenance law reform at all. His topic is on the agenda, the SPÖ takes off his job and brings in his urgent request, and he is not there at all. This is a model example for a hard-working Member, he really earned his political board according to the old system! What most voters don't know yet: If Mr Pilz has been a clubman in the Pilz list for three years, he will receive the pension from the Clubman's content and not from the Members' salary at all. But he'd rather not be there now, otherwise he might be held back. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let us come to the question of maintenance and the single-parents who have been brought to the meeting here as a group that has been difficult. Yes, they are difficult, but you also have to see what the problem is in Austria compared to other countries. We have a small participation. Only 16.4 percent of all mothers work full-time with partners in the household, but only 21.8 percent of single mothers work full-time; thus a little more than one fifth. There is a high probability that the money will not be enough at the end of the month if you do not work full time. We must therefore consider how we can increase the employment rate so that these women earn so much that they can care for themselves and their families. We have an extremely high part-time rate among women; 47.7 percent of all Austrian women in working life work part-time. Excitingly, in recent years the employment rate for women with dependent children has shifted to that of women who have a partner in the household. In other words, single-parents work on average less than those who have the partner in the household and are not alone. That's remarkable. There is also a need to consider what incentives can be put in place. One point, of course, is that there is bad childcare, that especially in the EDP countries, childcare is often poorly developed, especially in the small ones. This, of course, makes working life difficult for those who have to look and earn on the child alone. But we also need to see what tax incentives we have set, for example a negative tax. So if you don't work enough, you have more of it. This is almost a steep progression for people who deserve little. If they deserve something to do with it, the Fiscus eats a pile of them from the deserved one, according to their logic. We have a set rate in unemployment insurance, so that if you earn more, you pay a lot more unemployment insurance. This is also a negative incentive to gain. It is also necessary to consider whether flexible working hours would be a good contribution to getting a job and a family under one hat. I never really hear a constructive proposal from you either. We must bear in mind that after nearly ten years of government three days before the election campaign, the SPÖ recognises the problem that we have a question of maintenance. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's already campaign!]] I like it when the sloth gets busy in the evening, that's better than never at all, but three days before the election there is such a theme, is not a great achievement!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14896	Next, Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14917	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate makes me sad and angry at the same time. [[Abg. Schimanek: Me too!]] I really have to say that here. As Mr Loacker now regrets that no more has been done here, I must say: It's not up to us. Since 2000, since I have been active in politics, we have repeatedly been talking about reforming maintenance law. My knowledge in 2007, I think, when the last Minister of Justice was put by the SPÖ, Maria Berger last made an improvement for the single-parents in the maintenance advance law. – So much to the facts. Mr Loacker mentioned that part-time work plays a major role in this country when we talk about the risk of poverty of one-parent households. – That’s true, of course. They also mentioned that in some federal states – and I can confirm that because I come from one of these federal states – the childcare facilities are not so designed that one can combine work and family so well that one can take on a full-time job and are also very cost-intensive. And then they say they should work all day?- Oh, my God! – This cannot work because the conditions have not been created. We here in Parliament have repeatedly decided on grants for childcare in kindergartens. We did this, although the countries were responsible for it. That is also mentioned here! We wanted to set initial inflammations. This goes back to Johanna Dohnal. That is also mentioned when we talk about it. But we are not just talking about technical matters, we are talking about these 180 000 children who are really affected. A total of at least 360 000 people are affected because it is also about mothers; it is especially the mothers who care for and care for children. More than 90 percent of all single parents are women, and we do not need to hide that either. As a woman's spokesman, I say, I know how many women who are in this situation are, how these women are doing, who do not know how to organize the day, for example, when the child gets sick when it gets sick longer, when no grandma is at home, because she still works or else lives, because the working world is the same as she is. We know all these situations, and that is why it would be time for this law to be finally reformed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Mrs Schimanek! I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Justice – and I have had enough witnesses to do so: What's the matter with the law of maintenance? What's going on in this working group? What about this cost analysis? - Time and again we were comforted. Here and today, we have the opportunity to help all these people, almost half a million people, women and their children, by coming together to a reasonable consensus. It is about people in the background, it is about children in the background and it is about very, very many women. Please take a heart and agree to this request that we have tabled! [[Abg. Schimanek: That's of transparency! Nine years you haven't done anything!]] It's about a maintenance guarantee, it's not about nine years. It is about a window of time, that we decide today that it is at least 500 000 people, children and single parents, after this 15th century. It's better on October. I would like that and hope that you will also be involved in your party so that we can achieve a result.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e14979	Mrs Mühlberghuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15001	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the urgent request of the SPÖ concerning “Fighting Poverty of Children and Single Teachers [...]” a patch has happened in the headline, as a mistake has happened. Either the mistake has happened consciously or you have forgotten to genderize. 10 percent of the 180,000 single parents are fathers, 18 000 single - parent fathers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek says that this is just a few of the 90 percent. I've got to get rid of this one: Please, these are 18 000 single fathers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ always forgets the fathers, the single fathers. That's where I'm asking myself slowly: Dear men and fathers of the SPÖ, why do you always like this? Don't you ever get through at all? Fathers who reliably care for their children and do nothing other than mothers often have little claim to maintenance like mothers, for courts and youth offices often justify this with the sentence: You are not obliged to care for your children, that is your private business, your private pleasure! – Ladies and gentlemen! There is no private pleasure in education, we should take it a little more seriously! Of course, we need to combat the poverty of children and single parents, because of course we need to change something. But why did all of this come about like this? – Because in the last ten years, the ÖVP and SPÖ have totally failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've been asleep for ten years. For more than a decade, family aid has not been adjusted to inflation rates, and for ten years, child money has not been adjusted to inflation rates, which is at least 30 percent of the value loss. If this had always been adjusted, there would not be so many – more than a million – people living on the poverty line today. Families and mothers and fathers who care for their children alone are always affected. It is very interesting that you encounter this topic three days before the election. My colleague has already mentioned it: Everything has been discussed, it was an agreement, there are talks, but nothing has happened, nothing at all! Three days before the election, however, the SPÖ now insists that this risk of poverty in our country is so advanced and so serious that we now have to do something urgently. [[Abg. Schimanek: Late-ignitioned!]] The voters will thank you for coming up with it only three days before the election! Dear SPÖ! If you really want to do something seriously and really, then you will support our request made by my colleague Carmen Schimanek. She has reported in detail on this. If you really think it is serious, you will support our request, because we are serious about the single mothers and fathers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15061	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15080	Madam President. I think it is good that we are also talking about a women's policy issue towards the end of the campaign – or something that unfortunately is just a women's policy issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] We owe it to the great woman's understander Peter Pilz, that we can now discuss this issue again; unfortunately, he is not here now and cannot follow it. Let us take this opportunity to talk about the structural inequality between women and men in the labour market! Many men who are excited about this issue can be said that men will also have to change a little in the future if we really want to address this issue honestly. The situation of single parents, who are mostly women, is often very precarious and highly improved. We will agree to the request, although there is some need for improvement. But it is not just about stopping these loopholes and that one can do this better, but in principle about how we can improve the situation of single parents in a sustainable way. This is why it is also a matter of gender equality in Austria. There are a few questions that you really have to answer honestly. I am now looking in your direction, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, because this is a matter that affects most of you. For example: Why is child education in Austria still almost exclusively a matter of women? Why is that so? – It is also often the case that it is primarily ÖVP politicians who impose on us their moral ideas and want to tell us how to live our lives. Why do women still have to think at the beginning of their professional life about whether they choose children or careers? Or a current example: Why are successful mothers always asked the question in the top Austrian policy: How do you actually do that, how do you manage to agree on all of this? This question has not yet been asked by any man. What can we finally do to create a modern family understanding in Austria, instead of always holding to rigid, conservative role models that often have nothing to do with family reality in Austria? We want justice at last; that is, justice for fathers who can and should play a stronger role in family life. We also want justice for women on the labour market. We not only want to be able to participate in them, but we want it to be a matter of course that they can participate equally in the labour market and can also create themselves independent and a self-determined life through their own income. Tomorrow's equal pay day again. We always note that in Austria we do not make it if all women who work are still significantly worse off than all men. We also know what the reasons are. If we cannot empower women to be financially independent, whether from the state or from the partner, then we have not achieved this sexual justice. There are a number of labour law, tax law and family policy measures that should be taken long ago in order to make this subject possible at all, which would in particular benefit single parents. For example, we have the issue of childcare; something that we have achieved here in the last second just now with the new Article 15a agreement or the extension of the whole at all. This is a subject that is being neglected, especially when we see how far we are going back there in the development where what we should have been making available for a long time. This is particularly recognised by looking at the objectives set at the beginning of the legislative period on child care. I'm sure that's where the ÖVP is most likely to be blocked. But if you say, Mrs Wurm, that you must not resort to the SPÖ on this issue, because she would have always been for it, then I wonder: Where is the confidence to choose the SPÖ if it has not worked with the coalition partner in the last few years? Who else is to come? [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Because it didn't work! Two-thirds majority with the FPÖ, then we would do everything!]] In the case of kindergartens, it is not only that they are at last available enough for the children to be given there, but it is also important that the high-quality educational facilities are available, with opening hours not only from Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., but also with opening hours and maximum closing days, which can be agreed with a job at all. This is also a theme that is important for single-parents. There are also such things as a legal claim to a childcare centre or the subject of double residence, which we have often discussed, which is also particularly important for single parents. I know that there are still problems with the SPÖ to address this, but that would be something for the next legislative period, which could be an improvement for single parents, if one is concerned with the subject matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] This is how we manage to take the men, even the fathers, into the duty to go in Karenz, even if the child lives with the mother. This is, I believe, a modern, progressive access to this subject. I am concerned with gender equality and how to help women come to financial independence by self-permiting, not only from the partner, but also from the state. This is my approach to women's policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15133	Mr Dr Franz is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15155	Madam President. Minister! High house! Such a finding, as it is here, with the 180 000 single-parents who are expected to be available according to the current statistics, must wake us up and can not cause us to constantly increase subsidies and pump more and more state money into fragmented families, but that we go back to the origin and think: Why has it ever come so far that the family is so little worth today, the state at all and society? This is a problem of the spirit of time and a problem of family policy, which we all want to play here. We always hear that family policy is a cross-sectional matter. That's her too. Each of us concerns family policy, because the sentence of the family, which is the germ cell of the state, continues to apply. Imagine a state with loud single-parents. The left wants this, because these are easy-to-control people. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] A single father, a single mother is easy to control, always has to stop his hand and thank you: Thank you, dear State, for financing me! That's the basic problem. The more we make more of the same and play the state in the foreground, the less the family, the bigger the problem. What you all do from the left side here is a confusion of cause and effect. What we need to do, what Parliament, what politicians, what citizens need to do, is to strengthen the family, not the trend that women and men, that mothers and fathers should be singled out. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] It is also necessary to consider whether the so-called liberation of the woman was really a liberation of the woman, or whether the fact that the then yoke of multiple motherhood had led into the yoke of careers was not a nonsense that actually burdened the woman twice, because, in reality, when I think it to the end, it would be better lifted in a functioning family association. This must be allowed. We should not think about how the state can increase subsidies and thus allow as many women as possible a career. Look Look at the birth rate, look at the divorce rate! It's all hair-shattering and depressing. Why do we have Europe on a continent, why do we have the triple divorce rate of Ireland or Croatia here in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] We should think about it! Why do we have a birth rate of 1.44? Why do academics no longer want children? The wise elite dies out. The women studied no longer have children. We should think about it! Of course, no one should get poor and no single parent, whether male or female, should slide to poverty at his own expense. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Have you ever thought about...?]] It is quite clear that the state has to do something about this, but one cannot raise it to the credo and keep talking about it, that the career is so important for women and that education, care and public funding are the most important thing for children. The most important thing is the child's well-being, and for the children a functioning family is the very best! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15236	The next speaker was Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15257	Madam President. I have to contradict Mr Franz Vehement. I do not understand at all how one can put the claim in the room, that single parents only become single-parents or separate themselves from their partners, because there is a guarantee that they do not have to live in poverty, because we here are fighting for it and we are committed to the fact that single-parent women and men do not have to live on the poverty line. So that's more than paradox! It is incomprehensible what has been brought forth, that is by no means understandable! We are in the situation that since 2008 we have been talking about this important issue, which has been in the government programme since 2008 that this important issue, namely that single parents no longer have to live on the poverty line, has finally been resolved. Nevertheless, this issue has not yet been resolved and will not be resolved today. There are now three different proposals, one from the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the FPÖ, none of the three political groups has yet to compromise with another, in order to solve this major problem which we find in this area and which we all see in common. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] No one has that, and the arguments have been suggested! I would almost say that it could be three times the same request, but if one group is on it, one simply does not agree with the other. This is really more than bad in which situation we are here. Peter Pilz made and received the promise from all six top candidates in the TV confrontation at PULS 4. [[Abg. Where is he?]] Today we are facing the following situation: The promise has not been made between each other – it has not promised the SPÖ of the ÖVP or the FPÖ that a solution will be developed – but these promises have been made towards the affected population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Now nothing happens again, it does not go on a single step. [[Call the Greens.]] Finally, from a joint initiative, as actually adopted, only a party dispute has become – this cannot be a solution! To colleague Steinacker, who is not in the room right now: It has said that the three applications in question have not even been discussed on both sides. – Yes, why has this not been discussed on both sides? [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Where is your request?]] She also said it was a pity not to talk about it. – It has not been discussed because it has not even been possible because the ÖVP has blocked, so that not even a family committee could be established; it has not been able to meet to draw up a compromise proposal together. [[New call for tender Kitzmüller]] What you have proved in recent days is that the ÖVP can perfectly block on the back of the children, on the back of the single parents, with the suggested argument from your side that the maintenance guarantee would go abroad, it would benefit foreign children. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Where is your request?]] – It's more than been cleared out! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinhauser and Mr Kitzmüller.]] The point criticised by the FPÖ that money would go abroad has also been cleared. This is not so easy: It is established that the residence must be domestic, it is established that the children must be reported to the mother or father, i.e. to the single person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] This is the case in the SPÖ proposal, which has been prepared together with our expert Maria Stern, who candidates on the list of Peter Pilz. It has been comprehensive in this proposal – and we are here today, and no group brings it together to jump over its shadows and to draw up a joint compromise proposal. [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] We do not know what the next Federal Government will look like, and it is a pity that no solution has been drawn up for this issue in the last few days and that it cannot be developed today. We know, however, that we – and I too – will also make every effort in the next National Council to ensure that this issue comes back to the tapet. It can't be that in the pre-election campaign, one makes promises to those concerned and then doesn't stick to them in any way, but changes only political change. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Yes, yes! Why don't you ask for anything?]] On the back of those concerned will be made politics, votes will be captured. It is really sad and sad as it is about Austrian democracy and parliamentarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15377	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15398	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! - No, family goes without Taferl! [[Call:Leo, where is the Taferl?]] Mr Holzinger has now shown quite excellently how bad it is when politics is involved in a subject matter, because there is only blockade, and that is the trademark of these last three governments, especially on the subject of family life. I would like to begin with a very different subject: Respect for the performance of single parents, which is a hundred percent even more stress, but generally I want to tell all fathers, mothers and couples a sincere, cordial retribution to God, because that is a great free service for this state, one of the most important achievements. Finally, I would like to say once again: That the cheapest, the best cell in a state is a functioning family, that was thanks to God already mentioned two or three times. However, what escapes family benefits has remained completely unmentioned. Due to the lack of inflation in family aid, for example, the parents still have 17 percent purchasing power loss in daily life, and this 17 percent purchasing power loss is missing from the regional economy. Families don't have the money to travel big on vacation – but if they make or live with children in the regional area, they invest in the regional economy, this money is best invested. Mr Loacker of the NEOS has immediately talked about counter-financing. – This seems to be the only area at all, the family policy, where counter-financing is immediately discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] – That’s not an accusation, it’s not at all interesting to me, because I know a lot of other sectors that don’t talk about counter-financing. I can also speak a little bit to the election campaign: If the plan is quoted in the constituency of a non-presidency candidate – the chancellor is quoted here, but with other candidates, the idea is that they are not even present in the sessions – that is to give the families €2 billion and at the same time to halve the family tax compensation fund, then this is nothing but a mogel pack! I mean, you can't deal with families like that, that's crucial. I also ask everyone to actually look at the party programmes, to see what is in them on the subject of family, which is very crucial. We need to get even more precise. When we talk about family, there is another important issue on the agenda, which will be debated sometime after midnight: We don't need two-class medicine and no two-class food in the family, that's crucial. We have not yet been concerned with this, although this is also a family theme, because thanks to God are often properly cooked when it allows time. It is cooked with basic food, which is intended for the children to eat. Today, however, this becomes another important issue – not at the time of television – which is going to happen in an insanity: with palm oil, with the ingredients, with all the content substances in food, with the keepers, stabilizers. Today we introduce all this to the children – and then we lament, then there are again studies that the children in school have concentration difficulties that they are not attentive. This is a sum of results that burden the children, where there are problems in the field of education and training. I believe that we need to discuss family so comprehensively: from the point of view of education, already from the start, from the point of view of birth, that appropriate framework conditions are created. I mean, you can't talk about financing, because that's where the money is best invested! A single child, who does not get on the wrong track, saves the state hundreds, thousands of euros – and I think that from the start you need a proper base, which is very essential. When we talk about the families: a special area are there the single mothers. I recently spoke to our top candidate, who had four children to care for alone. She kept 20 € in the height of this discussion and asked if one could imagine having to come out as a mother of four children with 20 € for a week. Those who have experienced this know how some people have to scratch their money together in order to fight daily life – we do not talk about making a luxury. I mean, it is very essential, even for the next federal government, that we manage to create a basis for the future for the families, no matter what form, with the ideal form being, of course, the common partnership. This is the basis for the future: The cheapest, best and most affordable cell in the state is the family!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15434	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. That is what we are getting to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to combat poverty and to ensure maintenance. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Calls:Don't get out]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Arbitrators: was only a short promise.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, colleagues and colleagues on support for single-parents by facilitating access to the maintenance advance for Austrian citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on the implementation of a statistical survey on the maintenance grant. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform and safeguarding of child care. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This, in turn, is the minority. This request is also rejected. [[17:10:49]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15529	I shall now take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15553	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I'm glad you're here, Federal Chancellor! Now I have to change again – I was set to my speech earlier, now I have to restart. That was a different subject now, because of course we would have been in the river, now it is a bit more difficult, but I will address the statement by the Federal Chancellor on the topic of “Responsibility for Austria”. Mr Bundeskanzler, I think it is good that one should or would like to have responsibility for Austria. It is only a bit funny for me that the government only now, as the election campaign is already in the final phase, notes that one has to bear responsibility for Austria. I'm wondering, Where was this responsibility in 2015 and 2016? I would like to cut the keyword Refugee Tower in Austria: In my opinion, and I have heard this from many people, from the population, this responsibility for Austria has not been properly realized, so today we have to deal with problems that I think could have been partially prevented. However, since I am now giving my farewell speech, I would like to say goodbye to the House after 14 years – five of which are in the Federal Council and nine years in the National Council. I'm not running for the next legislative period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I would like to make a little revision of my time in this regard. I have given hundreds of speeches here – not on this pult, but above all in the Parliament building – have made a lot of requests, made suggestions, asked questions on topics that seemed questionable to me. I have also put a lot in motion, and some of it has been implemented. Some of these will soon be available to Austrians themselves: Those who have a change mark will only have to stick to a vignette in the future. That was a request that I have accompanied for five years, I believe, and then God has implemented it thanks to the Minister of Transport. I think it's positive to see such things, there's a lot more. The conclusion from my political activity as a parliamentarian, I have already said this in a speech today, is: I see that we are parliamentary representatives of the citizen, of the people, so we should act. I would like to say a little bit in my conscience to those colleagues who will still be sitting in the next National Council and who will be represented here. It is important to look at the people and do what the people want. We should not forget that if we are parliamentarians, people's representatives, we should never forget that. I would have one more request for the next legislative period: You know, the executive is always very close to my heart and without executive there is no security and no well-being in a state. It is important to ensure that our police are well equipped, that they are well equipped and that adequate payment is also ensured. The police must also have periods of rest, so that not, as is very often the case today, the young police officers say: I don't do the job for the money, because then I was burned out at 35, 40 years! That wouldn't be a good starting position. I would like to thank all of you at this point, ladies and gentlemen. The discussions were usually fair – if I have been shot beyond the goal, I would like to apologize in every form, which is happening in Parliament in the heat of the fight, but I think I have been able to maintain a very good relationship with most of them. I will keep in touch with some of them even after my political activity: We've already planned a motorcycle tour, gel, Anton Heinzl, that's all we've done! [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes!]] Across the bank, across the party borders, I have found people I want to keep in touch with. One thing is that one can be hard in the political discussion, but one can also work together human beings; then one comes to a common denominator, and that can only be good. So thanks to colleagues, thanks to the Parliament's management, to all the staff here in the house and also to the ministries and the staff there. We always worked very well together, that was an interesting time. I would also like to thank my party leader Frank Stronach. Frank Stronach started a project a few years ago, set up a good program, and there were a lot of them. Some even now have it in the party program: Fairness is a great thing; Transparency, fairness and truth – these are things that are important in politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Frank has presented something you can talk about even longer. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] Since we are allowed to hold our plenary session here in the beautiful Hofburg, where the emperor has resided, I would like to conclude with his words – I am not in the third person, because I am not the emperor, but I want to close with the words of the old emperor –: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] It was very nice, I was very happy!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15617	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank you very much and very much. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15641	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, taking responsibility for Austria means for the Federal Government, but also for the National Council, the problems of the It's a country to solve. This means negotiating, seeking solutions and making compromises when it serves the country – and that is independent of individual interests, instead, the interests of the country must be superior. The basic responsibility we all bear is that no human beings are left behind when it comes to covering basic needs such as work, health and housing. That is where the great effort of Chancellor Kern and his government team speaks for itself, and the programme we have is the best for Austria. Many of the decisions taken during this legislative period bear a social and red manuscript. Our Federal Chancellor has already mentioned today that an area is still open, and that is the quiet housing: This has been stretched out, and as a residential speaker, I am far away from issuing a personal license to all the responsibilities here. A lot of time has gone aside on the subject of living, and this, although there has already been a comprehensive government agreement in 2013, which has also been signed. After several years of negotiation, I will tell you: I know nothing more unbinding in this Republic than the commitment and signature of the ÖVP under this government agreement. The name could also be short of it, because in the last two National Council meetings, promised, already signed implementations of reforms were blocked. It is also necessary to seek compromises in the course of negotiations, and there has been no mention of them. From my point of view, there were blatant negotiations to check that the standstill in the law of residence is not the starting point, but the goal of the ÖVP. We have calculated in the SPÖ on the basis of data from Statistics Austria, which would save tenants, for example, would already apply to the universal rental law that we have presented. For rents, if we start from 684,000 private apartments and reduce the rent by only 50 cents, it would be € 1.4 billion in five years that will save the tenants. If you calculate it differently and only draw on the contracts that are being concluded each year, that is not what it is now, on average, €11; if you discount this by €1 and charge €10, then this would be €1.3 billion in a legislative period, saving the tenants. With about 30 000 contracts concluded, which are made comfortable – which is paid in particular by tenants; away from that! – there would be a savings of 196 million €. The biggest items for tenants are the areas which are not part of the current operation; if these were to fall out, the tenants would pay $4.1 billion less in five years. These three measures result in €5.75 billion paid by tenants for the standstill caused by the ÖVP – and this corresponds to the biggest tax reform we have carried out; this amounted to €5 billion. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15716	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Mag. Cups are properly inserted and are under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15812	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15833	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said the right words, but unfortunately the wrong things have been done. If you are talking about responsibility, you should consider beforehand, which means the concept of responsibility for all of us and for the citizens of Austria. Responsibility means being able to give answers. You have not given us any answers today – to all the stories about Mr Silberstein, to the Facebook-Storys et cetera – and you have not told the Austrians at all about who really is behind it and what you have done to colleagues here in Parliament and the Austrian Republic in the last few weeks and months. All that was done in the context of this campaign history was not suitable to improve in any way the questionable reputation of Austrian politics. Unfortunately, you have suffocated that, Federal Chancellor! If you, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic, are talking about responsibility, then you should also put the responsibility for the country in the foreground and not always explain to us how important Europe and the European relations are; then you should repent, think about yourself and see where you are German chancellors. They are the Federal Chancellor of Austria. Austria is a nation, and if you want a Europe that works, you have to stand up for a Europe of the Fatherlands, because you have to stand straight for your father country Austria. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic ……]] I can invite you to think again about whether you have found the right words. - I don't think so. I think your speech is more like a chancellor than a real German chancellor. From my point of view, this election campaign – I have been in this world for 54 years – was the worst that Austria has ever experienced; it has massively damaged Austria and all of us, all politicians, and you still do not have the will and not the sense of responsibility to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hübner]] I'm sorry, I made a serious mistake! That might have saved your Chancellorship, so I see black. Responsibility is certainly not something one wrote with populist sayings and with beautiful phrases three days before the election in one – well, has Rudi Fuzzi written them or not? – Speak here still can bend. I think you have done even more harm to yourself today; the damage is already great anyway. In this sense, I don't want to have much criticism at all, but I still wish you all the best, but I wish another German chancellor for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15902	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e15923	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What we had to experience in the last days and weeks around the Affaire valley of silverstone was really an unworthy spectacle. I would like to say that was the low point we all had to experience – we have watched the last election battles. Mr Bundeskanzler, even if you still so often explain to us that Tal Silberstein, the expert for Dirty Campaign, has been employed to control any statistics, so this is absolutely not credible for me; that would be about as if a hotelier were to put the top chef Frank Rosin to wash the plate. No one believes that! [[Congratulations to Mr Hafenecker, Mr Kickl and Mr Hagen.]] If you, Federal Chancellor, are producing and saying: We, the SPÖ, have paid the advertising agency that should shoot these anti-short videos, but we have nothing to do with that at all!, then that is absolutely not credible for me and there is no distance. There would, as my colleagues have said, be an excuse to the people and apologise for all the politicians in this country who are serious about it. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP and by Mr Hafenecker and Mr Kickl]] All of us are in disrepute by such machinations. [[Congratulations on the part of representatives of the ÖVP, as well as on Mr Hagen and Mr Lintl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm thinking about Rudi. Fusion, from which you have now also distanced yourself, but also only after having become aware of what arrogance, with what pressure, with what power, all rules he is dealing with people in excess. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you look at the protocols on WhatsApp that he wrote to Anna J, according to the motto – I quote –: “You have your phone records. And sue the A[...] away!"!, then I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that is not acceptable. Mr. Federal chancellor, that would require not only a removal from your side, but also a judicial persecution. That's not how you deal with people. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Now, if you're going to think or explain to us that you're not so close to me anyway, then I'd like an e-mail from 6. Citing January 2017, which you wrote to Mr Fuzzi at 0.47 o'clock: “I’m so happy that you do that, highly value your intellect and your formulation. Thank you! Lg ck” Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: Madness! Incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] There is nothing to cover up, there is a demand for propriety, there is a demand to show attitude – many politicians, politicians in all political groups, my highest appreciation for it, but I am sorry that some politicians, including my former group, do not have that. [[Abg. Wenninger: You were... in the last election campaign! ... Stronach!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech, and I would like to thank you here – because you mentioned the name Frank Stronach – personally at Frank Stronach for using life, energy and strength to bring this country to a better path. None of you can imagine how much energy this man has worked hours by hour to change Austria; he has always said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Austria is going to the wall! If we continue as this federal government has done in recent years, then we are really driving on the wall. After this election, there is only one chance: a reorientation, away from the fact that there is only a dispute on the government bank, and to the fact that, at last, constructive work is being done. [[Assured by Mr Franz and Mr Hagen.]] This is what the Austrians deserve, and it is high time that this was also done by those responsible in this form. In this sense, I would like to wish you all the best. I wish you a lot of strength, a lot of health and good, whatever the path you will be in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16022	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks also from this point of view for your cooperation in this House and for the future! The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16046	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you have followed the German Chancellor's statement and the subsequent debate, you will notice that at the end of the election campaign a new Gag has developed, namely that everyone says it is very unfortunate that policy for staging has been achieved – not 95 percent but 100 percent, one could say – and in the same breath makes it clear that he does not intend to change that. Or have you, ladies and gentlemen, only somehow noticed the approach to a debate on the important issues? - You're going to give me a right, that wasn't the case. That is also a reason, and I would like to stress this once again why we need to change the way in which things are going, because it is not the case that direct democracy would be exposed to a particular degree of demagogy, the opposite is the case. If the basis of demagogy is that one has a proper talent for self-scheduling and the necessary money to present it to a broad public, then this campaign has now proved that representative democracy is particularly vulnerable. On the contrary, the direct democratic instruments, as we know them from Switzerland, which have been in use there for 170 years, do not show this vulnerability. Very sober: 100 000 people can start a referendum; 50,000 are, when it comes to a law, 100,000 if the citizens want to put something on the agenda. [[Abg. Kickl: We'll do that!]] – Not 250 000, but 100 000, I would have liked to hear that again, because it is also interesting to see if an instrument is sharp or not. Then there is a publicly funded voting book, quite fair and balanced, so it does not have an advantage with the large budget and the promotion of parties, but everyone can enjoy this advantage. There Pro and Contra are discussed soberly over weeks, every citizen is taking a picture, and then there is a vote. This is a comparatively reasonable and unscathed procedure, and I would very much recommend to oppose the productions, at last to direct democracy, and so, Mr Kickl, that the obstacle is not as high as it is in the electoral programme; 250 000 is far too high, 100 000 must be enough. For this, you will get any support, because then it will be possible to discuss those issues that are existential, but which have fallen into some kind of taboo. We, the Free List of Austria, have experienced this particularly in this election campaign. There is no doubt that the question of the EU's overarching structure is very much about the scope of each Austrian chancellor. Juncker, the President of the Commission, has announced that four weeks ago, the European Union is now taking a very decisive step towards the centralized superstate, if one wants to say so, on several points. You didn't answer me back then, but I've already asked you: What about the European Finance Minister, what is your task then? How will this affect if the euro area is extended to all countries, even to those who do not want it? What about the European asylum authority, the rules we do not yet know, which we will only have a very minimal influence on – Austria represents 2% of the European population – which asylum seekers will allocate to the countries? Everything that promises core and short, namely a more restrictive immigration policy, can be written down if one does not previously oppose this asylum authority. - That's the second point. The third point is not entirely irrelevant either: the European army, equipped with nuclear weapons. What are we doing now? Are we involved, just as we have always done, infringing neutrality and doing it anyway? Or do we discuss neutrality, we get rid of it? Or are we trying to negotiate that we're not there? These questions are the crucial questions, and if you accept these crucial questions – and we have experienced that – it exceeds a red line, it does not happen. All of you here are of the opinion that we are not going to do so, we are going to do so; I think there has once been one who has spoken about the Constitutional Arch; it seems that the debate on the EU is not inside. If you, ladies and gentlemen, but want someone to be in this house who passes this red line for the benefit of Austria and asks these existential questions, please remember: That can only be us, the Free List Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16101	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16123	Mr President. Minister! Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “Responsible for Austria” – that was the title of the German Chancellor’s speech on this item on the agenda. Responsibility for Austria – these three words each politician likes to say, but what comes out for the voters is very different and often not satisfying for the voters. My predecessor, our top candidate Barbara Rosenkranz, has already done a lot of positive and right to why the Free List of Austria is the only alternative to the established parties. [[Abg. Köchl: The fourth party: FPÖ, BZÖ, STRONACH, Free list!]] I would like to work out some important differences here, especially with the Freedom Party. Today, when I heard the speeches of Kickl and Strache, the insults and the remarks to formulate them kindly, toward Federal Chancellors, I got the impression that one would like to distract from one's own topics here, that one would like to distract from talking about the EU in 2016 when the Brexit decision fell. [[Abg. Lover: Martina, you can't do that...!]] It was very critical of the EU that Strache and Vilimsky called for a referendum to be held on the EU's exit. What can be heard in the election campaign now? What was on the 20th. To hear in a TV discussion on September 1st? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, how the FPÖ is leaving its line, just to make itself beautiful to form a government with this page or with this page. [[Abg. Kickl: What about direct democracy? That doesn't fit...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They come together from different political groups!]] [[First towards ÖVP, then towards SPÖ pointing]] Some people know this too, but they do not yet know enough, so I would like to use my speaking time here to inform them of this. ==References== September, the FPÖ's party observer said that there is no majority in favour of leaving the EU, and that has never been demanded by the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] If there is an initiative for a referendum on Austria's withdrawal from the EU, the FPÖ will say no. [[Abg. Belakovich: If you're already quoting, please be right!]] A departure from the EU is stupid and absurd. - Nomen est omen. [[Abg. Kickl: What does that mean, nomen est omen?]] – A referendum on Austria's withdrawal from the EU will not be a FPÖ measure. - Quote. What do the Austrians expect when Mr. Strache becomes Chancellor? As chancellors, I will not seek a referendum on the withdrawal of Austria from the EU. Instead, I would recommend not to leave the EU. - Quote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is something you have to know here, and you have to be liked by the FPÖ. Here you also need to remember that you are depressing from your values, that you are moving away from your program and that you are thus putting many voters in the head. [[Abg. Belakovich: What values?]] These voters, who would otherwise not go to election, have with us, at the Free List of Austria, an alternative that they can choose. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] - Laugh! Whoever laughs at the end, laughs best and will be right. I also cannot understand Mrs Inge Rauscher at all, that was the initiator and representative of the EU's withdrawal people's desire, which was not unsuccessful with 261 159 supporters. This woman, Rauscher, has also come across your face and is now supporting the FPÖ's line with full-page advertisements because the FPÖ is in favour of direct democracy and a referendum for the EU's withdrawal. [[Abg. Kickl: Now insult the woman Rauscher!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] - After haha! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that a lot of voters will look at this parliamentary debate, that they can form their own opinion and I have also contributed to the detachment of the FPÖ here. [[Abg. Kickl: What's the name of the current party you're talking to?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you with the whites now?]] The FPÖ preaches water and drinks wine and does not take it very seriously with the responsibility for Austria, because you do not need to accuse the chancellor so much. [[Abg. Kickl: The frustration is great!]] - Yes, he who shouts out loud, he buys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16341	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16363	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, “Responsible for Austria”! I may be allowed to start right now before I go outside to democracy, because it will be the elephant round again, where the citizens are immediately being misinformed. There only half of the candidates are discussing, therefore, dear taxpayers, who will look at the discussion after work done in the evening: There are six other parties wishing to participate in this discussion but not allowed. On the subject of responsibility for Austria, I would like to work out clearly what a small party can do in contrast to the big ones. I came to the National Council at the time and said: Let us talk in this house about life, about people, about the people, about the citizens! I was able to talk about this life for 21 hours. I think I can also say from the people that they were very satisfied about the feedback from the citizens. You see, I've agreed to their problems here. .. We have succeeded – and I am particularly proud of that, even if this is discussed at such a later hour – in showing the largest food scandal in Europe, which has also reached Austria, namely palm oil; 11 years ago, when I started on this subject, we were said to be crazy. In cooperation with our colleague Dietrich, we have also succeeded in reaching the full manpower of the military music chapels again. I thank all the volunteers at this point – whether fire brigade, sports clubs, blue light organizations, musicians – for their great performance, because the military music chapels are a good training site next to the music schools. We have succeeded in showing, with a request from the colleague, Refuserstorfer, that over 600 000 e-cards are on the road anonymously in Austria. We succeeded in showing with the military command of Upper Austria that there were 150,000 attacks of illegals. And we are discussing ceilings in this House! Well, how can we discuss ceilings if we do not know how many asylum seekers there are in our own country? It is therefore important that small groups are represented here in the house, that small groups here also ensure that democracy is brought in and democracy is lived. That's very important. Great promises will be pasted: Justice, “Fairness” – you read everything on the posters. I'm thinking about the last pension increase, it's self-explanatory. The small pensioners with 800 € – this is a big one for the small pensioners anyway – get 17.60 € increase; but this is explained to them as a huge advantage because they get 2.2 percent. The pensioners of higher pensions, for example, €3 000, get €48, which is 1.6 percent. That's where the sheriff is going ever further apart. All day long we discuss this sheer: For the workers, for the employees – this is still happening today – we have already done it with the pensioners, and for the families we have just discussed it. Therefore, I believe that we should discuss much more honestly here; this should be much more just, indeed just – not: new justice, it is either something unfair or it is just. That is why I can come to a very essential explanation. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is the second explanation!]] Many of my colleagues were surprised and asked: Leo, where are you taking your optimism? The whites will never move into Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, this board is self-explanatory [[pointing to a panel on the speaker’s desk, on which a colorful pie chart with the title “Electorate – National Council election 2013” is shown]] The whites were already the largest group in the last 24 percent election. I appeal here at this point – yes, I already notice the pain – to all those who have said so far: [[Abg. Lopatka: Have you been running?]] This system is invariable, I am not going to the election!, in the belief that they have protested with the refusal to vote against the system. At this very point I appeal to actively choose the whites, otherwise in the evening the white voice – and that was the biggest block – will be eaten up by the system and used precisely by the system. Dear voters, no matter what age, whatever level of education: We want to be the voice of the people! We want to democratize Austria! Article 1 of our Constitution states that in a democracy power goes out from the people. I think that's the very crucial sentence. And because today we are also discussing the future of Austria: We need a careful handling of the taxpayers' money and resources. We ask for broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16422	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Becher, colleagues and colleagues on fair rent now – living needs to be manageable again. Who agrees to this request? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[17:46:42]] 3rd. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues with regard to a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Constitutional Act on Empowerments of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Municipal Federation (2323/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16490	That's what we're going to do. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Constitutional Committee had a period of up to 11 months. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There is no oral reporting. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. First word message: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16524	Mr President. Laws that are prepared without consideration, chicken-puche, a sloppy solution that we will still suffer for a long time... [[Abg. Belakovich: Louter, please!]] [[Abg. Auer: Very bad acoustics!]] I can make another speech sample: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Is it better now? [[Yeah.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Laws without review, hush-push prepared, a sloppy solution that we will still suffer for a long time – I am absolutely prepared for it, but properly prepared with a good review time. – This is clearly what the Chancellor and ÖVP chief is saying about their own templates of the ÖVP that they are bringing in here, because there was neither a review nor a sufficient consultation here. Not even in committee was this law. I therefore assume that the EIA will not agree with its own proposal here, because it does not meet at least its own requirements. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To be honest, however, the debate on the budget is more important, I think, the question: Who pays what taxes in Austria? We had this debate here a week ago. I have criticised the fact that there is a large donor of the ÖVP, who is on the list of withdrawals from Liechtenstein, and that the Minister of Finance is not doing anything, that the Minister of Finance does not send out tax auditors, not only to the large donor, but in general, to drive this money. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] At least this is about €3.3 billion, which must be checked whether this is black money or not. [[Abg. Hafenecker: “Turkish money”!]] The Minister also did not comment in plenary on why he is there and does nothing about it. The second thing that has been debated here is that I have said here that the same large donor has a tax structure with companies so that he does not pay income tax, and actually pays less than €3,000 income tax per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What I found particularly interesting is that the large donor has confirmed this 100%. He said: Yes, I really pay less income tax, less social security contributions than any Austrian and any Austrian who earns more than €1 400 net a month! And he said, Yes, I have a tax structure for my board salary at this company, and thus I actually save myself – not theoretically, but actually – in about 50 percent of the taxes and taxes I would have had to pay if I had taxed this as income tax! There are at least two companies inside this construction. One he mentioned to the media, the other to the owners. You can read all of this in the KTM business report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Interestingly, what he said is: Yes, when the short plans come, I profit even more, then I pay less tax! [[The speaker places a panel with the label “ÖVP Big Donors”, on which a bar chart is shown, on the speaker's desk.]] If he taxed it as an income tax, he would have to pay about € 1 million for these two years that it went on. In fact, he himself says that he has paid only half, half a million. And if the short plans had already been implemented: Yes, then I would actually have paid zero euros! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I find this revelation very exciting that this person also says and confirms: Yes, I would benefit from it, because I would actually not pay any tax at all! I'll tell you: All international organisations, such as the IMF or the OECD, all say – not only for Austria, but for the whole world – that the highest percentage, those who really make a lot of money, are finally properly taxed, because they do not pay their taxes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] There are two parties in our country – yes, this also concerns you, Minister of Finance, two parties, who are only thinking about how they can support those who are now saving half of what everyone else has to pay in such a way that they don't have to pay anything at all. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] This is ÖVP and FPÖ. This is probably the more essential question when it comes to the budget, which is to ensure that everyone pays their proper contribution and that those who don't pay their proper contribution today, but who have dizzy corporate structures, don't pay anything at all, but finally pay what they should pay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Rädler keeps an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] In this sense, please think of it, even on the election day, of course, when they are going to vote: Do I belong to the 95 percent who go to work, pay decently like all other taxes, or do I belong to the top 1, 2 percent, which – above all by the ÖVP – are protected here, only to see that they do not pay any more taxes, although they do not make a fair contribution today? Please ask yourself this question on the election day! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16686	Member of the European Parliament The next speaker is Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16707	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are two speeches in the life of a parliamentarian, which represent a very special challenge, a special moment. This is the first speech as a newly praised Member, because in the main body of the Republic, in the Austrian National Council, many have to speak excellent and experienced Members. The first impression should be more positive, as there is obviously no second chance of a first impression. So many of my colleagues are still in good memory. I am sure that everyone and everyone can still remember the first statements that were made here. The part-session is the second particular speech. This is less about what and how it should be said – I could start a marathon speech now – but it is about a summary of what has been experienced here in the house, the policy represented and the many political decisions that have been carried and shaped by their own conviction for the population. When I gave my first speech here in this House, not here, but in Parliament, over 34 years ago, I couldn't imagine that the work in the National Council would become one of my most important tasks in life. Today, however, such a crucial period of life is ending for me. It is obvious that as farmers, long-term mayors and officials in the cooperative and banking sector, I am particularly interested in agriculture and forestry, the rural family farms, as long-term local speakers, the population in the municipalities and the economic development of our entrepreneurs – in addition to agriculture. My particular interest and But passion has been a matter of budgetary policy for many years; I have had the opportunity to take part in it as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets for over ten years. When I was praised in 1983, the public debt of the Republic amounted to € 40.5 billion or 43.5% of GDP. In 2016 we recorded a debt of € 295 billion or 83.6 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That should be a doubling!]] Of course: The world has changed completely in these decades, not just here in the House. Austria has developed into one of the richest countries in the world with a strong economy and one of the best social systems worldwide. The current changes required new investments in education, in universities, in infrastructure, in the economy, also in agriculture and forestry year after year. At the same time, we were always required to reform and realign the tax system, the social system, the pension system, the health system, the labour market policy, the care and so on. In each of the ten legislative periods I have experienced, there have been tax reforms, reforms of the pension system, the economy, educational reforms et cetera, of course, ongoing efforts to consolidate the government budget, to keep re-indebtedness as low as possible and to limit public debt. This has not really been achieved. Some of us can still remember 2005 when, for the first time, we held debates on a debt brake in the High House State Debt Committee. In my opinion, this was a first important step; six years later and as a result of the European financial crisis and the risk of the loss of the triple A rating at that time, it finally succeeded in deciding on a debt brake in Austria. Well known and regrettably, the then proposal did not receive the approval of the opposition parties, so we were only able to decide the debt brake by a simple majority in the Federal Budget Act. For the first time in 2017, the structural deficit of the Austrian government budget should not exceed 0.45 percent of GDP. Exception: in natural disasters and in emergency situations. That is why, at the last National Council meeting, my group has tabled a request for a constitutionally regulated debt brake in line with the German rules. The purpose of this debt brake is to clearly consolidate the government's commitment to the zero deficit. The stricter national rules will also ensure the achievement of the existing EU standards. As a long-standing parliamentarian – knowing that You have to consider such a principle for a long time – you need time and you have to mature – and I think we have done this enough in recent years. It is only interesting that the opposition did not agree at the time. Today, the SPÖ obviously does not agree, while the then and today opposition party, the great opposition party FPÖ, obviously agrees. Ladies and gentlemen! We should take an example in Upper Austria where the Landtag has decided to do so: the so-called debt brake. If I had to sum up my experience in this House, I would say: A modern democratic state is called upon to think, above all, of our youth, of the future, to allow it a real future perspective and to shape it, in the fields of education, the labour market, the sustainable housing – and the state budget, based on a sustainable budget, for one thing we should know: No children can play on debt mountains. On Sunday, Austria will again elect a new National Council. The many concepts and plans of the parties have been discussed intensively in recent weeks and months. Let us give a sign that all projects and promises will also be possible at the same time, something that has never succeeded in recent years: a state budget that is funded for the future. Norbert Blüm, a well-known former political politician, said: “The debt of the state has always paid for the small people.” Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: That's something!]] I would like to add a few more thoughts to my remarks and ask you: Don't take this as an instruction or as a better realization, that's what I'm saying, and don't let me do it! I have been thinking for a number of years now more about whether all that we have decided in connection with the Party Financing Act makes sense. I claim that we have shot beyond the target for community party organisations, I even mean far beyond that. I am also concerned about why fewer lawyers, tax advisers, financial experts, doctors and managers are finding themselves here in Parliament as colleagues: Is it the payment? Are these conditions? Or is it the image, the negative image of politics? One thing I found: If an economic manager performs several functions or has several supervisory positions, media say that this person is an interesting, influential, dynamic person. On the other hand, if a politician performs only half of such functions, he or she will be labeled by the media as an office cumulator. – Not to mention the payment: A ministerial content cannot even trigger a tired smile, and there you don't have to earn as much as the cast farmer with his 7.4 million, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Just no envy!]] But above all, politics – and I do not use anyone – should focus on not primarily presenting the proposals of the other party negatively, but on them – as in the economy – to present their own product more positively. Now I come to the issue of the ideal politician. There were two interesting comments, one by Andreas Koller, and that is the following – I quote –: “An ideal politician should immediately and without murmuring if he makes a mistake. However, he is not to return to his old breadbreadbreadbreadbreadblower, [...]. Because it smells like a supply. He is not supposed to dock in the private business either, because then “Postenschacher!” is in the newspaper. And even if the former politician should not take advantage of the fixed-term salary advance due to him, at least many people find themselves either pragmatized or secured by a rich ASVG processing." The second comment is from Kurt Scholz – quote from the 2015 newspaper “The Press”: There are examples of journalists who are always showing us how to be the ideal politician who have changed to politics. They're instructive. They were not real successes. – Quote Kurt Scholz. But really headshaking prepares me and is incomprehensible to me – and I really think here – the level of punishment in the condemnation of the mayor's damage in Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have to comment on this judgment, but the level, the extent I have to question. [[Abg. Kogler: The measure of punishment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also wonder – and we have also helped the country of Carinthia, tag hypo, at the expense of the federal government: What was in many communities of Austria? I know you can't compare both. But: What was the situation in many communities in Austria, where the individual local authority helped certain communities to avoid disaster? Finally, I would like to say: On Sunday it will be elected. Elections are not terrifying, but we should be pleased that we have the opportunity to decide freely. What we all urgently need is a disarmament of language. That was conjured several times, but unfortunately not observed. We all need to know: There's a day after that! Finally, I should like to express my express thanks to all the representatives of all the political groups here in the House and to all the employees of all the political groups, the Parliamentary Directorate and all the institutions I have benefited from. I have experienced many beautiful hours and days and years of success to deal with difficult moments, but always with enthusiasm and joy politicians, whether here in Parliament or on site in the community. I wish you all time for you, for your families, for friends, despite the hustle and bustle, for they accompany you for a lifetime. I would like you, very often also the courage to give each other mutual support beyond the borders of the political groups, but above all the ability to inspire young people for politics, for responsibility, to show them how beautiful it can be to cooperate and to form for our home country. Total: It was a nice time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16787	Mr Auer, thanks also from this point of view for the long-standing cooperation in this House and all the good for the future. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16812	Mr President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! A Parliament which makes a urgent request, where the one who does this is not even present in the vote, and a Member of Parliament, Jan Krainer, who turns out here and completely fails to repeat the untruths: That is, I believe, not what we have to understand under the responsibility of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to Husch-Pufsch-Law, the present bill is by no means such, for it was already ready for decision. Their decision has failed that, for whatever reason one can understand historically, the promise of the FPÖ was withdrawn at that time, which one would have needed to produce the two-thirds majority for the Constitution. Nothing would have prevented us from doing this again now, but now the SPÖ does not agree. That can have reasons. The reasons may be that the Federal Chancellor, when he took up his office, interviewed “Frankfurter Allgemeine” in which he said: Let's make more debt! – No, we are not pursuing this very goal! Let me, because you are still going to make many decisions today, let me address my request and my appeal to you once again from the last time: In fact, when all decisions are taken today, decisions of a total value of € 580 million will be taken. You can be there for it or against it. Leave it alone. Two examples give me why I believe that the Hush-Bush-measures are! We have made the effort to look at this once, because it is not necessary to present an impact assessment for applications which are brought to Parliament and which were not in the Council of Ministers before. You could also think about that for the next period. You have an excellent budget service here in the House, which is able to shape Members' own-initiative proposals in such a way that you can actually make an impact assessment, and you should do so, just as you are right, ladies and gentlemen, to ask the Federal Government to make impact assessments when we bring government proposals to Parliament. There are two specific cases where we have looked at them more closely. It's about a lot of money and a little money. In the field of home victims, the cost is €180 000. I can tell you: It costs a lot of it! And when partner income is removed in calculating emergency aid, the cost is € 85 million. I'll tell you: It actually costs 160 million €! And if you don't believe it, please call the AMS, they've figured it out: It's 160 million €! Ladies and gentlemen, that is what must be done. You are also responsible if false figures are presented in the form of legislation! That's exactly the reason... – I didn't question that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] I have said that it is not 85 million, but it is the double of which is 160 or 165 million. Take responsibility for submitting such applications, and make the effort to present an impact assessment that is realistic! That is not what you are doing, and that is why I ask you to agree to the debt brake in the Constitution, because then it simply can no longer happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There will be the day after, and I think the debt brake would be a good gift for the future, no matter who forms a government. Maybe you're all in a government once. Some people wish for it. I don't want it with some of them. But whatever it is, you have to follow the same problem again. That's why I can only appeal to you once again: Voices To this proposal of the debt brake in the Constitution! At the time, the SPÖ carried this request, and there is no plausible argument why it should be different this time. I believe that it would be a good goal if we tried today and here to correct the damage caused by the election campaign for all politicians and the damage that it has caused democracy by making such positive decisions and sending a signal to the people in this country that we are worthy of being re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16909	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e16932	Mr President. The Federal Minister Schelling, which is all a damage or a benefit, also depends on the ideological view. That's what we're going to come to talk about. First of all, Mr Auer, who is going right now. [[Abg. Auer leaves the meeting room.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, there are likely to be some say goodbye today. I just wanted to say that despite all the differences we might have had, he was also a Pragmatist and thus a bridge builder. Such a thing is useful, and I would just like to say this at this point, and this is likely to be addressed in several appeals, namely that we should all be aware of the fact, in all our appearances – sometimes ministers also intervene a little rowily in the debate, just like now, and we should bear that too – in all the differences that all the governmental and legislative bodies and the constitutions and forms of government we have may not be the best, as Churchill said, as he said, I think, even bad – that there is not much better either. With all the commitment to more direct democracy, this will always be necessary. That is why, I believe, the work of Members who are still in a position to negotiate properly at least behind the scenes should not be underestimated. I would like this to be held here. At this minute I'd like to cut off my remaining speech. There is a proposal for a so-called constitutional debt brake. Yes, my God, but what you don't explain here is that we already have it. We weren't excited about that either. There, Union rules were implemented. This is similar, but to lift the whole thing into the constitutional rank now makes sense only if it makes sense at all. And we from the Greens doubt the meaning. Name: You can already see that you may even make surpluses in certain phases. One can also see that there are once conscious deficits. I know that this has now been addressed with the economic counter-taxes in the proposal, but there is a fundamental error in this entire debt brake philosophy, namely that one constantly pretends to be as if state spending X would be the same as state spending Y. There is indeed productive public expenditure and not productive, and that is the case with every company. That is why it makes no sense to always compare the state with private households, which are to consume as much as they spend. That's a complete holler, and I'm always wondering how such an economic dispassion can achieve such an acceptable level of distribution. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] I know that it is no good news for those who also like to have government expenditure, as you put it to us, perhaps even right at times, to distinguish between current expenditure and revenue. But one also has to recognize – and there is the ideological difference – that the generality, the public hand, the state is once again a good thing. You don't always have to hurt yourself. It must be recognized that public expenditure is not only something where the money is being crushed, but also something that is invested in, exactly where the market fails, and it often does so, and therefore it needs the public boost or even the direct public investment. This is nothing bad, but it is something that is happening, and whenever it is missing, it is an excellent and outstanding contribution to strengthening economic crises, and where this has led, we can look at the last 100 years. That is why I assume that you may well think so, but I am sure that you are beyond the goal. That's the minimum! We agree that we must keep the money together. We don't always think that we wouldn't look at what you call saving. I do not have much to do with this concept, often it is a reduction because on the revenue side you still favor the wrong ones. Now you've already done it again. This is a simple equation: Income – expenditure, then is a zero or not. You do not really explain this either, and Mr Kurz as the last. Now it's just about that we want to prove that you can save reasonablely. For example, the fight against corruption – I just grab an example – is an excellent means of doing so. What is going on in money, that is offensive and partly under the participation of government representatives who are practically providing aid for infidelity, is incredible. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You often don't do that. There are very few in this House who are concerned about this, just like Mrs Moser, on whose behalf I am entitled to make a motion for a resolution in this regard. This is a anti-corruption law: no tax money for corrupt companies! Yes, you can also organize that, which is much more concrete and failed. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be something. Reduce the payload, keep more money together! That's good, too. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That would be concrete and correct and timely, because it is already threatening one or the other. And: Stop your ideological campaigns in there!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17048	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17071	Mr President. High house! If one considers that the government debt has now increased to €292 billion, one would like to think that it is a concern of all parties to anchor a debt brake in the Constitution. After all, the debt brake was decided by law as early as 2011. Since then, the overall structural deficit may not exceed 0.45 percent, which is only 0.35 percent of the federal government. That was quite a little progress at the time. However, it should be noted that this provision was already broken or not observed in the first year of its validity, i.e. last year, because the deficit had already been exceeded in the last year, and, interestingly, this excess amount was credited to a so-called corrective account. So unfortunately no good start for this debt brake, but this procedure is unfortunately significant for the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition. In this context, it is also possible to refer to the transparency database, which was also decided in 2011 and is still not filled. Why this debt brake has not been met is obvious, it is easy to guess: because this SPÖ/ÖVP coalition broke all the laws and regulations for the protection of Austrian borders in 2015 and simply opened the borders for a wave of migration, which now costs us over €2 billion each year. So you can see what SPÖ and ÖVP keep from the law-compliant government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't know! The numbers are wrong!]] However, the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition has also done very little to finally reduce expenditure and reduce government debt. And now the Austrians have to pay with a record debt mountain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, it is very urgent to give this debt brake a little more strength. If they are taken up in the constitutional rank, it is not only more difficult to eliminate what some would like in plenary or what they would like, then infringements of the debt brakes can also be brought before the Constitutional Court. In fact, this would only be a step towards a European normality, because in Germany or Switzerland, the debt brake in the constitutional rank has long been a reality. How difficult it is to guess, the budgets in Germany and Switzerland also look very different. They write surpluses. If one now considers that such a decision should actually be a formality, it is surprising that here in Parliament there is a party that does not want partout to the debt brake to be lifted in the constitutional rank – a party that obviously is the blame of the genes, and that is the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ just doesn't want and wants to let go of the debt. Make debt and introduce new taxes, that's the SPÖ's credo! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Make debt and introduce new taxes, pay off the middle class, introduce an asset tax and an inheritance tax – the SPÖ feels comfortable! And if that's still not enough, she'll make new debts. That's how the SPÖ wants it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There is, of course, a debt brake in the constitutional order particularly disturbing. But then it would really be honest that you say to your voters: We don't want a debt brake, either by law or by constitution! The question is: Who's to pay for this? How does the budget look when interest begins to rise from the current record depth? [[Abg. Krainer: A hypo brake would have been good!]] What will our children say about this bitter heritage? – Wurst, says the SPÖ, we make even more debts! This behavior of the SPÖ somehow reminds of an alcoholic who needs more and more schnapps to satisfy his addiction. [[Abg. Krainer: A Dobernig brake would have been good! A Hider-Bremse!]] So: A new national debt record, which may be the future vision of the SPÖ. It's not ours! We liberals say: Finally down with the debt, finally a balanced budget! And that's why the debt brake has to be in the constitutional rank.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17171	For the sake of order, I note that Mr Kogler's motion for a resolution, which he has just tabled, has been properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17295	Mr Mag. Rossmann is the next one to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17326	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Yes, we have already decided on a debt brake, which has been valid since 2011. I was always against a debt brake. I am also opposed to a debt brake in the constitutional rank because I do not see the advantage of a debt brake in the constitutional rank. Who would have prevented this House from complying with this debt brake contained in § 2 of the Federal Budget Act? - No one! And why is it suddenly to be observed if Is the whole constitutional rank being lifted? Minister! Why should there no longer be any false proposals when we have a debt brake in the constitutional rank? I got so many false templates from your house with so many false estimates, so I could fill books. Why this should change suddenly, you have to explain that to me! Mr Stephan Schulmeister has weathered something very useful in connection with the debt brake today. In fact, he meant: “ Whether a fever knife with a temperature brake heals the disease, a biterl seems doubtful.” And that's exactly the point. [[Federal Minister Schelling: This is your friend!]] - No! I am there with Stephan Schulmeister and many economists in very, very good society. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not everything that limps is a comparison!]] In fact, when the debt brake was introduced in Germany in 2009, Mr. colleague, there were 200 economists who explained that this was nonsense. And it's a nonsense, and there are many good reasons for this: It enshrines the scope of budgetary policy in economic downturns, even if one makes derogations. It also incorporates the process of fiscal policy politicization. There is, as it were, less room for negotiation to actually direct expenditure where it is intended. Mr Kogler has already pointed this out. There are more productive expenditure and less productive expenditure. If only the stabilisation of debt is in the foreground, and nothing else, then one simply does not give up on the design of budgetary policy, but budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, is the most powerful tool available to this House. That is why I would like to invite everyone here, from all political groups, to reject this request. Mr Finanzminister, because you have said that this is not a Husch-Fusch law, I say to you: This presentation is the biggest craftsman's brush in budgetary matters I've ever seen! If it is claimed here that this is the implementation of the German debt brake, then it is an error. It is also not the proposal that was decided on in 2011 that it is not geared to the structural deficit, but to the administrative deficit. And from 2022 it will be put on zero – in all future. But with this you open a door towards an intervention vulnerability as we had before when we did not have the structural deficit. So we're making it through privatisation, one-off revenue and so on, and suddenly we have a zero deficit in administrative account, although we really don't have it in the Maastricht account. In this new Article 13a, how do you establish the link between the administrative deficit on the one hand and the Union rules, which are still in place, on the other hand? You can't give up on those, Minister. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Don't give up on the decisions!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – And even if there are difficulties calculating the structural deficit, you will not solve it from doing so. [[Abg. Krainer: Husch-Fuch without review!]] But I can only warn against raising a structural deficit in the constitutional rank, because there are very many methodological problems in the calculation. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] They know that the structural deficit is constantly being corrected ex post. And this is what we want to put into the responsibility of judges who have to decide whether a budget has been made lawfully in the sense of the debt brake or not. – Please leave You don't like that! And something else: They say, if there are economic variations, then, as it were, a scheme should be possible, but at the same time, a plan should be submitted symmetrically. – Yes, economic cycles are not symmetrical. This is perhaps still to be read in textbooks today, but nowhere else. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I really can only warn you about that. Therefore: Let's not do this, let's have a discussion about whether this makes sense or not, let's advise experts – but let's not do this pussy, please, let's not decide here today! [[Abg. Rädler: Who is “we ”?]] And I would like to thank all the Members who do not agree with this disapproval today and here.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17440	Mr. Dr. Scherak is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17461	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Sozialminister! Of course, it needs a debt brake in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister Schelling, you have spoken of responsibility for Austria, just like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I can remind you of something: It's Your party, which has been sitting in the Federal Government for 31 years and which is this debt mountain... – Yes, I can tell you again, because you obviously forget it all the time: [[Federal Minister Schelling: You have said that before!]] It is your party that is indebted accordingly to this debt mountain, to these €290 billion. They were always there when it came to debt making – and it's still you. Mr Kogler mentioned that there was a fundamental error in the debt brake. I believe that there is a fundamental mistake here, both the Greens and the SPÖ. You have to invest in difficult times, we all agree. The problem is just: We have been investing continuously for 55 years, we make new debts every year. And it's not about the crisis, it's about constantly making debts for 55 years, at the expense of the next generation. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] Mr Krainer, I am not trying to convince the SPÖ because you do not care about the next generations. So let's get rid of this. [[Abg. Krainer: No, it's 51 years!]] But I think you have to keep the ÖVP in the mirror. Mr Auer said: When you moved into Parliament at the time – I said it today; a few years before I was born – we already had a debt of €40 billion. I've been looking at it again: In 1990, when Mrs Fekter moved into Parliament, we had a debt of €76 billion in Austria. When Mr Haubner moved in in 2001, it was € 145 billion. As colleague Wöginger, who has also called for responsibility for Austria, has moved into Parliament here in 2002, it was €150 billion. Mr Lopatka came to Parliament after Mr Wöginger, 2003, at that time it was €151 billion. And when Sebastian Kurz State Secretary became, 2011, it was €220 billion. [[Abg. Rädler: What do you tell us?]] What I say to you, Mr Rädler: Today, debt is €290 billion, and Mr Auer has obviously needed €250 billion to ensure that the ÖVP should finally stop making new debts after 31 years. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course we need this debt brake! The only thing where I'm with my colleague Rossmann is: We would not need them if the EIA had not been involved in debt for the last 31 years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I'm clear that the SPÖ wants to make the debt, but you shouldn't have participated in the ÖVP. And you're gonna do it again: They decide today to increase the pension over the inflation rate. They have decided to abolish the care rule without counter-financing. I remind you: August Wöginger then explained to us that we are giving a photo of the e-card on it and thus financing the abolition of the care rule. It's hardly going to go out. I have already mentioned the pensioner today; the colleague Rädler was there at the time: 100 € for every pensioner, regardless of how high the pension is. This is irrational policy at the expense of the next generations, and this non-responsible policy has two names: This is the SPÖ and that has been the ÖVP for 31 years! Yes, we need a debt brake! We would not need them if you had not been constantly making new debts for 31 years and would finally look at the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17563	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Parliament 2323/A. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues included draft law, title and receipt. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act and to a Federal Constitutional Act, I am initially putting it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is not the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on no tax money for corrupt companies. Who agrees to this request? [[Abg. Arbitrators: But now count correctly, please! Not like before!]] - Well, I'll let you count out and ask the scribes to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] May I ask the staff behind to sit down?- Oh, my God! - All right, that's it! Now, let's check it out. [[Mr Buchmayr, Mr Gahr, Mr Lueger and Mr Zanger went to the Bureau and supported President Head in the poll.]] The application did not obtain the necessary majority and was therefore rejected. [[Abg. Arbitrators: May we know the numbers?]] – 71 to 81. 4. [[18:36:29]] Point Government Template: Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Pension Act 1965, the Federal Theatre Pensions Act, the Federal Railway Pension Act and the Relevant Law (Pension Adjustment Act 2018 – PAG 2018) (1767 d.B.) 5. Question by Mr Josef Muchich, Mr August Wöginger, Mr President, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wögner, Mr Wögner, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wögner, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wögner, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöggen, Mr Wöginger, Mr W.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17654	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. With regard to these negotiating items, a period of up to 11 years has been set for the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. No oral reporting is required. First word message: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17684	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The law is supposed to regulate the increase in pensions. Actually, come out loud. ASVG 1.6 percent out – yes, that's not much. Under the pretext of wanting to increase small pensions, there is now a gift of choice: 2.20 percent instead of 1.6%. For those who benefit from compensation allowances, for the so-called minimum pensioners, the gross additional means 5,33 €, and this obviously has nothing to do with poverty reduction – rather by distributing a gift shortly before the election, and the members of small pensioners must happily appreciate that the question of raising falls into a pre-election period, because it comes out a little more. This has nothing to do with poverty reduction, because the new pensions are falling. The Federal Minister mentioned it in his social report: From 2014 to 2015, the average new pension fell by 5 percent. You can also read on the homepage of the Social Ministry that the replacement rates are going back, so: How much percent of my employment income do I have as a pension? They will go back by 2060 by a quarter. The young people can imagine this in a valuable way: A quarter less was said, the average pension, which today amounts to €1,200, would then be €900. That's what we're heading for, under the Minister who says the pensions are safe. So people's eyes are running into the poverty trap, a pension reform is not a topic. Sebastian Kurzauch says this for the future legislative period: A pension reform is not a topic! So that's where you know what you're talking about at the ÖVP. So now the pensioners get a vote alms of 5.30 €. This alms costs far more than €100 million, which you press the young people on the debt mountain on it. The Republic of Austria issue hundreds of years of government bonds. That means we're now taking up debts we're paying back in a hundred years. This has to pay back our grandsons and great-grandparents who will see nothing more of what we are now blowing out of debt. And other gifts are already decided: Employment bonus, action 20 000, care rules abolished, emergency aid is being made more generous; we have no problem with long-term unemployment anyway. The money of the grandsons and great-grandparents is thrown out to the window, because your political horizon is up to 15. October is enough and not another day. We think 30, 40, 50 years ahead. We want single social systems, and that is not the case with such decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17732	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17764	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Loacker, you say you think 30, 40 years ahead. We Social Democrats have been making pensions in this country for 72 years, and it has been said 30, 40, 50 years ago that the pensions are not manageable; they have been scared. There have now been times when pensions have not even been increased by the inflation rate, which was from 2000 to 2006. [[Abg. Belakovich: 2011, 2012!]] The fact is, we now have a government template, Mrs. Colleague, which will increase pensions more in 2018 than it sets out the statutory requirements in the ASVG, and that is also good. It is a good thing that, in agreement with the senior pension organisations, the lower pensioners, i.e. the lower pensioners, receive more of a percentage increase. The result or proposal is known to you: At 1 500 € per month, the increase is 2.2 per cent, over 1 500 € to 2 000 € per month we increase by 33 € and from 2 000 € to 3 355 € per month the plus is 1.6 per cent. In addition, linearly it is reduced from 1.6 to 0 percent. You hear again and again – this is a permanent topic in Austria – the pension system is not manageable. Three facts why it's liquefying. First: The retirement age is rising. - You know that. Secondly, 96 percent of the pension costs, the real pension costs of the self-employed, are paid by workers and employees themselves, which is covered by their own contributions. Thirdly, The system can be financed in the long term and is also manageable, as the report of the Ministry of Finance after Brussels, the Ageing Report, clearly states by 2060. People in Austria can rely on the funding of pensions, simply because we do not want to shorten pensions, as other parties plan it, because we want to continue to treat and regulate heavy work and disability separately in the interests of those concerned in the future and because in future we want to guarantee a strong state pension column to all people who have paid pension contributions and paid taxes in that country for decades. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which parties are planning? Which parties are these?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly, and with the cold progression you take it away from them!]] I always hear these comparisons with Germany and Switzerland, where it always means: Let's look over the border! – I like to look across the border: In Germany, the state pension is 40 percent lower than in Austria, since we can be really proud of our Austrian pension system, and also compared to the Swiss model where there is only an increase every two years on the basis of the inflation rate. [[Abg. Schwentner: That's it!]] What I would like to conclude with all of you, these are facts and no other stories. [[A table on the speaker’s desk, on which several column diagrams are shown under the heading ‘Pension reductions under black and blue’, which compare pension adjustment and inflation rates between 2000 and 2005]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Taferl, finally!]] You know, under black and blue, there has been this pension robbery, you know, under black and blue the pensions have not even been raised according to the inflation rate, and this makes us quite simply different. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is 2011 to 2012?]] Then, of course, I have also mentioned the pension adjustments from 2012 to 2018 – the last seven years – and there you can see who can rely on. [[A second table on the speaker’s desk, which shows several column diagrams under the heading ‘Pension Increases among SPÖ Chancellors’, which compare pension adjustment and inflation rate between 2012 and 2018.]] I think the people in this country can... – It would have been too long, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is 2011?]] [[Abg. Lausch: Your speech is too long!]] Where are we supposed to go? [[Abg. Stefan: Getting caught!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I'll let you remember that. [[Put the first panel on the speaker's desk again]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Taferln wie Houdini!]] Look, we don't want what happened at the pensions from 2000 to 2006 to happen again. This three-pillar model of bowls and sharks, which might now take over short and tight, namely longer work, more numbers and less get out, does not correspond to our philosophy of pensions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: There's nothing short about it, he'll do it for a long time! He's been party- watchman for 12 years!]] People can rely on the SPÖ at pensions, and they know that too. I'm looking for all the viewers in front of the TV screens: Please think about which party you are on Sunday, 15th. October, your vote, which party you trust to secure the pensions accordingly! Give the SPÖ and Christian Kern your voice! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17957	Mr deputies, I would like to ask you Are you not submitting another motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e17973	Excuse me, Mr President, of course I am tabling a motion for a resolution. It's not just about securing, it's also about the future. [[Abg. Kassinger: There we still need to pick up! There's still air up there!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite you, all political groups, all mandates, to accept our motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18041	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18146	Next word: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18164	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, 240 children are born every day, who have no voting right for the next 16 years, i.e. we must also make politics and take responsibility for their future, in the sense of it and for it, as long as they do not yet have the right to vote. I think it is our duty, as politicians in general, to make policy also for those who come after us. We also had the topic of climate protection today: I think sustainability is also an important generation theme, a topic of generation-righteousness, because if you don't do anything about it, you take something from our beautiful country that you can never experience. I also see sustainability and generation-righteousness as very important in the issue of debt and pensions. Especially on the subject, as mentioned earlier, we take the next generations with the federal contribution, which becomes more and more each year, including their room for democracy policy, to decide on their own budget. This is just a big batch of money in the budget for something these young people have never caused, in which they could never say how their budget is used pre-planned. But that's something we have to answer now. That's what ÖVP and SPÖ are doing now: They are fighting on the back of the voteless, who are not yet born, the symptoms of a system that is no longer eligible for funding and in the way we now live it is no longer sustainable, because for them the interests of those who are right to vote and are entitled to vote are currently more acute than the interests of those who come after us. I think Mr Muchich said this quite well anyway, he said: The increase is more than is regulated in the law, and that is also good. – So do we say that the legal regulation is simply unusable? Or how do you want to explain that it is coincidence that it was just 2018 so acutely important that the increase must be higher than in the years before? Is the law bad? Is 2018 so special or is it just about the people who want to convince you to choose SPÖ and ÖVP? [[Abg. Steinhauser: Yes, sure, it's special! It's election year!]] There's an election gift and not anymore! It is carried out on the back of those who can no longer choose later on, who cannot agree on how the money – which they later no longer have – is now spent. As we had the subject of debt policy earlier: It has also been mentioned that this is perhaps a symptom fight, but it was relatively commonplace, it is obviously a disease in the system that we make debts without paying attention to what happens in the future and who comes after us. If the ÖVP is currently talking about the importance of doing the right thing in the election campaign, I wonder why the mumm and the courage are missing to really express what this pension system is about and what to do. This is a urgency that is otherwise found in hardly any other policy area, and I think it is a naughtiness, then to have an election campaign, in which it is not spoken of as doing something that could be qualified as the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18201	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18222	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am also submitting to the Government Template Pension Adjustment Act 2018 an amendment by Members Muchitsch, Wöginger, colleagues and colleagues. He's distributed, so he'll be there. It is also important that special pensions are included in the calculation. To the government template itself: Of the NEOS, it's a strange way to go, it's got to be reformed, and it doesn't fit at all. [[Abg. Scherak: You used to say that!]] Mr Muchich pointed out, of course, that our pension system is a good one. To the Taferln, Mr Muchich, I must say to you: The SPÖ Social Ministers over the past ten years have benefited from the fact that in 2003 there was a reform that brought sustainability into the system, namely with the pension account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] At that time, we also had a proper assessment of the child rearing times for the first time. We still lack a piece of the way, but that was a major part of this reform. At that time, we simply built on a longer calculation, which has brought about changes. [[Abg. Musical: Less!]] One thing has to be said, the system has sustainability and it also ensures funding. Since subsidies are always mentioned here: Wolfgang Schüssel then said that if we stay in about 3 percent of GDP – that is now about €10 billion we have that the state is shooting at the ASVG-pension system – then the system does not run out of the row. Only: If we had not made these reforms, we would now be at least 5 per cent of GDP grant, and then the system would have been on the wall, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this reform was correct, important and necessary, and today we have a system that I am saying is right at this time, but we have to keep in mind. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to bring an example from my family – because it has been said that minimum pensioners are only 20 €, or 5 €, as Mr Loacker said: My parents refer the family law to the compensation allowance. My father worked 44 years, and he was a shift worker in Germany for 22 years. He gets 500 € for these 22 years, so that's not intoxicating. That's what I'm right about those who criticize it. And he has 22 relatively poor calculation years in Austria because he was an individual entrepreneur for 20 years. He served a passenger ride on the Danube, had a low basis of assessment, and he also received 500 €. My mother has cared for about 14 years and raised my sister and me, but she doesn't bring the years together, so to speak, because she is the year 1952. Now you go here and say that that's nothing worth doing if you give 29 € to these pensioners who have worked hard in the family area. Can I tell you something? – For my parents, these €29 are worth a lot, Mr. Loacker. You should remember that, too, and you shouldn't just go here all the time, and take those amounts off. For those people who have to get out with little money, even though they have worked hard, 29 € plus a month of money. With us in the Inn district, this is still worth it, and that is what you have to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, I think this seasoning is good. We also work once again with base amounts. I've negotiated collective agreements for a few years, I'm even a friend of base amounts, also of mixing systems, so that you make a part percentage and a part with base amounts, because it's just more just. Especially in the middle, from the heights, there are base amounts in order, and we therefore welcome this and of course agree with the government template. Finally, I say a sentence on the future of the pension system: I think it's good at the moment, but we have to keep an eye on sustainability. It is also not missing to support the second pillar, as far as occupational pensions et cetera are concerned. There's nothing bad about it. One thing I would like to say, however, is that justice is truly being brought into all the federal states, because we still have a federal country that has not accepted the federal government regulations in public service, that is the city of Vienna. Actually, the whole Republic does not understand why there are transitional periods up to 2042. If we are elected on Sunday, we will do everything we can to eliminate this circumstance.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18293	The amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger is sufficiently supported, he has explained to him in his key points, he has been distributed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18482	Next word: Mrs Dr. Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18505	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about a pension increase that represents 2.2 percent for low pensions this year. I am now right to the colleague of the NEOS, which is of course because of the election year. We know that this is the way it is; and I am happy for the pensioners, especially for those with small pensions, that it is the election year so that they can get an increase. One of my colleagues has forgotten about his taferls, or has just shown a lot of confusion, and it must not be forgotten that the pensioners have contributed a lot to the savings package in recent years. In 2013 the increase was 1 percentage point below the inflation rate, saying there was a real loss of value. In 2014, it was still 0.8 percentage points below the inflation rate, i.e. in recent years the pensioners have had a real loss of value of their pensions of more than 10 percent, and this is also a little bit to compensate for and make up for. I am not here now, and I welcome this pension reform. I would say that the glass is half empty with this pension reform. It is a good step, an important step, but it is not what we would like. For years, we have been demanding that the pensioner price index be used. Unfortunately, it has not been raised by Statistics Austria at all since 2016. Mr Pesendorfer of Statistics Austria has said that there is no longer any mandate from the Council of Senior Citizens. One of the top representatives of the Senior Council is Karl Blecha – one of the most luxurious pensioners, you have to say that – it is obviously not important enough that you finally look at the pensioner price index every year. That would be something we would have imagined for an ordinary pension, or would be in line with our demand for a minimum pension of €1,200. It should not be forgotten that there is nothing gifted, Mr Loacker and colleagues from NEOS; these are people who have worked in this country. This is an insurance scheme they have developed. And with all appreciation, as you say, we'll have something to say to the next generation: But we owe something to the previous generation. We should never overlook this in all these debates. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Aubauer and Mr Haubner.]] That is why I think it is really necessary to give pensioners, especially the pensioners of small pensions, a worthy increase; and this is not just about combating poverty – because you have now made fun of the fact that compensation providers get just over €5. This is not the classic fight against poverty, but it is a compensation for the inflation rate in recent years, and I believe that our pensioners have also deserved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18552	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18573	I wanted to join my colleague Gamon: I am always in agreement with NEOS in many things, especially in terms of education. As far as the pension is concerned, I really have to object and say something: You always talk about everything being broken, we don't give young people a future, and young generations won't have a pension. [[Abg. Lausch: Everything is going to Brussels!]] I really can't understand why NEOS operates such a panic. It is now true that now very big-born years go into retirement, and I am convinced that it is our responsibility that these so-called baby boomers, who go into retirement, also have a right to a safe pension. I do not want to take this right from them, and I will not explain to them that they will have nothing, and that they – I do not know – should go to the basement or where else. I will not explain to them that they will have to be afraid, but I would like to take part in solutions, to find solutions that all who are now on retirement will also receive a safe pension for the many people who depend on it. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens, as well as Mr Kucharovich and Mr Gisela Wurm.]] It really troubles me that, on the one hand, there is uncertainty and, on the other hand, no acceptable or reasonable proposal comes from NEOS, except that people should go to the casino in the future in order to pick up almost by making private insurance. [[Abg. Loacker: An insurance isn't a casino!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: A private pension insurance already!]] - Yes, that's socks on the financial market. We saw, by 2008 at the latest, how this works out, namely that many people are losing money and not getting a safe pension for it. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I support the increase in middle and low pensions in particular, but I would point out, Mr Minister and in the direction of Mr Muchich, that our current pension system does not protect against poverty in old age. We need to look much more closely in the future and work on a pension model for all, on a model with the same contributions and the same benefits so that people of old age are protected from poverty. We know that every fifth single woman is at risk of poverty, that is, she cannot participate in social life. Our present system will not protect them – that will be our task. We Greens have put forward a proposal, namely a basic pension at age for all with a corresponding basic guarantee and based on it an employment pension. We have made a proposal as the only one, and I hope that we will discuss it more intensively in the next few years, so that we can protect people from poverty in old age.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18645	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18667	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today has taken a long time, especially here in Parliament, but it has started well. He has started by giving you the right of the Constitutional Court by not allowing the Bank Austria to take responsibility with 7 percent and leave the responsibility for the payment of pensions of the insured community. [[Abg. Loacker: That wouldn't have happened at all!]] They have jointly made sure, even on my proposal, that there is justice in this matter. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Auer and Mr Haubner.]] Yes, to do that, it's important. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You've been given the right thing, and I think that's very good. This is an important thing, therefore, because it shows people in Austria that they can trust that they have protection that they are not dependent on whether or not a bank wants or does not want money from the financial market. Mrs Gamon, I invite you to my office, where I have an original article from a 1958 newspaper – at the time I was not in the world – when the ASVG was in force for a year. At that time the journalists said exactly the same thing: It's not going to work, it can't go out and it won't go out! We have proven for 60 years and a few months that we can give people in Austria the security that pensions are paid out on time in all areas; and we have extended payments to those groups that have needed special protection. I am grateful to Mrs Schwentner for saying that we still have to look closely because there are individual groups of people who do not have easy access to it. That is true, we have also added some groups of people over time. In the work process, something has changed, so we will have to do so in the future, but the Austrian pension system is the pension system, which is Europe-wide and, as I say, is the best pension system in the world, which gives people security not to suffer poverty in old age. That's important to me, and we did it. We're also sending a signal today. We send a signal by raising the lower pensions by 2.2 per cent, because we say butter and bread have become more expensive for all, and this buys pensioners who have little, more often. That is why we want to increase pensions in this area. This is the proposal that has been tabled here, and I would like to thank you if you give your consent to it. We have also sent a signal that pensions above €5,000 will not be increased. I would like to thank all those who are affected by the fact that they are setting a sign of solidarity for those people in Austria who have worked here for a long time and have a low pension. I would also like to say thank you, even though I am a little careful in the election campaign, because you promise everything, but then there are certain cut-out fantasies in the room. I say to the people consciously: If you say publicly, you want to save €13 billion annually, I would warn you very much, because anyone will have to pay for it. And if you look at the history of Austria, especially when you look at the history of the social state, you know, it was always the poorest in society that paid for it; first the women, then the men and always those who worked for a lifetime. So be careful who you give your voice on Sunday, think about what's behind it. There must be no savings in the social system, no savings in the health sector, and there must be no savings on pensioners in particular. With today's proposal we have a real sign; we have also increased by 2.2% what is equally important to me, including the pensions for victims, namely for victims of war, who have special situations. Thank you, if you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18719	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18741	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased if we can make this legislative decision today, because then in the future a few million people will have more money in the pocket of money, especially those who have more in the pocket of money, which is not so good. I am very pleased that there is a social staggering, and that those who are already very well served, even in old age, who have to make the solidarity contribution and then receive the pensioners with lower incomes more, I am glad again. Women can also rely on us when it comes to increasing the retirement age. We have always fought for it and are committed to ensuring that the age of women's retirement is not increased. That's good, that's important, and that's right. It has also been asked why women's pensions are partly so low. Of course, this is related to the wages, of course this is also related to the pension reform in 2003, with which the calculation period has been extended. This has hurt women above all because women cannot reach the corresponding calculation period, because it is simply and often impossible to reconcile work and family in the time when they can collect years of contributions. - That's one. Since this is my last speech here in the House, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have put the concerns of women as a special task. I would like to thank the women's speakers; we have managed a great deal at this time to get together. I particularly appreciate the anti-violence law. 20 years of anti-violence law in Austria – a real success story, which is always used as a special example, also internationally. We have achieved many improvements here in the house. How can a life be designed if not free from violence! – This was a very important legislative decision, very important for half the population in our country! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say goodbye to you and to tell you one thing: Don't forget the women's business!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18784	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your dedicated work here in the House and wish you all the best and all the best for your personal future! – Thank you very much. Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Aubauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18808	Mr President. Dear colleague Worm, I personally have the best wishes for you! It was nice to work with you. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the election extra in the “Kronen Zeitung” I was particularly surprised by an interview. Eleven-year-old Nicolai wants to know about candidates Strolz: Will I get a pension when I'm older? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not from Strolz!]] So an Eleven-year-old has the concern that he doesn't get a pension once. [[Abg. Wenninger: Why does he ask the matter? Incorrect address!]] The safety of pensions is obviously a topic for the young and for the elderly. How safe are our pensions? – Security is all the bigger, the more active people are. Why do I say that? – Because I am very sorry that the Wiener Krankenorganisationenverband apparently wants to send twenty employees for organizational reasons, as it is said, in early retirement. This is a devastating signal for those concerned because they feel they are no longer needed, and also a devastating signal for the pension system. We need people who pay, more people who pay, and no less. Safe pensions, that means: How worthy are the pensions? Can they pay off the annual price? . It is very welcome for us that more than 1.7 million pensions are raised above the inflation rate, which is 2.2 percent and that, also very important, victim pensions should be adjusted above the inflation rate, i.e. 2.2 percent plus for the victim's pensions. The fact that pensions do not lose value is a fundamental, important concern for us. We want value-added pensions, which are calculated on the basis of what has been paid in contributions. This is currently not the case with some, but should be a principle for the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are also concerned with the fundamental question in which society we want to live. A society is measured by how it deals with its older fellow citizens, and we want to live in a society where people can rely on safe pensions. We want to live in a society in which the weak will be helped if they need it. That's what we're standing for! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18867	Mr Köchl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18889	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! A strong social state is equally important to us. The reputation for the slender state is more important to us for foreheads. We want a state capable of action and not a slender, but incompetent, state. So we want to have action and not inability to act. [[Abg. Hauser:... a state that has money!]] - Yes, a state that has money. The current debate on the Pension Adjustment Act gives me the opportunity to intervene in the Commercial Social Security Act, and since we have drawn up 48 concrete reliefs in the field of self-employed, that I can bring in two topics by amendment, which I hope will be decided today in a constructive majority. It is a last-minute action, and I insist that constructive forces are at work here and find themselves a majority. One point concerns the sickness allowance for self-employed persons. We know that the situation has significantly worsened voluntary health insurance at the beginning of the year, in the worst case there are two thirds less benefits for the same payment. To this end, I have a proposal that 80 percent should be committed in order to improve. The second criticism is that in the case of occupational social security, there is now the possibility of paying only an accident insurance in the event of minor activity. In other words, at €5100 annual profit, accident insurance, €112 in concrete terms, no health insurance contributions, no pension insurance contributions; as far as this small business scheme is concerned. However, if the annual profit is a few euros higher, you pay the minimum contribution and immediately comes to over €2,000 a year. This is basically not so wrong yet, but you never get away from it again. If small entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs of 60 months of age, are twelve months of occupational social insurance, then they are practically caught in the system and have no more chance to opt back, and then, even if they may only make something by the way with 1 000, 2 000 € annual profit, 2 570 € minimum contribution. It just doesn't work out. That's why it makes sense to create the opportunity to change flexibly, from year to year, depending on how profits and revenues look like. That is why I make the following request to the Government template in 1767 of the Supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are two major steps which can be formulated in a few words by means of amendment. The vote will be taken separately – I insist that the green measure, which will facilitate some sort of action, will also be approved by you. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e18959	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19035	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19056	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a speaker for individuals and for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is simply a special need to help these people, and the most important thing in this context is social security. Illness, temporary illness must not be a threat to existence, and many other injustices should also be eliminated. I therefore propose two amendments today; I ask you to be patient, they are somewhat comprehensive. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second amendment is as follows: Amendment Member of the Muchitsch, Spindelberger, colleagues on the Government Template 1767 of the Supplements to a Pension Adjustment Act 2018 The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The draft law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: Art. 2 (amendment of the Commercial Social Insurance Act) is amended as follows: (a) The order shall be referred to as ‘2’. (b) The Z 2 is preceded by the following Z 1: ‘1. In § 104a para. 1 first sentence is expressed as,43. Date of incapacity for work’ of the term ‘resulting from 4. Date of incapacity for work’ inserted.’ (c) After Z 2, the following Z 3 is added: ‘3. The following section 370 and heading are added after § 369: ,Flucture provisions on Art. 2 of the Federal Law of the Federal Republic of Germany. I No. xxx/2017 § 370. (l) § 104a para. 1 first sentence in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/2017 enters 1. ==References====External links== June 2022 out of force. (2) § 104a para. 1 in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xx/2017 is to be applied to those insured whose incapacity to work as a result of illness after 30. ==References== (3) § 104a as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. xxx/2017 as well as § 104b are at 30. In June 2021, the main association evaluated and discussed the financial consequences of the incapacity for work and the impact on Austria's economic location. In this case, it should be noted To this end, the insurance institution and the general accident insurance institution shall provide the main association with all necessary documents electronically and, where necessary, provide an insight into the records. (4) Issues the evaluation according to para. 3, that support for long-term illness has a positive impact on the economic development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Federal Minister for Health and Women can, by means of a regulation, have the extra-power step of § 104a para. 1 in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/2017.’ I hope that all political groups will have broad agreement, because ultimately these packages are for the social protection of entrepreneurs in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19204	Both amendments are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19372	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19393	Ladies and gentlemen! I also talk about pensions, but first and foremost to my own pension, and I say right at the beginning: [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] It is an ASVG-pension, just to avoid misunderstanding. But maybe before the entrance to the actual pension or farewell speech: Mr President, how does it look? Is there a bonus minute in here every year?
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19417	Just a gray hair, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19444	Okay! – What I might want to say at the outset or on the subject is: I am very sorry that, although it was promised, there is no regulation that there should be further reductions in special pensions. That was announced to us, and I would have expected an appropriate draft. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] I also have on that subject at the special pensions, which I and probably some of you – not all! – is at the heart of something prepared, namely the retiring pensions for politicians who are still in the old system. However, there is no way to debate it or vote on it, because it does not fit on the subject. - That's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Second: I always let it go together when certain politicians get out of here and say: We want to secure pensions for the future!, and then they don't say the second half, although it would be necessary for them to tell him – I don't share this opinion, but that's what they actually represent –: By shortening future pensions. – I think it is a huge problem that you - or parts of you - are not honestly talking about the pension system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen, the highly praised – that is, ÖVP and FPÖ; perhaps less praised by FPÖ – pension reform of 2003/2004 brings cuts for future pensions, namely for those who retire in ten, 20 years, in the amount of 30 percent – now. Now, that's fix! So when you go here and say, We need a further pension reform in order to secure these future pensions!, then one means that one needs to cut in again, because no one will assume that the existing pensions can, so to speak, be cut into or reduced. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge problem, and that is also the subject. We cannot afford to reduce the pensions for those who retire in 20 or 30 years. They're short already! - So, and now on the real topic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's right!]] Of course, I asked myself – I did not prepare my speech as well as my colleague Auer; thank you for this also beautiful farewell speech –: What else can I tell you? Can I tell you something? – I have to say honestly, I have doubts as to whether I can say something to you, because it also depends on the fact that, after I have had cancer in 2014 and received a diagnosis that some of the others have received from you here before, of course, life and the relationships that are important in life change. And then comes this very unexpected or unexpected opportunity to return to the National Council once more and to repeat what I somehow, when I was expelled in 2013, have, yes, accused myself of not giving a farewell speech. I have this opportunity now. But I asked myself: Do I have anything to say to you? – I have all the requests: How are you now, at the political level, inside in Parliament?, always answered: I am a bit strange – strange in the sense that certain customs have become foreign to me – the term “game rules” has already been heard more often today. For this, the distance you have, once you are outside and then return, is also good: that you develop a different perspective on things. And so it happened to me: Certain routines that are inside here, which were of course for me before, have become strange to me. – I bring you examples. I am an enthusiastic parliamentarian and I was an enthusiastic social politician. But if a Committee meets only three, four, sometimes five times a year, if it is limited to three, four, five hours, but if the agenda contains 30 or 40 requests, two or three reports, which should then be dealt with in just these three or four or five hours, then something is wrong, then we have not taken the time needed to deal with these requests or reports. If, for example, a report such as the Social Report is discussed in the Committee, it takes three or four hours for it to be properly discussed, and we do not take that time. I think that's grossly negligent. I can only tell you – I will repeat this appeal too – if you do not change this in the future and do not actually give parliamentarianism a chance that it does not have at present, then parliamentarianism has been playful, then the question of how this Parliament can work will be solved quite differently – and not in the good sense. Second example: What does that lead to? . I told you I was working in the Committee. We have numbered novels since the beginning of the ASVG 88. Do you know how many unnumbered novels there are? - Almost 300! I've counted her once: 300 unnumbered novels. This year alone, in 2017, there are, I believe, 17 – today we decide on further ASVG novels. This is a huge problem for anyone who needs to read this law that must apply it. Finally, those who are subject to the law should be able to somehow understand the law. This does not work – and the ASVG is perhaps a special example, but it is one of our most important social laws. [[General condolences.]] Third example: control rights. – This too is a really essential matter, whether you are in an opposition party or in a government party. Over the years, I have always asked all ministries questions: How big are the cabins, how high are the costs for the cabin, who is in the cabins? – When I came back, I tried to do so, too, with regard to this series of questions – because I had a few years in between, and the cabinet sizes and how they were handled – it was always very useful; it was also the subject of a public debate or of Court of Auditors reports – to re-acquire it. I asked all the ministries and I was very pleased when Minister Rupprechter gave an answer after a month. But when I saw the answer, well, I looked. There was nothing inside, which somehow would have answered a question from me. I then wrote a letter to President Bures, explained the problem to her, and she said she was going to write it to the Minister. – At first I was calmed down and, of course, repeated the question to the Minister. Then, after another month – two months, you know the story – the other answers came. With the exception of Minister Mahrer's reply – honor, to whom honour is due – they have all been exactly the same, almost verbatim, namely translated: Dear Karl Oellinger, you can go brewing, we don't answer that. – There was no answer. There were references to other questions, mostly those of Mr Scherak, who asked something quite different. He asked for a certain deadline for monthly expenses – no matter what, I don't want to tell you in detail. I was horrified at these answers from the ministries and I thought I was so easy not to give up, I also ask you questions again. – I did that, and now, this week, the answers have come: We see no reason at all to change anything, it was all okay and exact. – Nothing was exact, absolute refusal of reply! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] And now I'm at the point: Yes, okay, I leave – some of you can take on this task – but if there are no these Parliament's control rights from your side, if you do not perceive this and if you do not move it forward, then there is an essential point why there is at all a Parliament and constitutionally guaranteed rights of Members. Now I don't want to end up like the characters in the Muppet show, like Statler and – what's the second name? [[Calls:Waldorf]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Walser!]] – Waldorf, yes, exactly, and always in between – in addition, I am missing the second, so I can only give one – but this is just a crucial point. Now I would have done something else, namely to go to a delicate point, I am already aware of that. I'll cut it off. – I’m probably not going to thank the liberals for being among the unpaid cleaning forces of the FPÖ, because what I’ve done for years has been to draw your attention to what people are in your ranks, where you need to change or improve in your policy, so that we can have a normal dialogue. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I'm still there!]] I can tell you one thing: With normal conservatives or rights – with normal! – you can talk. You can even benefit from talking to them, you can learn from them yourself, but I have to go there, as now in this troubled debate, which we have had in the last few weeks about silver stone and the soros quote in this Facebook group, for example, that the FPÖ and its top politicians, for example, have been camping to Soros for years and days, namely against Soros, that they call him a war heatter, that they call him a dubious figure, that on the pages of Strache and Gudenus, mainly where these postings take place, dozens of entries have been posted by those that there are really anti-Semitic responses above and are not deleted. [[Abg. Beautiful: as a dubious figure!]] [[Abg. Stefan: He's not fixed on his religion!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] And of course, as you call into the forest, it comes out even more clearly, I see that as a huge problem, which unfortunately or mainly is connected only to this one party. [[Abg. Stefan:... Criticism is then anti-Semitic!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, if you want to become a normal party, a right party, then, I think, you need to change seriously. [[Abg. Schimanek: We are a normal party!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We are definitely a successful party! We can say that once!]] A final word in the good: I would like to thank all those who have accompanied me in these years, of course the employees and the people here in the house. I also wish you all personally – personally, not politically! – All the best, but above all I wish people in this country that the future will be good for them.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19639	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your work in this House, wish you all the best personally and wish you above all health. – Good, thank you! There is no mention of these agenda items at all. The debate is closed. The rapporteur wishes to do so in accordance with § 63 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Pension Adjustment Act 2018 in 1767 of the Supplements. There are two additional amendments tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, an additional amendment tabled by Mr Köchl, colleagues, and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Muchich, Wöginger, colleagues and others contains a constitutional provision, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr President of the Council, on his report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. 1 introduced. Whoever stands for it, I am looking for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning Rule. 1 introduced. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 6 in Art. 1 introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a sign of acknowledgment. – That too is the unanimity. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The Members of Parliament, Mr Köchl and Mr Cot, have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 1 and 2 and the resulting new numberings in Article 2. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new paragraphs 1 and 3 as well as the resulting new numberings in Article 2. Whoever stands for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an additional amendment or amendment concerning Articles 2 to 6. If you're here, I'll ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on the protection of the pension system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 218.) Now we come to the vote on item 5 on the draft law on a Federal Act amending the Wöginger Act concerning the Wöginger Act, the Wöginger Act, the Wöginger Act, the Wöginger Act, the Wöginger Act and the Pension Act for War Victims, the Sacrifice of Victims, and the Law on the Victims of Victims, and the Title and Admission. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:42:38]] 6. Point Request by Members of Parliament Josef Muchich, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Employment Act, the Goods Act, the Allowance Payment Act, the Domestic and Domestic Employees Act, the Vocational Training Act, the General Civil Code and the Land Labor Act 1984 (2306/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19809	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has had a period of up to 11 months. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There was no oral reporting. We are now going into the debate. Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19843	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed this afternoon, including the application for the approximation of the rights of workers and employees. I am very clear to the People's Party: We want this alignment. We have also done this in the election program, and we have repeatedly proved that we agree in recent times. For example, we have unified the rates between 2002 and 2006 when it came to the health insurance contributions rates et cetera. In 2013 we made the amendment to the flood sacrifice in the ABGB, because the worker was not allowed to go home if his house had been flooded but the employee was very well. – That’s adjusted. In essence, there are now only two points: One concerns the termination periods and the other the payment of the payment. However, these are issues which we believe need to be discussed in the social partners. That is why we have explicitly indicated and anchored this in our programme. A time limit was set for the examination of this application at the last meeting. That is to say, there is no assessment, no involvement of the social partners, no committee meeting, no discussion about it, and above all there is a lack of the single concept of workers. If we carry out all the changes in the field of workers and employees and we bring them together and we compare them, then we talk about a uniform concept of workers, then we no longer distinguish between workers and employees – even in the establishments, not even in the works councils – then we have a uniform concept of workers! – From our point of view, this is not without consideration and not without discussion. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] I believe that Mr President Foglar has a similar approach, because otherwise there would not be an amendment, as a result of which it was agreed during the notice periods to allow this to enter into force only in 2021, since it would not work in practice at all. You have to say it very clearly and emphasize it: This is simply and simply not reasonable, neither the undertakings nor the social partners, and it shows a bad picture of a relationship between employers and employees. But since we want to confirm this and prepare it properly – we stand for this alignment of workers and employees! – I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, that will be necessary. I'll give my colleague, Oellinger. Dear Karl, I thank you. We were rarely of one opinion, but we have always been able to discuss with each other in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] You got the 88. ASVG-Novelle and is perfectly right: There are no longer many experts who can still read the ASVG. However, this also applies to the uniform worker concept. We need a re-codification in labour and social law. This will be the task of the next Federal Government, and this is really necessary, as otherwise we will not be able to work properly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Again: From the People's Party there is a clear commitment to the alignment of workers and employees, but no Ho-ruck action, but this must happen at the end of the day with a proper preparation and with a uniform concept of employment. Then this is a round story, and then it fits.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e19956	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20030	Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20051	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that this proposal has set very clear objectives and, I believe, it is not fair and not in order to try to achieve anything else at this item on the agenda. The fact is that workers and employees already have the opportunity to choose a joint works council, and they are already doing so in many businesses. The fact is that the workers themselves should decide whether they want separate bodies, a workers' body or an employee's body. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: That is not worthy of you!]] [[Call at the FPÖ – towards ÖVP – why are they so nervous?]] [[Abg. Loacker: 1859!]] But now to the request: Estimated social partners in the ÖVP! You know very well, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the trade unions have long called for equalization of the rights of workers and employees. For years, at expert level, at the top level was negotiated – we know the events in Bad Ischl, we know the events in Alpbach. The fact is, we were practically agreed in May that we are making an approximation in the payment of payments. All of a sudden, radio silence was at the ÖVP in May, it was no longer negotiated and it was not concluded – although the content of the government agreement was. What surprises me so much – perhaps you can tell me about it – is the following: ==References== August 2017 the news comes in Alpbach: workers shall be equal to employees; Sebastian Kurz demands that. In 22 press releases – I have all here – it has been announced: Yes, Sebastian Kurz wants to equal workers and employees. ==References== August until our deadline request on 20 August. September there has been no word from the Chamber of Commerce and has not written us any entrepreneur that this is not right. ==References== September we made this deadline request and at once there is unrest, at once many press releases came from the black realm of the Chamber of Commerce, at once there were press conferences, at one time this idea was so bad. No one understands. No one understands that a worker is in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website You have to explain that, no one understands! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] Nor does anyone understand the arguments that existed at the press conference of the Chamber of Commerce with all its divisions. - I looked at that anyway. I also read all the letters, and there were many mass letters, in which only the letterhead was exchanged. In concrete terms, the tourism sector says: We are not against alignment, but we should sit down at a table. The business and craft sector says: In the case of weather dependent industries, long notice periods would be a huge problem. We need this bridge. The Chamber itself says: Give us a few months, and we'll do a good model! Now we're doing it exactly as some people wanted: We are giving ourselves up to 2021 during the notice periods, so that the industries can prepare for it. We make exceptions in seasonal industries. We will also change the deadlines until the date of entry into force. – That means we have responded accordingly. To this end, I would like to make the following amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues – I would like to explain it in the key points –: The following is amended and supplemented: Approximation in the case of sickness with effect from 1. the following point (b) is added: Approximation of important personal grounds for prevention of service with effect from 1. the following point (b) is Termination schemes: from 1. January 2021. In the case of seasonal holdings: In areas dependent on the weather, different rules may be laid down in the collective agreement; Entry into force – as with the termination schemes – from 1. January 2021. The final point is the payment of compensation in the event of sickness by the service provider, which is also valid if the end of the contract is agreed; Entry into force: from 1. ==References== You know, I would have expected that due to these changes there would be a turning point in the thinking world of the ÖVP, because workers now finally have the opportunity to be equated. And if a salesman – my colleague, treasure, did it right – is cancelled on Friday and must stay at home on Saturday because she has only one day notice period at the end of the working week, I ask: What is fair and just about that in the 21st century? - Century? I also call on the EIA to accept this amendment and this point. I think the workers and the employees in Austria deserved this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20141	The amendment is sufficiently supported. It is properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20342	Mr Mag. Loacker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20363	Mr President. Federal Minister! What you said to Bank Austria is not true. If we had not adopted this law, Bank Austria would not have transferred 7 percent, but not at all. – The Constitutional Court has said that. Then the Italian pensions would have stayed with the Italian bank, now it has the Austrian taxpayer at the neck. To this law: The law is sold under an attractive title, but it's an election bill, an election title that sounds nice: Harmony workers and employees. The creation of a common worker concept continues to exist. What remains is a part of the commercial order of 1859. For example, workers continue to be subject to the regulations for dismissals – for example, if you are suffering from a depressing illness. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That would not have been a witchcraft for the Social Democrats to equalise the grounds for dismissal, but they do not want it at all. They do not rely on a common worker concept, because their internal structure is so written – the workers' unions and the employees' unions – they need the two groups so that they do not have to touch their own structure. A common worker concept should also have looked at how to regulate pension law. What is the difference between occupational incapacity pension for employees and invalidity pension for workers? What differences are justified and which are not? – But you don’t want to! They want the separate works councils, because in this way one can artificially screw up the number of exempted works councils, although that is no longer contemporary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] It's just about your own advantage! Whatever you're not paying attention to: If there is a common worker concept – Mr Katzian, lock up your ears instead of your mouth! – then we would also have a good advertising for the apprentices. [[Abg. Katzian: You don't even know each other!]] Then there would not be the difference between apprentices who are later workers, and graduates of a higher school who are employees, but then there would be workers and everyone had the same status. You could do something for the workforce! But you don't even care! You're interested in a cheap election hat. You can have a common worker concept with NEOS, but then fully with all the consequences. We are not to have a cheap election-flight!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20410	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20433	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just one word to you, Mr Loacker: You obviously haven't understood the bank Austria story to this day. If we hadn't changed the law, Bank Austria would have paid only 7 per cent, and what would have followed, I don't want to talk about it at all. Many businesses would have done that. That is why it was good that we changed this – by the way, at the pressure of the Freedom Party, which was said only once. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Stöger.]] I know, Minister, you think this is funny, but you know it very well. You've also shown quite some emotions. It was our pressure, you gave up at the last moment. Even if you don't want to hear that anymore, it was. I can remind you of that later. Now on today's decision, on equality between workers and employees – this is actually what it is all about: I think it is a historic day today that we from the FPÖ also allow us to finally overcome the class struggle in Austria after 70 years. Let us not forget what this class struggle in Austrian history has already done! Just think of the outbreaks of violence in the First Republic, which were also due to this class struggle. One thing you have to say – because the ÖVP is doing so – is: It was the politicians of SPÖ and ÖVP who often built their electoral programmes on this class struggle and thus lived very well. But we're going to get over that now. I would just like to remind you that it was in fact Jörg Haider, who had already called for the first time in 1979 to be equal to and to treat workers and employees alike. That is why, I believe, it is now important, right and good that we have brought this law to a very good conclusion, because we have also negotiated very hard. It's clear you can't just go over the economy. Mr Wöginger, if you now criticize that there are transitional arrangements so long, I must say yes, thank God there are these. [[Abg. Wöginger: Where is it then? Where?]] We have also deliberately negotiated that there should be harmonisation only from 2021 on, so that the economy can continue to adapt to it. However, it will be a year before that the resolution will be abolished. This means a savings of about €70 million for the economy in the year. That is, until this equality is achieved, it is €140 million that the economy has saved itself. And yes, due to these long transitional periods, there is still the possibility and the need to put in place further accompanying measures for the economy until then. This is, of course, necessary and important. [[Abg. Wöginger: Did you negotiate with the reds? Did the secret negotiations take place? We weren't there!]] . You can now, Mr Wöginger, because you are not present, although you are calling for it to break in and make things bad, but I think the law is a very good one, and there have also been very long and very tough negotiations. [[Abg. Wöginger: Where did negotiations occur?]] – That you have sounded out there and that you have withdrawn your own designs, that is another story, Mr. Wöginger. I say to you that I am very glad that we finally did this together today for the workers and employers in this country. [[Calls and countercalls between Deputies Wöginger and Walter Rosenkranz.]] For us, the industry solution for the seasonal sectors – that has already been said by colleague Muchitsch – is also particularly important. This applies, for example, to tourism, i.e. to seasonal businesses, and also to the construction industry, especially to particularly burdened industries, which can be rehearsed; there are these possibilities. I think this is a very important step, because it does not destroy jobs either. That now the ÖVP is producing and everything is bad and everything is bad, I am sorry, especially since today its speakers have explained that you have always demanded from the ÖVP. It is your Sebastian Kurz, who has demanded this, and whenever it should be implemented, then suddenly you are no longer present, then you sound everywhere and then criticize. They then really create themselves and criticize the long transitional periods until 2021, instead of saying: Yes, that's smart, that's important for the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I don't understand. Instead, you come up with a motion for a resolution, in which you set a deadline until sometime in 2018, although you know exactly that on 7 July 2018 you will be able to reach a decision. In November 2017, the motion for a resolution was rejected. [[Abg. Wöginger: But there until 2021!]] This is not a motion for a resolution, Mr President. Obviously you are not informed at all! Do you know what you're talking about? The motion for a resolution was adopted on 7 July. ==References== [[Calls and countercalls between Deputies Wöginger and Walter Rosenkranz.]] – If you listened, you’d have learned something now, but you can’t even do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The amendment, Mr President, will be adopted today and will be sustainable. Your motion for a resolution was adopted on 7 July. ==References== Perhaps you don't know that, so I'll tell you again. If you had been careful, you could have learned something. It would not be bad for the EIA to negotiate, and to support it, because it finally brings an injustice to an end in this Republic. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, if we were not invited!]] It's clear to me that you obviously like the class struggle because you're building your election fights on it. I don't think we need that anymore. The class struggle divides society. I think we need a merger of this society.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20607	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20629	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to begin by quoting a renowned labour law and social law expert, Professor Dr. Marhold, who said: “The goal is good, but this request is not at all.” – I think we can join him. I think our consignee – [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Your application or amendment, which one?]] You can then speak, colleague Rosenkranz – is certainly worth more than your request that you submit here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon.]] I must say quite honestly that I am quite surprised, as social partners and employers' representatives, about this procedure. Mrs Belakovich has always talked about negotiations. This must have been secret negotiations between SPÖ and FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, you were there, but you withdrew it!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Where were we?]] I believe that this must have been secret negotiations between you and the SPÖ, because this result is a result that is difficult to take part in the collective agreements. As a social partners, I can only say that this is a way that we cannot go along with it. [[Calls and calls between Mr Belakovich and Mr Wöginger.]] Mr Muchitsch, I would like to speak directly to you, because I know you in and for myself as a partner with whom you can negotiate long and hard, but most of the time – you can say almost always – you have counted your handshake. But now you have done a serious damage to the Social Fund's proposal. You know that and you do it anyway. That is what I believe in and for myself is what the social partners do not do well, and above all those who want to abolish social partnership. [[Abg. Heinzl: Say this to the short, he also wants to remove it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I've already said that The aim is good, but we cannot agree with the way in which we want to achieve this goal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress once again: You can agree to our motion for a resolution which is much better than the one which has been tabled here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, one thing I would like to say to you: With this proposal – even if you are moving it to three years now – I think it is simply that one may have created an exception for tourism and for these industries, but what about the many other sectors that are now affected by it? [[Abg. Belakovich: The transitional period is called that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Not now... 2021!]] So I'm very irritated about the procedure. The Federal Chancellor said today that there is a day after the 15th century. October, and I hope that the social partnership will be held the day after the 15th century. ==References== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20812	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the request is okay. I would have liked to have an even wider request. I would also like us to have had enough time to discuss it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Unfortunately, the EIA has no longer agreed to the Committee's date, so we had no opportunity to do so. I would also have liked to have discussed with you in the last – at least – eight years in which we Greens have repeatedly requested to work on a new employee concept, but it has been postponed over and over again. I think that's enough now! I am glad that we are finally taking a successful step in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was now this great stir of the ÖVP, of the Chamber of Commerce and of the IV, and there was the argument of planning: Nothing can be planned. I mean, now the deadline for implementation will be extended to 2021 anyway. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That was the Economic Federation...!]] I would like to point out – especially for the spectators – which regulation we currently have. The seller in her bakery store can find out on Thursday that she will no longer have a job on Monday. It falls back to unemployment benefit within three days, but in itself does not deserve so much – if you look at the KV – that it definitely falls below the poverty threshold – and this within three days of the weekend. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That's what I call planning!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do not talk about planning, and that the economy is overwhelmed by dealing with new termination periods within three years. It can't be. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's good that this is happening now. 2021, it takes me a little too long. I would also like to say that I would have had two further concerns in this context, namely that several contents of the commercial regulation in 1859, which is, so to speak, the basis for many of these workers' regulations, are being further revised. It cannot be that we have such antique regulations as valid in our labour law inside. There are reasons, for example, for instigation, which claim that it is justified to release someone because he has an infectious disease. That can't be. Please imagine very quickly that we can modernize here! The second point, which is also very, very important to me: The labour market has changed dramatically over the last 20 years – the key word is atyping, atypical employment relations, but also the digitization of the last five or ten years has always created new forms of employment. I'm just calling cloudworking, crowdworking et cetera. It is urgent that we have a labour and social law, which will bring all these new forms of employment back into our protection systems. These people live in gray areas, they work in gray areas between self-employment and non-self-employment and have no proper protection in the event of illness, no proper protection from low wages and paid holidays. Please, let's see that we're moving on too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to make a very specific motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I put this to your heart again today, then also because I will not belong personally to the next National Council. I was now 11 years of MEPs and spokesperson of the Greens. I think it has succeeded in bringing forward labour market policy in these eleven years, both through their own initiative and through projects of the Green Club in the field of labour policy. As a highlight, I would like to mention our support for the wage and social dumping control law and its further development, the training guarantee, later the training obligation, and also our extreme effort for an existentially high minimum wage. We have now taken one step, in our opinion not far enough, but I think we have a share in it. Ladies and gentlemen! But it was not only necessary to push on and move forward again and again, but I would also like to say clearly that it was also necessary to combat massively, namely the attack on our welfare state, on our social system, on our labour law by neoliberal forces. I would like to mention both our and my intense action against a twelve-hour working day by law. Unfortunately, especially last year in Parliament, the consistent deterioration of employment protection was massively noticeable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was very intense years for me. I have really tried to make it clear that people should not be social insurance numbers and cost points, but rather that it is a matter of bringing employment into a good balance with other life, private life, family life and also having a partnership relationship with employers. It may not have always happened that way in the polarization of the debate, but my business spokesperson Ruperta Lichtenecker will confirm that I have always tried with her in the dialogue to look at what that means, for example, for small companies, because I know of course that employers in dealing with social security, with the administration really have to face challenges. We all know that inconsistent legislation, such as non-smokers protection, has led to unacceptable conditions that are really not necessary – therefore I would like to stress that I have always tried to see both sides. Ladies and gentlemen! Politics, economy, labour market, that belongs together and I just wanted to push, push forward, at the end – you can just put it together – in order to achieve that hopefully soon, but at least at some point, everyone can go home after his day of work and be satisfied, although tired, can't sleep and have to be afraid of not being able to pay the rent any more next month, don't have to be afraid that he can't offer his children the opportunities and promotions for their way of life, as he would like to, and don't have to be afraid to get sick, because then everything, in particular financially, the stream goes down. That's what I've tried to do, I've worked for it, and I've fought for it if it had to be, you know that. I thank you for your support, for your support, including for your willingness to cooperate, at least for the willingness to discuss with others. I am particularly grateful to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who were always very helpful, competent and supportive. Thanks also to my family, the friends, and of course the excellent staff, the Green Club staff, but also the other clubs – all good for you personally. It was nice, I was very happy. - Goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e20936	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21031	Ladies and gentlemen! I also thank you for the work done here in the House and wish you all the best personally, but also your family for the future. Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21055	Mr President. High house! Today is a really good day as it concerns the workers of this country. I'd like to tell you a story. I got 1975, I got 1st. September, a teaching started as a machine locker with three and a half years of teaching time, and next to me industrial merchants and technical drawing began with three years of teaching time. We have been trained together, but the apprenticeship compensation was different, the notice periods were different, simply based on the fact that the profession was established in the teaching contract. In 1990 a Member of this House, it was MP Rudi Nürnberger, said on the occasion of the anniversary 100 years of metal union, he would not want to exceed the third millennium by making differences in the metal industry between workers and employees. In 1990, in an intensive dialogue with its industry, the social partners began to remove this difference in a process, and it succeeded. The trade unions have participated, the Metal Trade Union and the GPA, and they have jointly concluded collective agreements with the social partners, starting in the energy sector, in the metal sector and in the electrical industry. It has succeeded in implementing the approximation as was possible in the collective agreement. That was 1990. And I really don't understand it when you say that if you make an adjustment today and if you decide on equality in Parliament today, it is overwhelming that companies have not been able to adapt to it. This has been a topic for employers since 1990, at least in the Chamber of Commerce. The metal industry has not gone down, the electrical industry has not gone down, and good developments have been made. I can also remind myself, when I became a Social Minister, of the discussions on this subject; and if we are today adapting the payment to be paid if we are doing equal opportunities here today, if we also adapt the notice periods and if we take account of the legitimate interests of an industry in amendments, then it is time to implement them. We do not need to be afraid that the social partners I very much appreciate and the Austrians have done good are thrown right overboard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important to me that we have a proposal in front of us today, which is based on a better regulation, that we jointly regulate the payment of compensation, and that we regulate the grounds for preventing the service for personal reasons. This is what the service providers in this country deserved. I am particularly pleased that you are giving your approval to this proposal today. It is a good day for Austrian workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21100	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21122	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Minister speaks of a good day today: It has also been our idea to equalise workers and employees. But one thing is quite clear today: There are far too few entrepreneurs in here. As an entrepreneur, when I talk about the consequences, I think that you can believe it – not just as a tourist, but as a matter of fact. We experience peaks in every sector that we have to cover. We no longer have this linear production from the 1960s, which Mr Katzian still dreams of. The world has changed, only the social partners are still in the 20th century. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] The Chamber of Commerce has now dropped the pants twice in a row, the one running all the way around, and the social partners are de facto dissolved. That's what we can say, and that's embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] First of all, the minimum wage was to compensate for the flexibility of working time: This has not been achieved, and Mr Leitl has told us that we do not have to worry about the flexibility of working time, we should be glad that not €1 700 minimum wage has come. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Katzian]] That's not an argument. And now we're experiencing exactly the same thing again: You have negotiated, and they have pulled you over the table – just like it is! Every business policy, every economic competence, the FPÖ has thrown overboard, and that is what we tell entrepreneurs, that is what we say to the gastronomy, and that has consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Big.]] You really believe that this is all linear and that you can make individual exceptions for tourists or anyone else. [[Federal Minister Stäger: Go!]] – Mr Minister, don’t “go”! – For every carpenter, for every installer, for anyone who has a company in the West – and you obviously come less in the West or you probably haven't been in a small and medium-sized business for a long time, although your Federal Chancellor always talks about strengthening them – this is an attack on entrepreneurship. That, this scheme, is an attack, and you have to know exactly where this is going, because it costs companies €50 million a year – only the tourists! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The NEOS are an attack on Austria!]] In this respect, I believe that there is a need to counter it. In this respect, we have quite different proposals which you have not even considered. At the same time, there has to be an approximation – and I agree with you. Workers and employees must be placed at the same level, but your proposal is smooth to reject. Those over there have given up in this respect, i.e. the ÖVP, who believes in something else. [[towards ÖVP]] The Chamber of Commerce is de facto dead, it no longer has any experts, that is an insanity for every entrepreneur; and in fact, it has to pay back all the contributions and double them with a pain money. Otherwise, I can't imagine that! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] If I am a businessman and then hear that there have been long negotiations, but one has not been negotiated now, then, I say, the social partners are dead, then we no longer need them, but then we do not need them permanently anymore. The Chamber of Labour must be congratulated; the Chamber of Commerce must be scoffed, nothing else remains at present. You have totally failed in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21237	Mr Wimmer has now been spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21258	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn, that would fit you if the social partners were no longer to exist. [[Abg. Schellhorn: There's no more!]] You'll have to wait a long time. Since Mr Haubner meant that we were in danger of abolishing social security, I should like to quote: Georg Kapsch referred to the Social Partners as the Tomb of Austria. Christian Knill, our social partners in the metal industry, said on 6 June. July, the social partners have been abolished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] Stefan Pierer, the Big Donor, the Upper Austrian supertransmitter with €450,000, said that the social partners are “blockers and coffins”. Mr. Finanzminister Hans Jörg Schelling was here today and unfortunately has already disappeared, but he said that the social partners are an out-flow model, “the social partners are dead”. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner! Please do not charge us that we try to remove the social partners; these are the Members of your group, from your party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, today is a special day for the workers, for the workers. It is a great opportunity that we can work together today to achieve equality for workers and employees. We will see today exactly which parties stand for the workers, for the workers, and which parties stand against the workers' interests. I would really consider this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to abandon the workers! It is a huge chance that we will finally take this step today. The statements of the ÖVP are really interesting. Everyone says – Mr Wöinger has repeated it before –: Yes, that is important, we have to do it!, but President Leitel has today sent a press release stating that the alignment of workers and employees is very important, but not the appropriate time. Yesterday, Secretary-General Köstinger said: Of course, this is totally important, that is a matter of our hearts, but it is not the right time! And top candidate Shortly, it's exactly the same horn. Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, how long should the workers wait again for 100 years? – 1921 the employee law was passed – 96 years ago! – and since then we have not achieved this equality. This is really a shame that we still need to talk about it today! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of which about 3.7 million workers are 1.3 million workers. Are these really second-class workers? We won't take that anymore! Ladies and gentlemen, one thing to do is because August Wöginger highlighted this very much: August Wöginger was a worker's representative himself; and he had not had a week since his first working day, not a day, but at least six weeks of notice. There is no one in this House who, in addition to the mandate, is also a worker who has a shorter notice period than six weeks. Most have three months, four months, five months or six months. How should we explain this to workers who do not enjoy it? When I see the notice periods here: The textile cleaner has a week – which is really a shame –; the gardener, for example, has a week; the meatman who works in the trade also has a week; the florist has two weeks – you already have a little better – and the commercial forestry companies also have two weeks. The baker has another day! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Middle Ages! You have to imagine this: On Friday, the boss says: You're not coming again on Monday!; and he takes his pack and goes. Ladies and gentlemen, that must be done. That can't happen anymore. This rightlessness, this arbitrariness must end! It is probably a coincidence that 202 years ago, i.e. 1815, exactly in the course of the Vienna Congress of Slave Trade in Europe was abolished. 106 years later, the Employment Act came in 1921; and 96 years later, so today, we may really be able to bring about equality. It is a great day for our workers, for our workers. In the third millennium, decent termination periods are in fact a human right, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm really telling everyone: Whoever does not support this vote today should be quite ashamed!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21355	Mr Dr. Franz has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21377	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The equality of workers and employees always sounds very good, as the concept of equality always sounds good. It is often used as a syllable, for it is satisfying the sense of justice, and one has the feeling that one is doing something good for the population if one is best able to cross the left equality dogma across the entire state and beyond its borders. But I believe that the equality, if you want to move in everywhere, ends in an instrument of violence. We have seen it in the eastern block; the equality is always a very difficult term, and one should be careful to establish any rules of equality quickly, quickly and invadingly, because one has the impression that one is doing something good with it. [[Abg. Honey: At least Austria experienced 1848! At least that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Notabene does not mean that one should allow injustices to exist or take unfair situations into account, quite the contrary, one should look at this quite precisely and in peace, but so dogmatic stories, according to which all must be equated, I consider an unreasonable approach. If we want to create the same conditions for workers and employees, we look at the health conditions. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, despite socialist health policy and social policy, workers have been much worse off in recent decades. [[Abg. Matznetter: Doctors like you, you want to say!]] The workers get a worse precautionary medicine, which is given worse medicine as a whole. This is not because the doctors do, but because that is due to the system. That would be an approach that you go in there once and say you're doing prevention programs for the workers. I can bring another example from my area: the colossal copy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I have recently tabled a request for the establishment of a national action plan on intestinal cancer prevention, so that we can save 3,000 Austrians every year. To this day, nothing has happened. On the other hand, we apply for mammography, we do something; but, unfortunately, as regards intestinal health, nothing happens in the precautionary area of God. Since I am now also giving my farewell speech here, I would like to invite you to take this idea on board. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That would be something where equality could really be pursued, in a sensible area, so that everyone in health care has the same opportunities. Please accept this, Minister of Social Affairs. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Dietrich and Mr Hagen.]] If we are already in medicine, I would like to make a comment on the so-called two-class medicine. [[Abg. We're not in medicine, we're in labour law!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] The two-class medicine, the evil private insurers, the evil private hospitals and the evil private doctors are always damned. Ladies and gentlemen, without private patients, without private insurers, of whom there are nearly two million already in Austria – all voters, adopos – the system would have long been unfinanceable. 25 percent of the total health budget is spent privately. This is the real source of money for the health system. And here all come and condemn the private patients who voluntarily do something for themselves and for the others and, anyway, pay their contributions to the system. I believe that this is an unfair treatment for the Austrian population. Since this is my provisional farewell from the House today, allow me also a personal final note. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I was very happy to be a cross-border user in politics, and I was always trying to express clear and quite decent opinions and to have conservative views. It hasn't tasted everyone in a long time. I was mediatically again and again the evil, the reactionary, the conservative, the nationalist; all these things were hung around me. I didn't prove myself princess, I think. [[Abg. Belakovich: Not a glass chin!]] I took all of this and still represented my opinions. I believe and know that there are countless men and women out there who appreciate my attitude. I know about the feedback I get. In the ordination, private, in the circle of friends, in the circle of acquaintances and also in the political circle, there are enough people who represent my views – don't be as loud as I am, but at least there are them, and they are quite numerous. My request for this last speech is: Listen to those, because they represent the bourgeois essence of this country! If I could end up characterizing myself, if you were to ask where I was actually standing, then I would say that my attitude corresponds most closely to that of the U.S. Republicans. [[Abg. Wenninger: (delighted) A little Trump!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] I can therefore say, as is the case with a large other Austrian Republican: ‘I’ll be back’. I insist that I'll be back next time, because I'd like to get back to the country from here. And one last sentence in view of the elections next Sunday: No matter which camp you belong to, I wish you a lot of strength and wisdom for the future, and above all I wish you – to the left – honesty and patriotism to cope with the coming difficult times and tasks. My appeal to this National Council: Keep the Republic, keep the nation high, and do everything for our home country Austria! – Thank you and thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21521	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you all the best for your personal future and thank you for your work for the High House. - Thank you. Mr Wurm has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Minister! That was a very interesting discussion now, you might have to make some things clear. Of course, it is a good day for 1.3 million workers in Austria today, a great day, but the merit is especially due to us, because consent works because of the Freedom Party, since we have been trying for decades to implement this idea with red or with black. Let's get to the SPÖ first: Mr Wimmer, you read the SPÖ's scapegoat. If you note that a baker has only one week's notice period – or one day, you have said – and trust yourself in this and if you praise the social partnership or the government's participation in social democracy over the last decades, then this is a case of sin for me, and for this one has to be ashamed, because if it was really important for you in the last decades to reconcile the workers and employees, you would have implemented it with the ÖVP or against the ÖVP. [[Call the FPÖ:A day!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] They were much more important than equality between workers and employees. It works today because you are desperate; we have new elections in three days, and of course you are desperately trying to move the workers, which is 90 percent with us, over again a little. [[Abg. Yes, exactly!]] Of course, that's a shame, I say now, and it won't work either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What is perfectly clear to me and is important today – and I look over to the ÖVP, of course: We need employees who bring and work 40 hours. We already have far too many, hundreds of thousands who do not perform in Austria, neither as workers nor as employees. [[Cheerfulness of MEPs Brunner, Schatz und Lichtenecker.]] I am referring only to the asylum crisis, the sum of the minimum security beneficiaries, emergency workers and so on. This means that we naturally need workers and employees for the economy, so people who go to work at all. Now I come to the ÖVP very briefly: If you were to really visit businesses at some point – and would be honest here at the speaker’s desk – you would know what problems businessmen in Austria have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jank]] The main problem for entrepreneurs is getting skilled workers. That's the main problem. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For 1.3 million workers, for the most part also skilled workers who have been taught, today means an emotional appreciation. That's very important. To raise the teaching and the technical training in Austria to the same level is very important! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It may also be necessary to mention a very interesting side effect for the ÖVP. The Chamber of Labour Zangerl, which is usually the left half of the empire, told me a week ago: If the ÖVP does not agree with this, it will put its ÖVP membership at rest. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] You can remind him and see if he really does. I asked him what he said as the head of the Chamber of Workers and as an ÖVP member to such an approach if it is not even now possible to equal workers and employees. You can make that up internally, I just wanted to mention it very briefly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Now I come to the scapegoat of the ÖVP: Now, as far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, hundreds of entrepreneurs are asking to write e-mails, the economy is not helping. In recent years, they have caused massive damage to the economy in Austria and, above all, to SMEs. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Now you do it!]] I read it very briefly: VAT increase in tourism – as you mentioned tourism – from 10 to 13 percent, increase in real income tax, capital income tax, Russian sanctions, energy efficiency law – ask a few entrepreneurs! – absolute ban on smoking from May 2018 – thus losing €100 million of investment costs – and the EU bureaucracy sample, the entire bureaucracy madness. At the very moment, this probably occurred to you before the election on Sunday: There is now even the Ominous Pommes and Schnitzel Regulation, of which everyone has said that this is again a FPÖ story and will never come. From spring 2018 the chefs stand out with us in Austria with the color table in the kitchen and baked schnitzel and Pommes. You can explain this to your entrepreneurs outside! The harmonization that is already being suspended and very sensible does not put the businessmen in Austria in any trouble, as you say. [[Abg. Wöginger: Why are you driving it off if it is eh...?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In summary, the following is quite clear: The workers and employees, that is, workers in general, now know very well who their real representation is and who really looks forward to the reward of those who bring performance. It won't be possible to pick up the SPÖ anymore. And I tell you all SMEs in Austria have now also understood that the ÖVP unfortunately God is no longer there for the real economy in Austria. [[towards ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21694	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21723	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I had to speak again for a brief contribution, because we are in favour of alignment, but not in this way – I would like to stress this very clearly once again. If Mr Wimmer has quoted Mr Knill, who has been quoted by Mr Schelling, I must say that you are confirming these gentlemen with your procedure; and I am personally sorry for the social partners, of course, because we have always worked out solutions together – always together! – and the trade unionists' handshake has always counted. I think it's a heavy foul now. I take note of that. I say it again: The goal is good, but the process of your side is damaging to social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21756	The next speaker is Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21778	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am one of 1.3 million workers, and I am proud to be workers! [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] I am proud to have been this for 46 years, and I am proud to be able to represent the interests of these people here in this Parliament for 15 years! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised that Mr Schellhorn says that there are far too few entrepreneurs in this House. If you count on how many workers are here in this house, you will find out which professional group is really underrepresented here in this House! It's not the entrepreneurs, Mr Schellhorn, it's the workers and the workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for 46 years I have been working as a worker, and for 46 years the legal approximation of workers' rights to those of employees has been granted, it is negotiated in the social partners' bodies – in part, something has been achieved, the majority of the legal approximation of rights is not achieved. I am really surprised that now the ÖVP has the argument that there is a need for a uniform concept of employees, because it is also discussed for over 40 years to find a term. The term, dear August, is actually there: We're employees. I don't need to think of any other term, it's present. It is just a lazy excuse that is proposed here in order not to agree with it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandel and Mr Wöinger.]] I can only tell you: That's a lazy excuse. We are employees, I do not need any other definition. This term applies to all. I must say that the changes that are being made are good; that has already been quoted by several: There are longer notice periods only with 1. January 2021, the changes in the right of payment only with 1. In July 2018, or in the case of the KV authorisation for the seasonal industries. It's all in it; what really bothers me is the discussion about it. It's always said: That's Hush-Puff. What do the so-called social partners say, Peter Haubner? – “Salzburger Nachrichten” today: There's a divisionobmann, Merkobmann Peter Buchmüller, who'll tell you something. Do you know what he said in the “Salzburger Nachrichten ”? - I'll tell you: Only one of ten Members knows what he is voting on today. Does he think the other national councils here are stupid? [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Is this the picture that the trade unions of the Members here in this House have that only one in ten knows what he really is doing here? – I can tell you: I know what I'm voting on, and I'm certainly not the stupid man when he put me here Mr. Peter Buchmüller. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives, Walter Rosenkranz and Steinhauser.]] The next, also today in the media, is a statement by Mr Christoph Leitl as President of the Chamber of Commerce. Do you know what he is? First of all, did you say? – We need to disband the works councils! – It is probably his declared goal to resolve these, because I can only say to you: Whether and which works council a worker needs, the employee should be able to choose himself. Whether he wants a works council, a works council or a joint works council, he's supposed to choose himself, but a resolution, as Christoph Leitl suggests, is really the last thing I've heard from this gentleman! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know what he said today? – That really surprises me: Trade unionists are supposed to get out of parliament. To be a trade union boss and a representative is incompatible, he says, but the economic chamberers may sit in here. So if this is the policy that the ÖVP makes, dear August, then I have to tell you one thing: [[Abg. Wöginger: The cast farmer once said that!]] It promised briefly, but before the election he already broke it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21899	I now turn to Mr Ing. Klinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21920	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Listeners and listeners! If I remember the last month, then I have to say quite honestly, one has to pack the opportunity in the kick and decide on the equality of workers and employees when the possibility exists. I say this as one who is on the road in the transport industry, in the gastronomy and in the construction industry, and I have called again today because I – mayor of course too! [[Abg. Fekter: Mayor is missing!]] – approximately had to be calculated what the real problems in the payment of compensation are. I'm the first one. 90 percent of all businesses have less than 10 employees. For these small businesses with less than ten employees, there are now 75 percent as a pay-for-money payment in the case of disease. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] That, I think, is also very essential. Now we could calculate this, every now and then: What's better? The old system in which we distinguish between employees and workers, or the new system in which we have a uniform concept? – I say quite honestly: This has to be adjusted at last! Why does it have to be adjusted? – Because in the future we need to see that we simplify the systems. We have, and I have said this more often, over 1 400 different cases of collective agreements with all their additions, which all entrepreneurs have to calculate separately, and when they are examined and made a mistake, they are punished. I believe that this is a very essential step, namely an offer from the entrepreneurs to the workers, that we must all be sitting in a boat together. It will be important in the future to serve this boat at the same time because it is in the international Compare not whether we cook our own soup, but how well we put up. Here I am on the next thing that will be very crucial: If we want to change something in the entire wage calculation, which has become so complicated now that many people no longer recognize themselves – I only call the dirt allowances in different categories – then we have to change together – and this is also my offer to social democracy and to the ÖVP, which has long called for, I only say wage-additional rate – finally come to gross wage billing. This is a first offer so that we can achieve a real reduction in additional labour costs. From this you can easily and simply finance these additional costs for the entrepreneurs. It's just the will, the will to come to a good. What is still very important to me in this matter: We have forgotten in the whole matter of one thing: that something is always spoken of, but then it will not be implemented. When I look at what happened last month, in which the ÖVP and the Chamber of Commerce were massively on my phone and urged them not to vote, Sebastian Kurz says: We want equality between workers and employees!, then I notice exactly what the clou is: One presents a short presentation, and behind that are the gangs and the ÖVP like a crack, which already pulls its arms forward again, so that nothing happens in this very important matter. That is why, I believe, it is important for a step in the future to take this equality now.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e21968	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Mr Josef Muchitsch's motion for a resolution 2306/A. Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment concerning the title and Articles 1 to 7. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, together with the entry in the text of the 2306/A initiative by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Wöginger, colleagues and colleagues on the approximation of workers and employees, on uniform labour law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Treasure, colleagues and colleagues on the modernisation of the employee concept. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 219.) [[20:48:55]] 7. Point Request by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the insolvency-reimbursement law and the vocational training law (2304/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22084	Now we're on the 7th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has had a period of up to 11 months. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There is no need for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22118	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! All of us have experienced the discussion, I think. I've now got the current paper, and there's to read: "Walking show at the final meeting of the National Council", and that the heated debates were less about subjects than rather about shows. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which paper is that?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which paper is that?]] – This is the “Kronen Zeitung”. Mr Wurm has been here at the speaker's desk earlier and has asked the ÖVP whether it is not too little or even out of business. So I'd like to say something to everyone here: If you're out in the campaign, you know what people say. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes!]] We already knew in advance what the people outside say about today's meeting. They asked: Why is today's session at all? Do you really believe out there in politics when you spread three days before the election of Zucker and make the people wind that you go here and say, that's why we're going to choose you!? - That's a show program! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You have to leave your bubble!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's not the point! There's finally no ÖVP blockade!]] That's the point. And do you know what the point is? – Call me from the opposition a law from this legislative period, call me a law of the government parties that was decided that was not in review! [[Abg. Schellhorn: Gabriel, let's talk about the subject!]] - I'm just saying! To the left half, to the union, I have to say something quite clearly: You were so smart that you played there. It is the right of the opposition to take up this issue and to carry it through without consideration, although we know what opinions there are in relation to responsibility: It is a question of making a law so that the law also keeps the law afterwards and then one does not have months and years of work to repair this law. The SPÖ, at least the union, voted in favour. Something else I have to say to the union: The fact that the red union, which has actually built up this social state, our state, about the social partners, is the first to give NEOS and the liberals the right that we no longer need it, is all kinds of! So I can only wonder what you sacrifice in an election campaign and then believe to cut things better within two days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: After all, in some cases we have reviewed over 90 years in Austria!]] We shall now come to the item on the agenda, which is why I am here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's it!]] It's about home expenses. Today, a SPÖ member here at the speaker's desk said: The home costs are to be taken over now – which is good, I say quite honestly, for the apprentices. He said: The home costs are now taken over by the public authorities. – Do you know who you think is the public hand? Who then pays in these insolvency-pay funds? - Only the entrepreneur! The Minister has missed something: There is a surplus, and the law states that when a surplus is generated, the contribution is reduced. He did not reduce the contribution, but would like to cover these costs for the apprentices from this surplus which the entrepreneurs are paying. It's clear that they're going to pay for it. Then we are with the social partners again. We know we have different collective agreements. We have trained over 100 apprentices at home. We know that it is already included in the construction industry: There the apprentice pays nothing more, but it pays the entrepreneur. For example, we know – I only know about Carinthia – that 50 percent of home costs are recovered by the country of Carinthia. And now we're going to make another law, husch-pusch, then we're going to fix it again, and then we're going to double and triple the construction industry twice the cost. They are paying once more because they take over the costs, and in the future they are to pay it out of this fund again, because the other is another pot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what about the country's social benefits? – There too! Again: The approximation of workers and employees stands for the ÖVP out of dispute, no question at all, and there is no dispute that the home costs for the apprentices should also be taken over, but in a form that we are making a final law and not such a Husch-Fuch-Action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say one more thing: The pot from which this is financed is not the public hand, but the contribution of entrepreneurs. This is to be regulated first, and it should not be that the entrepreneur has to pay again. We would already have the opportunity if you were to fulfil your duties, Mr Minister, and, as it stands in the law, because of this surplus that we have there, the contributions would be reduced. Then we would have to reduce this additional wage reduction on the one hand, which we all already demand, and would not give it over three detours on the other. That's election show.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22277	I call Mr Hechtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22298	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Perhaps a short replica to the previous speaker, colleagues Obernosterer: If you look back a little bit, you have to admit honestly and also admit that this insolvency contribution has been reduced by 0.5 percent, stand today, 0.35 percent. That is only correct, so that it is not in the room, that nothing has been done by the Minister for Social Affairs in accordance with the legal provisions. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Obernosterer and Mr Minzig.]] - Thank God! There have been times when the insolvency fund was not so full due to massive insolvency. Now I come to Agenda item 7, which is actually about amending the Insolvency Reimbursement Act. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: It is a great day today, a great day for dual vocational training, especially for apprentices, because in practice and because of some lack of collective agreements by law it was so that an apprentice who went to or was called into vocational school and had to attend the boarding school, these boarding expenses were deducted from the apprentice compensation. This meant for the apprentice that he could actually spend only ten monthly apprentice compensations of the twelve monthly apprentices' compensations. This legal measure now corrects this, and the apprentice receives and can spend 12 times his apprenticeship compensation. And it will be very important to me to say that there will be no additional wage costs, because the companies who are now paying this boarding fee can apply for it through the apprenticeship office of the respective Chamber of Commerce, and the insolvency fund will then refund this boarding costs to the company. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Vocational training is an important point that guarantees that we are well placed in international competition with skilled workers. In Plan A, important points have already been made under the title 'Employers' package, which set out measures for apprenticeship training. I am thinking here of taking over the costs of the preparation course for the examination of the course, I am thinking of the training courses for apprentices who are also taking an internship abroad. One important point I would like to mention on that day is the first agreed level of generally 1 260 lessons for three-year apprenticeship. I am particularly grateful to our Minister for Education Sonja Hammerschmid, who has finally put the end to this being achieved. If we are in apprenticeship training, I would like our team of apprentices, who are from 14. At the World Championships in Abu Dhabi on October, we congratulate you and wish you a lot of success in these World Championships. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also have an amendment to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am convinced that this is also an essential point and that I am in agreement. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since it is the last meeting for me today after nine years of work in the House, I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the Social Democratic Club for their cooperation and the staff and secretaries of the Club as well as the Executive Board and the staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate for their support. Thank you, of course, also to the members of the Austrian-Germany parliamentary group, whose chairman I was allowed to be for this period: Thank you for that you have been so active. I would also like to thank my parliamentary colleagues and my parliamentary staff, with whom I have often spent more time than my family. Finally, I am particularly grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for your respectful communication and cooperation, even though we have expressed various, yes different opinions, which were very contrary. I wish you and the new National Council, which will meet here after the election, all the good and good for the future for the good of people in our beautiful Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22415	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22504	Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to thank you very much for the work done here in the House and wish you personally but also your family all the best for a positive common future. - Good. Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22528	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Yes, we agree that apprentices should not be charged with their accommodation. However, we are totally opposed to the fact that this is fed out of the insolvency payment fund. On the contrary, we would even say that if this is too high, you have to reduce the additional wage costs. But this approach is only symptomatic, because in reality it is so that we discriminate against the apprentices, the skilled, up to the training from the outset. When I look at my district of Pongau: If there are 300 open apprenticeships and only 30 job seekers, there is generally a problem with attractiveness. While we pay the lawyer's training to the office, the professional and the master have a discrimination that needs to be countered, and this is not possible with a replacement of the costs for apprenticeship accommodation, so to speak, with this monetary amount. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You mean the student until the conclusion of the Jus-Studium!]] –Yes, Mr Rosenkranz, I know you have a great joy with me; I know, with you, too, Mr Rosenkranz. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I'm only measuring you on your high demands!]] –Letting But you also talk to the others! I believe that there is a need for a concept in this respect. Education policy is employment policy. In this respect, if we consider when young people decide whether they are doing the matura or a professional training or a higher technical training, we will find that this is much later than 20 years ago. There we must create incentives and also think about whether this educational path is based on the Theresian model – that is, until the 18th century. To go to school or stop at the age of 15 is the right way. As we know, today the 17-year-olds change teaching much more often than they did 20 years ago. At the age of 15, they already knew what to do. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] So we need a completely different policy to get the professionals of the future. In the example of Bishopshofen, the example of Pongau is: In three years we'll have 270 experts there too little. This cannot be wagered by paying you the accommodation, but in general we need to maintain a different approach to how we gain skilled workers, as we do on the internal market in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22581	Mr Mag. Hauser's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22603	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. It is a day of joy for the workers today, and I do not understand the ÖVP at all: Do you have anything against the working population? It rejects the equality of workers and employees. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, the ÖVP stands like a man for it!]] You are opposed to the fact that apprentices are given the socio-political appreciation that is urgently needed by the teaching. I don't understand you at all. This is – three days before the election! – a revelation for the electorate outside that the ÖVP is speaking out here in Parliament today against the working population and against the apprentices. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Walter Rosenkranz.]] This too is a clear message, and I hope that the message will arrive at the electorate. For me, it is incomprehensible that there is also a strong commitment to boarding costs and that does not agree. In particular, the apprentices need our support and the promotion of social policy. It doesn't make sense to be constantly sorry that we have too few apprentices that we have job shortages. - Well, let's do something about it! And then the NEOS say: Yeah, that's nothing, or that's nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – Yes, sometime we have to start! The start is necessary, and I think that taking over boarding costs is an important social policy step for our apprentices. This also gives the apprentices recognition and appreciation, which really do them good. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We've been talking about this topic for years now. Then you take a decisive step today and here – and the ÖVP is voting against it, and NEOS are relativizing the whole thing. I also believe that we need to do even more for the apprentices. For example, we need contemporary teaching material, we need to intensify e-learning. One will see that teaching may also bring good internships much more into the classroom. That's clear. Today, however, we are taking this step, and we as the Freedom Party are going to strongly support this initiative, we will agree, and we will continue to work towards further initiatives for apprentices. I should also like to make a request on this occasion: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is now an offer to the ÖVP. Don't let the entrepreneurs be in the rain! Get up today! Sit down! Do not speak empty words! That's a repeated offer, I wrote it out to myself; it's not the first time we've given you the invitation. I can say that, with us, I also mean the other opposition parties, we raised this issue of the withdrawal of the VAT increase in the Tourism Committee several times, on 30 June. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== We have already tried in the Tourism Committee on June 2015 to reduce this absurd burden on tourism companies in agreement. This has failed with the ÖVP, but also with the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you are overcrowded, multiple times overcrowded. Your Basti Briefly announced that this load was a mistake. Today you have the chance to show character. Today you have the opportunity to show that you are behind the tourism industry. Today you have the chance to return €250 million to the tourism industry. That's a discharge! Previously, the tourism industry was burdened with this increase in VAT. Today, if you regret that equality between workers and employees costs something, I have to say: First of all, there are long transitional periods for termination periods – until 2021 – and there are further weakenings. ==References== In January 2020, the resolution levy, which is at least €70 million, will be abolished and replaced. We have also brought this together in the negotiations, so that under the outline a win-win situation, both for the working population and for the entrepreneurs. If you show a character today and here and agree to the withdrawal of VAT, there is a massive relief for the tourism industry. It is up to the ÖVP not only to speak big words before the elections, but also to show and agree on character today and here. – I ask that and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22689	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22803	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22824	Mrs National Council President! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this request has been made today and that we are voting on it. It is a good day for the apprentices in Austria – Mr Hauser has just said that – it is a good day because this request is decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] It must be imagined that this measure, which we are now introducing, is de facto exempting apprentices from boarding costs, concerns about 50 000 apprentices in Austria. Directly, about one third of the apprentices are relieved, so this is really a big measure. I myself met many apprentices who spend between €700 and €1,000 in the year of teaching for a home when they are assigned to a vocational school in another federal country. They sometimes have a really low apprentice compensation and then have to pay so much money for it. There are apprentices who make a minus at this time, and that is why it is really a measure that is simply and simply a matter of respect for the apprentices in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to thank you for taking this together today – with a few exceptions that do not go along with them. I also think that this proposal is very important for another reason. We have now seen an election campaign, which was extremely dirty, in which we as a citizen and a citizen, but also as a representative here in the house felt that the Dirty Campaign somehow dominated politics. Unfortunately, this is much too often. For this reason, many citizens also turn away from the politics and decisions we are making here. For this reason, I feel it is an inconceivably important sign, because, honestly, I feel here in Parliament too that many representatives of the major parties Unfortunately, democracy is no longer taking as seriously as it should be. I have experienced in Carinthia – I grew up in Carinthia and became politically active – as a dirty political style has led to the fact that a whole federal country is facing real massive problems today. I find that democracy – we should think about it – does not come about by suit or tie, but it only arises through tolerance and respect for each other. And this Parliament must be at the heart of this co-operation and of this democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I hope, on the one hand, that we can achieve a clean policy and, on the other hand, that there are much more such applications, which really cross the party borders – including ideological boundaries – are decided together, simple and simple, because it is right. For the apprentices, this request is simple and simple. – Thank you very much, and I hope that we will decide on the proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22890	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22912	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The apprentices in Austria are those who put very much into practice, who are the carriers of the specialist work in Austria and who make up the economic success in many sectors. I was in a company near Schärding yesterday: An apprentice has developed further and has built up a company that today can take advantage of world market leadership. This is good for Austria. We have always not taken the group of apprentices so seriously. I would also like to thank Mr Obernosterer and Mr Schellhorn. In what has been described, you have to listen: What can we do together to strengthen apprenticeship training? Mr Obernosterer, those companies that have so far taken on their responsibility and have taken over these costs for the apprentices, we do so. Those companies that have not done so, the sectors that have not made it, are now participating in their contributions to the insolvency fund, and they are right to say it so clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to express my thanks to you if you can say here that you have trained over 100 apprentices in your industry. That's a great achievement. That's what others can do, then they'll get money. I say this very clearly. The apprentice does not decide whether to complete his vocational school in a boarding school, because that is what the state government decides. It is therefore so important that this decision by the state government does not lead to the expense of the apprentice, and I am very glad that something has changed. When I started teaching in 1975, it was not possible to do the Matura with a degree in teaching. Today this is a matter of course. There are free preparation courses for the course exam today, there are free language courses – we have tried very hard. I am in contact with some of the Chambers of Commerce, for example with those in Lower Austria, we support them so that they can also give apprentices a reasonable training abroad so that they can give them specialist work. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I would like us to assume overall responsibility for this vocational training. I would like to express my express thanks to the Youth Trust Councillors. They have collected 20,000 signatures on the trade union youth, and on the last day they handed them over to me. These Youth Trust Councils discuss with them that they are part of democracy in that country. I think it is so important that these young skilled workers, the apprentices, are seen here as well. I have a request; Gabriel Obernosterer, I'm telling you this now: Please check in your team that you agree! That's what the apprentices deserve, it's important. It also helps your companies who have already worked well. I'm looking for you: Come on! I believe that this is very important for the apprentices, and it is a good day again for the working people.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22972	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e22993	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Before: It's about apprentices in the debate. Some colleagues – men only – are turning this debate in a direction that is about a completely different target group. I would simply like to see us, if we already discuss apprentices – and this happens far too rarely here in the house – to talk about them and not to include additional wage costs or the reduction of VAT. I just think this is wrong, and I wanted to say it on the spot because about 40 percent of young people in Austria opt for a lesson. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They all know the Austrian system of dual education, just to learn a part of the theory in school and the practice in the company, in the teaching workshop, wherever. This is really a great story, and as Mr Hechtl has already said, many apprentices from Austria are now involved in the competition. This is an international competition, and they simply cut off grandiose, so the restriction is a central element. As mentioned above, not every person in the city has the company and the school there, but many are in the federal states and have accordingly blocked teaching. And for blocked lessons, you can't just drive out in the morning and return in the evening, the commuting doesn't work. So it simply comes at enormous costs. Some companies support apprentices and take over these boarding costs, others do not. We simply do not want to continue to make it dependent on happiness whether someone is replacing the boarding costs, because that is simply unfair. We say: Quit it!, but also 21 155 young people say that. It has been created by the Austrian trade union youth a petition that, as I said, has been supported by 21 155 young people, because it is simply inconceivably difficult to pay up to €1 300 for boarding costs. There the apprentice compensation is gone twice, and that is simply unfair. At this point nice greetings to the union youth who is now sitting together and listening via live stream – hello at this place! Our SPÖ proposal, which calls for: Away with the boarding costs!, is to be voted today. It is extremely important for really many young people. And that's counter-financed. They also referred to: There's budget on the insolvency payment fund. It doesn't have to be knocked out of the ground so to speak, it's there. Let us now support the apprentices, let us help young people, let us relieve them! Dear ÖVP, shows the flag and supports with us our request, the request of the trade union youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23042	The next item is the report by Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23063	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! I would like to mention briefly an email from an entrepreneur from Innsbruck who has three employees and wants to offer a young girl from East Tyrol a apprenticeship in his technical office, in the teaching profession of geoinformatics. Elena from Osttirol cannot take up this apprenticeship because the vocational school is in Wels, she is a weekly student, the cost would simply be too high. This entrepreneur from Innsbruck writes to me: I would ask you, Mr President, to support this Parliamentary request for the public support - that is, through us - of the costs of the boarding school and to decide in Parliament. - Quote. It is now such a story that, I believe, those establishments in which there is no refund of boarding costs are being helped to a great extent. If, at 41 percent of all training places, we reimburse the costs for employers who are already paying, including in the construction sector, then it is a relief for those companies that are now paying these boarding costs. When we made this request on 4 October. In fact, in October, we would not have believed that it is possible to reach a majority by deadline here today. I thank all those who have contributed. I thank the Austrian trade union youth who collected 21,000 signatures in five weeks. It's really great how this place was mobilized. You know, when I learned the profession of maurer 35 years ago, we had to pay the boarding costs ourselves. There has been no provision for the costs to be taken over. Now we have some regulations, and soon we will have a 100% regulation for all apprentices in this country. That's a great appreciation. When we talk about the lack of skilled workers, of the image, of more attractiveness to teaching, nothing can contradict it. Please agree to all of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23100	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23129	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Dear sisters at the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! Once there was a time, there has been posterated: Career with teaching. – I am really proud that today in this Discussion is really once the teaching is emphasized. We are otherwise talking a lot about further education in the educational discussions. Mr Muchitsch has just mentioned the fact that we are now particularly aware of the shortage of skilled workers. Everywhere you go – now everyone is talking about being on the go in the election campaign – you can see the panels, the transparency: Employees, skilled workers, skilled women. That is why it is clear that this is an essential step; 50,000 apprentices are affected. I would also like to thank the entrepreneurs who train apprentices at this point. This is an additional burden, but of course also the opportunity to train long-term employees for the future of the company. I think Mr Worm's request for this unjust or pointless increase in VAT on gastronomy is a very essential one. We know in what a difficult situation these gastronomy companies are in the fight with the system gastronomy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] We also experience this particularly in our district of Vöcklabruck, dear Gabi Obernosterer, and you know how long we have been discussing the cooperation of family members in the Tourism Committee alone. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] What has happened with regard to the quality partnership of tourism and agriculture? We can go completely new ways, and what I have heard now in the discussion encourages me. We can go a whole new way, create Win-win situations in which all parties are preferred and through which we can stop this migration from the rural regions through which we can live truly meaningful partnerships in which all parties benefit. That is why, I believe, there are also just three letters for this point, namely: do – and implement. I believe that this is living democracy, and we will definitely support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23183	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2304/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Muchich, colleagues and a request for a separate vote by the honourable Member. Loacker. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal mentioned and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 1. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary request of Members of the European Parliament, Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 2 Z 1. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the 2304/A initiative by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues. I am looking for a positive sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt, in the version of the 2304/A initiative tabled by Members of the European Parliament. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign. – This is therefore adopted by a majority. This is the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the request at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This was adopted by a majority of the third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the withdrawal of the increase in VAT on accommodation. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[21:29:50]] 8. Point Request by Members Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the law on the recruitment of disabled persons, the Federal Disability Equality Act and the Federal Disability Act (2309/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23291	That's what we're going to do. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a period of up to 11 months. The report was published in October. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23325	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today is a good day, not only for the apprentices and for the workers in this country, but it is also a good day for about 1.3 million people with disabilities, because we are now deciding on the inclusion package with this request; I would like to stress that the Federal Minister Stöger, in the run-up to negotiations with the Vice-Chancellor, had not succeeded, but this law will be passed more or less on the proposal for initiative today. In the inclusion package, we change the disability regulation, the Federal Disability Equality Act and the Federal Disability Act. We'll do it. This – and I am really convinced, ladies and gentlemen – is a huge step towards more equal opportunities, more participation in professional and social life for people with disabilities. There will be significant improvements in the monitoring of the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and also in the enforcement of the rights of persons with disabilities, because we will upgrade the Monitoring Committee structurally and financially, and also because, above all, we are extending the association's complaint to the federal disabled lawyer and also to the complainants' association. These are milestones for me, ladies and gentlemen – and I believe they are milestones for many people with disabilities. I use this expression in the political debate very rarely, but today I want to use it. These are milestones in disability policy, especially for those who are concerned: for people with disabilities. And I am very pleased that the request I have tabled will be very, very broad. As Mr Belakovich said, in the sense of people with disabilities, thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition to the points I have already mentioned, we will also decide €90 million for professional integration. This means much, much more self-determination for people with disabilities and probably more or less participation in professional life. The funds for this will be doubled. Today, we also decide on the right to waive harassment and the right to waive and remove discrimination against people with disabilities, provided that the defendant is a large capital company. This too is a huge success, which will bring a very, very massive improvement to people with disabilities, especially for their actual living conditions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Disability policy, which I have experienced in the last eight years, is the drilling of very hard boards. It is a cross-sectional matter that affects many, many areas. And it is mainly – and unfortunately – still country-related in many areas. That is why I am convinced that there is a need for a cooperation of many actors in order to actually spread something for people with disabilities; and above all, it also needs experts on their own. I would like to thank all those who, in the run-up to this day – from the submission of the deadline request – who have contributed to the fact that this decision will receive broad approval, for its valuable support. I want to mention everyone, I hope I don't forget anyone now: I would like to thank the Disability Council, which represents over 80 organisations, BIZEPS, the disabled lawyer, ÖZIV, the Life Aid, the Self-Determined Life Initiative Austria, the Monitoring Committee, and the aid community of the blind and the weak, all of which, with their press releases, have certainly also contributed to the fact that one or another has still agreed on this important proposal for initiative, and today agrees to these important improvements for people with disabilities. We did it together. You can't do anything alone. We really did it together; All those sitting in the gallery thank you very much for that. I am very pleased about this decision because I am convinced that: Inclusion is a human right.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23388	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23410	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At this last National Council meeting, we are certainly discussing an important issue in the social field at this item on the agenda, especially when it comes to people with disabilities. Personally, the issue is also very important to me, because, in addition to the security sector, it is a central concern for me, and it is important that we engage in it accordingly. Like my previous speaker, I also believe that it is our task for those who are among the weaker in society and who need our support – especially those with disabilities – to enter, especially when it comes to participation, when it comes to participation, and especially when it comes to professional integration. Of course, this issue is of particular importance to us as an ÖVP. We know from the statistics that the unemployment rate of people with disabilities is disproportionately high compared to general unemployment and that, therefore, our efforts in the context of vocational integration into the labour market and participation in this area are increasingly important. This is simply an important point for us, and of course we support it in principle. However, as regards this next point, which is presented in red-blue coalition, we see two things as ÖVP: First of all, we believe that we cannot contribute an additional €45 million from general budget resources to this €45 million already available under the Federal Financial Framework Act. We remain true to our line, not to spend more than €470 million on general budget allocations – this is how it was combined – but to use the labour market reserve for this purpose and to take these funds from the AMS and the Ministry of Social Affairs. We therefore reject the funding from general budget. Secondly, we also believe in principle that the possibilities of the instrument of the association action to this extent, as is proposed here, cannot be borne by us. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As has been said, with this amendment we signal our approval of this important issue. And I would not like to miss the opportunity to thank our spokesperson, Mr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who, on all these issues, was an tireless fighter and brought many successes to people with disabilities. Franz-Joseph, you were a great fighter for the people with impairment here in Parliament. Thank you for your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23490	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23576	Mrs Dr. Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23598	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The inclusion package, as it stands, brings more financial resources for the labour market integration of people with disabilities. We've heard all of this. I would like to address a very different point now, because I believe that this law is being passed today, has a very essential aspect that has not yet been addressed, namely that 1.3 million people in Austria are people with disabilities, who want to share in life just as we all want to share the so-called non-inhibited people who want to live self-determined lives, who at last no longer want to be degraded to bitters, who do not want to be dependent on any social pots, but who want to live exactly the same self-determined lives as we do. I believe that this must finally become aware of all of us, so that something will change in this country. We've already heard: The unemployment rate of people with disabilities is twice as high as for all others. This is really a very worrying situation. We have compensation taxes that allow businesses to buy freely, which are far too low. We have been calling for a progressive compensation tax for years. This inclusion package is more than just a financial aid to integration into the labour market, is more than just an aid to improve discrimination, especially in systematic discrimination. It is really important to say a rethinking in the population, in the minds: Yeah, they're part of us, they're like us, they're like you and me. You may need better support in some areas, but that is the essential, and that is why I believe that this inclusion package is so necessary and so important and correct. That is why we will, of course, agree with Mr Königsberger-Ludwig's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23634	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23655	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers here at the gallery! Today's issue is a big concern to me. We are talking about people with disabilities, and we are talking about a quarter of our population directly or indirectly affected by a disability, whether they are family members or whether they are themselves disabled. We all belong to these 1.4 million people. This group of people expects from us politicians the following: equality in life. Let us stand for them and fight for them, that they may have a life like that. What I would like to say is that our requests, or in general, requests from the opposition, if they are rejected, are being discussed here in plenary, because many are being postponed, so we land in the drawer, and the population does not see how many good applications the opposition has already made and how many good applications we have already made that have landed in the drawer – very, very many good ideas. I'm very sorry they landed in the drawer. On some points, I have to say, there are already changes. Colleagues, my previous speakers have already said that. You know, the People's Procuratorate is taking part in plenary debates here. Until now, the disabled lawyer has only always, I now call it the way it is, allowed to meet in the disabled, in the social ministry service in a room, and that was it. Today it is time for the disabled lawyer to get a stage here in the house, wherever he belongs, wherever he may report and meet. The Monitoring Committee is also important with its independence. The UN Convention was also signed, ratified by our Minister for Social Affairs and we have declared binding that we are also implementing it. Disability policy, as many people often think it is a small matter, that has nothing to do with them, that has nothing to do with anything. No, unfortunately, what one simply recognizes after many discussions is that it will be forgotten. This is a cross-sectional matter, which is a matter that affects very, very many people, whether the people who live with a chronic illness, or people who have family members who live with a disability. If you look at the government agreements, you can see that many areas of disability policy have unfortunately not been implemented; unfortunately, many things have not been done. The UN Convention, which was ratified by Austria, was reviewed by the UN. 23 homeworks have been given black and red, the government. Until now, only a handful has been made – a handful! And by next year, everyone will have to be fulfilled. On the subject of budgeting and budgeting, on the EIA with regard to budgeting, because you mentioned this: So don't be angry with me, in the disability law it used to be the case that the Ministry of Social Affairs has always paid. Since the novel, it has been said that each ministry has to reserve budgetary resources for disability policy and that this money actually flows for these people. But there is no transparency as to whether and how much a ministry has invested in these areas. And these are exactly the questions that we ask and which then land in the ministries again in the drawer, because they are not answered – so no transparency, how much money is actually being spent on these people and how much is spent. It is our duty as politicians to show these people that we are there for them to be real and not to make it our own business and just to sell it. We're there to be brave to fight for these people, and not just to hop in front of the camera and say we're doing something anyway, we're there for you anyway, and then nothing to do. My colleague, Mr Kogler, has already said that it is important to accept, address and implement things. I would also like to say that there are governments that say that they want to increase pocket money in the future. I'll show you on the right side. Some parties say, yes, we just give them a little more pocket money, they should stay at home, yes, that's right. This is the worst and most false attitude you can have toward people with disabilities. What kind of attitude is that?- Oh, my God! [[Ass @info/ plain]] [[Also in sign language]] [[with the Greens.]] I hope that certain electoral promises will not be implemented by certain parties that go exactly in this direction, and for that we need it, other parties need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23750	Now, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23771	Madam President. High house! It's about respect! It's about respect for people who don't have it that easy in this society. It is about respecting that some in society need special support, but that they are part of society, that they need the same dignity and the same access to society. I have attended an event this week that celebrates 25 years of assistance to disabled people in the workplace. 25 years ago it was said that this is a spinning plant, it will not be, but it has become something, that is, that people can be helped to participate in this society, to participate in the work life, and that we can open up the social spaces, that people with disabilities, with disabilities are perceived. And I would like to admit that I myself have always been sensitive to questions that people with disabilities need, but I have still been able to learn – and I am grateful for having to learn – where we hinder everywhere, where society is disabled and where we really exclude people. For example, I learned from the simple question: How does my ministry's email address look like? BMASK doesn't understand anyone, but social minist rium you can remember – I too. That is why we have developed an understandable language. In this respect, we can all learn from each other. I now have a request: It's not about, I wrote this down now that disabled people belong to the weaker. I've become very careful. I have met a lot of people with disabilities who are very, very strong; by the way, this was a very strong speech now, I liked it. They are very, very strong, and they must also be strong in society in order to be heard. I am deeply convinced that we also need to listen more and that this is also important. I really thank Mrs. Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, because she is fighting for it because she always manages to hold this group that fights there. I've got a huge respect for all those people who work in the clubs. Today, after ten years, this is the biggest project on inclusion, disability work that we are implementing together. This package increases the means and helps. I believe that the concept of milestone is justified. It's a personal concern to me. People with disabilities also have the right that the Federal Government and the Länder do not dispute whether the aid is paid at work, the assistance for the work of the Federation, and the assistance for the leisure of anyone else, and each federal country does it differently. Actually, we should overcome this. We should overcome that, and I will do everything we can to do the same. You still need it, but you also need to understand that you are not talking to the disabled Fatherlyist, but that you take them seriously. We have said very clearly in Plan A: We want to address these issues, that is important, and I invite all parties and those who are not organized in a party to take care in their social life to ensure that people with disabilities have their place in society. It's about dignity! In this sense, I would like to thank Mr Huainigg. He has supported this with his work – he has a difficult work, he has not had it easily –. He has shown that it is also important in Parliament to open spaces. Already at the ramp in the old building, which we need, we have seen it. I would like to express my express thanks for this work. I would like you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to perhaps think again whether we should not give the disabled lawyer the right to bring an action against large companies if they are not eligible for disability. If you leave this to the individual human being that he is going against a large capital company, then you'll force people to do it. If you give the disabled lawyer the right to look at capital companies that they are opening up their businesses, so that the disabled get there, then we are taking a next step. I'm looking for you, think! It would be good to go there, and that is why I would ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23829	No one has been reported here in the word. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As there are short-term amendments or supplementary amendments and requests for separate votes, we would not be able to find a solution with a short interruption to the necessary preparation of the vote. I shall refer the vote on this item on the agenda to the time after the vote on item 11. This is what I am doing when the agenda is being completed. [[21:53:23]] 9. Point Request by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the Voluntary Law and the Family Tax Compensation Act (2308/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23875	We come to Agenda item 9. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a period of up to 11 months. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There is no wish for oral reporting, so I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Pendl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23899	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I can also welcome the representatives of the association commemorative service and of course also our spectators in front of the screens. Let me briefly say something about the social sector. I was happy in the morning, August, that you said here, that's an important matter, and I agree with you. You know the rescue service area as well as I do, and I believe that it has been shown that the fixed is to be incorporated into the law and that the deadline is over until the end of 2017. I believe that this is a right decision that we can also assess from practice, and I am very grateful for the fact that you are all involved. Madam President. You will understand that at my last plenary session and during my last speech here in the House, I do not wish to continue to spread about the matter of law, but, if it is allowed, I would like to say two or three sentences on the last two decades in which I have had the honour of working with you here in this House for our Austrians. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank you very much, but of course also the Second and Third Presidents, and also all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for the work we have done here in recent years. If I have offended someone, I apologize in every way. On and on, I am a very subject-related person who tries to get things to the point and to fight for it. I never wanted to approach anyone or even insult him. If it has happened, I apologize in every form. [[Abg. Steinhauser: No, I can't imagine that!]] We, ladies and gentlemen, could not carry out these activities if we did not have the good spirits. I always said that at the meetings. And I would really like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, Mr. Parliamentary Director, sincerely and sincerely. I would like to thank the staff of the clubs, all clubs, very much and, of course, our parliamentary staff. We always assume everything is a matter of course, no matter how late it is. We'll see this again today. Everything has to work, everyone expects everything to work, and if the mood is always that the employees have joy with us, I leave it behind. Even there we could probably learn something, Mr Minister, I would say, because it also goes in a different way. However, I would like to make a brief comment on several points that are very important to me personally. The reporting often shows a picture as if nothing would happen. I have had the pleasure or the honor of participating in it, and there have been tough negotiations. Who, besides those in the matter, has told the public that we have combined over 100 authorities in a government reform? We've carried out several police reforms. We have reformed the administrative jurisdiction. We have, and this was a wish, which I know how long has been presented here again and again, implemented the investigation committee as a minority law. The negotiations, Werner, were also not always funny, but I think we have always tried to make decisions in the sense of the Austrians and because of the needs, in all the materials that I have just mentioned, up to the state protection, although there have been discussions over and over again. [[in the direction of the Abg. Kogler]] I want to go into something where everyone thought, that's never going to happen: In November 2015 – and I would like to thank once again the speakers of all parties for the situation we have had – the national problems, the European problems and the international development were not funny – unanimously brought together a historic decision, as some have said, which includes the assessment of the security situation and the problems for the Austrian federal army. Thank you to everyone that this House has really contributed unanimously. When we think back now – two years will be in the next few days – it has also been shown that we have had the right look, the right analysis and the right decision, even though certain materials have not always been seen by everyone like that. I mean, however, that the House must also confess not only to thinking day-to-day politics, but above all to develop far-sightedness and self-confidence. If I allow myself to say the following: I have always tried to get involved in such a way that a piece of parliamentarism is strengthened. We have brought together a number of such projects from different political groups. Mr Auer, today we spoke briefly about this: We did something once, there were all in the Republic against it, and we still brought it together. I would really like to give you all the way to the future: As a parliamentarian, we also need self-confidence. There are three state powers in the Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We don't need to cut out left and right without interruption. It would be my request, my wish for the future: Not against the administration, not against jurisdiction, but for parliamentarianism! We don't always need others, because we can do it, I think, even ourselves. Therefore, I may wish you all and your families personal well-being. I wish the house much success, even if it is in a spare quarter. May the construction go quickly and without accidents for the employees over the stage! I can close it and thank you again. Live Parliamentaryism! Live our wonderful Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23954	Mr Pendl, the great applause has shown how much your activity has been appreciated in these two decades far beyond all party borders. I think I can say in our name: We wish you all the best of all! Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e23984	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning of my contribution to the debate, I should like to table an amendment tabled by Mr Muchich, Mr Strasser, Mr Strasser and Mr Cotts on Amendment No 2308/A concerning a Federal Act amending the Voluntary Law and the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967. In essence, the amendment concerns the period between training and the voluntary social year. The amendment aims to ensure that family aid can also be granted for this period. What is still being done in this amendment? – Mr Otto Pendlhat has already mentioned it: It is a matter of converting the term of office for the voluntary social year into an indefinite solution among the rescue service organisations; it is about increasing funds for commemorative, peace and social services abroad; it is about providing additional resources for information work on the preparation of the Nazi period; and it is about that the voluntary social year will also be represented in the voluntary council in the future. However, I would also like to use the item on the agenda to do two things: Firstly, I would like to make a little advertising for the voluntary social year. I am district head of the Red Cross, and we have very positive experiences with it, especially because with this voluntary social year young people have the opportunity to find their professional orientation and determine whether social work is exactly what they want to do in the future. It is aimed at young people between the ages of 18 and 24, you get pocket money, the family allowance and is insured. So it's a really exciting tool to find out what you might want to do in the future. Especially we rescue service organizations are of course very pleased when someone makes the voluntary social year. When we debate the Voluntary Act, of course it is also a good opportunity to talk about the honorary office in Austria. The figures you can read in the volunteer report are indeed impressive. In Austria, more than three million Austrians do volunteer work, voluntary work, which is 720 million hours a year, which corresponds to about 400 000 full-time equivalents and a money volume of 16 billion euros. If I talk to the volunteers in the region and ask what they need from politics, then – and I would like to hold on to this very appreciatively – you will not get an answer in the sense: We want money for our work!, but there are only two things that volunteer: Frames conditions so that they can live up to their voluntary work as unbureaucratically as possible, and, as the volunteers always say, a little appreciation would be really nice. I can take a little step in the footsteps of Otto Pendlstreit, who always makes this very convincing, and would like to take this opportunity to thank all of us in Austria for this opportunity. As I said, there are over three million people. For example, excellent work is being done in the sports clubs in the youth sector. It's our cultural associations, our music clubs, but it's also our voluntary fire brigades that work with a truly high level of commitment, our rescue service organizations, but also smaller organizations and associations – sometimes two or three people find themselves together and form a non-profit association. This work is immeasurably important for our Republic. From this place a great thank you for it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24041	Thank you. The Magistrate. The application submitted by hanger is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24150	The next speaker is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24171	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Voluntary Law certainly belongs to those laws that can be taken as a symbol for drilling hard boards. I can remember the organizations, the Greens, myself and many colleagues. Members and colleagues have been constantly talking about the need for a voluntary law. Now there is the Voluntary Law, and that is also good. It has also developed well, because only in the following legislative period has the Voluntary Act become a financial and legal guarantee for our important foreign services, memorial services and international memorial services, which we as Austria need to support financially and importantly. It was a success when the foreign and commemorative service for women was opened. This was a really long and lengthy debate: Women can do the memorial service anyway, and men should do it in the context of civil service. – No, it was important to secure him financially and to provide women and men with the same opportunity to do a foreign service, a memorial service. This is our success, too, because it was our requests that were decided in the final effect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can still remember that I told you at the time that it is important to increase the financial framework and to add more organisations, such as the Blue Light organisations. I am glad that at my last meeting, as a Member of Parliament, I can also decide on this. But people, quite honestly: You could listen to us greener more often than not, then it didn't need any change of law and revisions constantly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last two legislative periods were more political and personal than intense: the debates on children's rights in the Constitution – there are now, but still not enough, but it is better than nothing at all –; the many civil service lawyers; In principle, commemorative and commemorative policy; the question of military duty, which all of us have worked very intensively; in my second legislative period, foreign and development policy, beginning with the Ukraine crisis, a crisis in which none of us knew how it will actually go out, which is still very difficult to estimate; For many, many years, Syria has been a place not only of war, but also of many refugees, with our entire policy simply focusing on how Austria actually deals with human and human rights-based refugees; the US with Trump; and the constantly growing climate change and its impact. But not only that: I was allowed to introduce two healthy girls in the last two legislative periods, two children who are now four and six years old and have grown up in this system. It is a system that distinguishes us as a Member of Parliament, on the one hand, but on the other hand is not very family-friendly: constantly to hotten the calendar of dates and the smartphone, the iPad, the computer, from one date to another, in between possibly pick up the daughters from the kindergarten or from the school. It's all tearing down. My priority has always been whether at federal, constitutional or private level, to respect children's rights. I am now able to say: My children now have the right to their mommy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With what I wish, I would also like to say a few words of thanks: What I wish for, Petra Bayr, is a real committee for development cooperation. Development, security, peace, fair trade, sustainable and sustainable policies with countries of the global south also needs a genuine committee in this Parliament and not just a subcommittee. I can only very much suggest to the honourable Member during the next legislative period, The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second wish is to see the foreign operations of the Austrian federal army in fact as a peace and foreign policy. It needs more women, the skills of women in the Austrian federal army. Especially in the new challenges, it is necessary to actually involve women in the Austrian federal army. Now I would also like to appeal to you once again to actually make the connection of foreign operations to the EU and UN and not to enter into bilateral agreements with individual countries in the future. We're part of the UN, that's our peace organization. We are part of the European Union, and as a neutral Austria, a federal army needs to be connected precisely in these spectras. It needs dialogue for peace and development. That was, I think, my credo as an foreign politician. Unfortunately, it is not here now, but I would also like to thank Christine Muttonen, who was elected chairman of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. There was clearly the shoulder clasp of all. Then I would like to thank the foreign-political speakers Reinhold Lopatka and Josef Cap, but also Georg Strasser and Kathi Kucharovich, who are actually carrying out the great North-South project with Zambia with great effort and effort, despite the many work. Otto Pendl, we will continue to meet at the Federal Parliamentary Commission. I am very pleased that I can bring in what I have learned and what I can do. Thanks to my friends Christiane Brunner, Brigit Treasure and Ruperta Lichtenecker! It is also possible to find and have friends in politics in the long term. Thanks to the Green Club – no question! And because it has to be said again: Thanks to Eva Glawischnig, who since 2008, after Alexander Van der Bellen, has taken over the greens in a difficult phase and has been extremely successful. She led and took us all. I would also like to thank Alexander van der Bellen, who was my mentor at the beginning of my parliamentary work and taught me a lot. I wish you all the best! Think of what is necessary, not only of children's rights, but of all human rights that are indivisible, of the effects of climate change and of what we can do about it, and of all the children of this earth who deserve a better life!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24264	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill, I would like to thank you and wish you all the best for your new life span with your children. - Good luck! Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24289	Madam President. High house! It is nice that there is only Pro-Redner on this subject, I am glad – dear memorial servants, that is also a good sign that this is so. I'll have the volunteer fair in the weekend. Vienna opened and saw how colorful the activities of the volunteers in Austria are. Much has been said about it. I thank you for your broad support for this change. That is good, and I would like – the day has long been – to take me to all the volunteers who have been in Many areas work and often have long days, thank you. I believe that this is also very important from the Federal Government's point of view. You bring in colorfulness. In many areas of society, you have the opportunity to develop something new. You're innovative. You are also ambassadors of a modern Austria abroad, this is also important, and you are also committed to critically questioning the history of our country. I am grateful that it has become possible to ensure today that the Red Cross or other services can make the voluntary social year. That has already been said. In this sense, the 3.5 million people in Austria who are volunteering: Thank you for that! You are sure of mine and the appreciation of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24328	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. [[22:1620]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2308/A by Mrs Muchich, ladies and gentlemen. To this end, Members of the European Parliament, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Straster, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Muchitsch, Dipl.-Ing. Straster, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1 and 2. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with its title and receipt, as amended by the 2308/A initiative, of Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask for an important sign upon consent. – This is also unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also like to ask for approval in third reading. The draft law is therefore unanimously adopted at third reading. [[22:17:45]] 10. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the inequality of treatment of women in the calculation of emergency aid by amending the unemployment insurance law (ALVG), BGBI 1977/609, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBI. I No. 118/2015, abolished (1366/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24405	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has had a period of up to 10 years. The report was published in October. There is no word for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24442	Madam President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, dear sisters and dear spectators! I wish you a good evening, with a lot of stress for the employers and the business location. I wish for a good evening, with many new expenditures that increase our deficit and thus burden our youth in the long term. I wish you a nice good evening, where you can see what can happen if the electoral behaviour leads to SPÖ and FPÖ finding majority voting with green support. We can enjoy a very interesting evening together today. On the subject: We are now talking about the change in emergency aid to which a Green request has been submitted and is on the agenda today by setting a deadline with the help of FPÖ and SPÖ. It is argued that emergency aid should be seen as an insurance benefit in such a way that everyone has a claim, no matter what income the partners have. In my opinion, however, the emergency aid system is a social benefit. [[Abg. Schwentner: But that's your opinion! ... Constitutional Court!]] - That's my opinion. Can I say my opinion? [[Abg. Belakovich: But there is a knowledge...!]] It is about the fact that, when you are unemployed and unemployed, you are able to work and in an emergency situation, there is an emergency aid. Insurance benefit: There, too, is always handled with different things. For example, in unemployment insurance there are many insured persons who have no chance of ever getting a payout. I am thinking of the auxiliary farmers or of people who are still self-employed in addition to an employee relationship, for whom it is compulsory to pay, but without any payment. With regard to social benefits, I already believe that the partnership can be taken into account. We all push into partnerships and have a lot of discussions about what a partnership is and how it is recognised. A partnership commits one to go through thick and thin together. Accordingly, if one loses one another's job, there is the possibility in this case too. [[Abg. Schwentner: This also concerns people who have not married!]] Of course, it's also difficult: If you have easy access to emergency aid, you may not want to start work as quickly as possible. So there are some things that speak for it. But the reason why we do not agree with this request today is actually the cost. The costs are indicated in the calculation of this application by € 85 000, which is then calculated in such a way that at the end only € 15 million per year is left because otherwise there are so many counterparts. [[Call the Greens: No, millions!]] This is a very interesting discussion: if you spend 85 000 €, no, 85 million € that you give it back. [[Abg. Schwentner: Maybe you read the right request!]] The calculations of BMF and AMS amount to €160 million. Accordingly, we do not want to support this today. Of course, we understand the proposal and there are very many individual cases where it is very difficult. The system as a whole belongs to an evaluation. It cannot, however, be as it is currently happening that the parliamentary procedure, the request for a deadline, the debate will be stopped and these things will be decided in such a short time. We will therefore not give our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24542	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24563	Madam President. Federal Minister! Whether the right or the wrong application, it doesn't matter: The ÖVP once again shows its true face. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] With women's policy, you've got very little to nothing to do with it. With social policy, you have very little to nothing to do with it. What we decide today and now is truly a women's and social policy milestone, which you have for years refused to approve. I am very happy in the spirit of women, in the sense that women should be able to live a self-determined, financially independent and non-violent life. That's an important thing. People are not cost points – this is also written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Just briefly: Emergency aid is a follow-up to unemployment benefit. That is, people who have paid into the system can claim this connectivity. It may then be requested if the reference of unemployment benefit is exhausted. For a duration of up to 52 weeks, it must be re-applyed each year. The amount of this emergency aid amounts to a maximum of 95 percent of the previous basic amount of unemployment benefit, but it is going to be – and now what we are going to do against the votes of the ÖVP today, because I think this is really embarrassing – the salary of the partner is counted, this salary is included, and that is exactly what we want to abolish. As a result, emergency aid can logically be reduced to zero in the extreme case. The average height – please listen! – is around 24,60 € daily. I believe that it is very important not to extend the dependence on the partner – usually the woman – any longer. That means no more dependence. In good days as well as in bad days, this is a beautiful saying, but there are also many bad days. I think that women's right to own life assurance is to be placed in front of an idyll as you describe it. That is why what we decide today is a milestone, a real milestone. As we have said, we have not succeeded in years, but today we will succeed. It is also true that the greatest loss of the billing of the partner's income to the emergency aid strengthens the purchasing power. So it's not just drama. It will be so that it will stimulate consumption in the longer term. This will certainly lead to a continued positive employment effect. That's all in all: It helps the women. It's social policy right what we're doing. It ultimately also helps the economy in Austria. As an economic party, you should take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24603	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24621	We NEOS will not agree to the request. However, I would also like to explain the whole matter better than Mr Groiß did. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: It won't be better, I'm afraid!]] First of all, I am concerned with the approach I really want to criticise from a basic point of view. This concerns, on the one hand, the cost issue and, on the other hand, how it was generally. We now have so many things here that we have discussed in the short term before the election, in which I very much believe that the very basis for the cost assessment contained in the proposal is actually almost the limit of ours. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is simply unreasonable to choose such an approach to this issue. [[Abg. Schwentner: Is it not because it is in the request...!]] We have the cost question on the one hand. AMS CEO Johannes Kopf himself says that this would cost 160 million €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] The application states: “It costs € 15 million in fact. Each year, in order to end this phenomenon of very significant gender-related disadvantage of women once and for all.” – This is what is in the application. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens]] I don't know where this number is, it's not right. [[Abg. Schwentner: In the request we vote on, 160 million € are inside!]] It is then also about economic effects which you wish for from this proposal, which would ultimately reduce the cost again. [[Abg. Honey: No, that's not an economic request...!]] Economic effects are the same voodoo economy, which, of course, also uses the EIAs in their savings proposals when it comes to rehabilitating the government budget. [[Calls to the Greens.]] However, I am not only disturbed by the logic of choice of sugar behind the whole, in which we will be faced with real costs that are not currently affordable, but also by the basic principle behind them. I may well understand the argument that this is about the independence of individual people. But then I think that we need a different approach to the social system in principle, and there we have NEOS a different proposal. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You are too cold socially!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, Hartz IV you want!]] When it comes to independence, we have the proposal of liberal citizenship. Liberal citizens' money works in such a way that every person in Austria has a right to it – as well as the right to minimum security – but the money is also paid in proportion if you get back into the labour market. The problem we have in many places in Austria with social benefits is also that there is almost an indirect incentive to stay inside a service, because one immediately falls out if one is over the low or similar limit. We find that unfair. We believe that social networks must also be a springboard, precisely because we believe that our own income and, above all, income to come out really creates independence and a self-determined life. Social networks must therefore be there to enable and facilitate the return to independence, to a self-determined life. In fact, this must also be able to provide a social benefit. That can be the ones we currently have in Austria, but not. That is why we would urge that emergency aid and minimum security should also be brought together and that the whole system should be converted to our citizens' money model, so that it is clear that someone who is also going to work can always be better off than someone who receives only a citizen's money, for example, with a part-time job or even at a time of 10 hours. This should be a direct incentive to return to a self-determined life. The honest course also has to do with financial independence. I know this is a concern for many here. It is also a matter of concern to us, but we have a different approach, and that must also be accepted. I don't think it's okay to say afterwards – as was the case with my previous speaker – that something is embarrassing. However, I really have to say that I cannot understand the EIA's statement because there are better explanations of why one can reject this request. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But this is embarrassing!]] I think I have now also argued this rigorously. There are enough arguments to reject this request. One is the cost issue and the other is the approach to social systems in general, and there we simply have another one, sharing the objective of independence and self-determination very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24773	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24795	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gamon, your approach includes a mistake of thought: Emergency aid is an insurance benefit and not a social benefit, even if it is the feeling of Mr Groiß. In this respect, there is an awareness from the VfGH that this is an insurance benefit. We have to take note of this, you too have to take note of it. That's once the one mistake you've had. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The other mistake is: You are, of course, right, the very large part of those women who are in unemployment who are in need of emergency aid would like to get back into the work process, but you know that we have unemployment rates that are as high as ever before in the Second Republic. It is not true that people are at home voluntarily and live voluntarily with the little they get. That's just the way it is. Then it is also said that emergency aid is calculated at the partner's income, and I tell you – I am anything but a woman's rightholder – that it is also contrary to gender, and it is also true for men who are in need and whose women are working. [[Abg. Schwentner: That's exactly what more men are about!]] So this applies to both sexes and has nothing to do with women's rights. But what it has to do with it is, on the one hand, self-determination and independence, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, and above all – that is the very important thing for us – poverty reduction. As you have described this, one must emphasize: The people who are in the special emergency are not people who get huge amounts and then make the money or make big long-distance trips with it, but this money goes into direct consumption for everyday goods. This money's only there for this, because nothing else goes out. It's also been removed a little while ago, when you hear: Well, they're supposed to stop and they have to. – These people fight, they fight every day. That's where families hang, that's where children hang, and there's a fight every day. These are families who on the 20th often do not know how they can afford the food for the last ten days. I think we also have a responsibility towards these people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we take this seriously, then we finally have to take steps, and I am glad that this will succeed today. But I also say that there must be further steps because we have a similar problem in the pension system in the area of compensation allowances. It is also true that the partner pension is charged, and it is really the women who are affected – much more than in the case of emergency aid. This is also an injustice if the services of the partner are always taken into account somewhere, but the free-of-charge benefits that women in the field of families, child rearing and, above all, in the field of care – which has been explosively increased in recent years – are not taken into account and evaluated at all. It has to do a society that calls itself social. That is why I am glad that we are taking this step today.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24843	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e24868	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Emergency aid is, as you have already stressed, an insurance benefit in the process, and it is a matter of paying out this insurance if there is an emergency. For example, if in a partnership or a marriage of the man earns €2 300 net and the emergency aid is nevertheless paid out, you can't explain to me where the emergency is. [[Abg. Honey: Yes, with the woman!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – No, I believe that emergency aid is really intended for those people who need to get on their own and who otherwise have no way to finance themselves. [[Abg. Honey: If she is not married, she has no right to entertainment!]] - Then she gets it! – If she's not in any partnership, she'll get it. [[Abg. Honey: She has no legal claim!]] If a man's not in a partnership, he'll get it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Schwentner.]] So please do not put it as if it were something that would threaten people in their existence, for that is not at all true! [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you even know what it is about?]] If the man or the partner deserves so little that they can't live on it, she'll get it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] So please do not put it that way and please do not put it that way, especially because it is not just the women! – Yes, it is because she has her partner who cares for her, or because he has a partner who takes care of him. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It's about...!]] [[Abg. Honey: She has no legal claim!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I mean, that's the sense of a partnership that you keep together and sometimes help each other. [[Further calls to SPÖ and Greens.]] – I don’t know what you have for views of partnerships, but that’s the conventional, quite normal approach of a partnership, that you can also help in times when you don’t feel so well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If both have too little money, they get it. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So don't pretend to take away money from people and as if they should starve! [[Further calls to the Greens.]] – May I speak? The thing we really don't want to do – and I'm not particularly interested in – is that it's only against women. That's not true at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] The latest statistics show: Last year, 2016, 21 500 people have been reduced the emergency aid – not deleted – because they had a partner or a partner, of which 60 percent were women. [[Abg. Schwentner: More and more men are affected!]] If you look at the figures this year, then it is true that out of 167 000 emergency workers are 65 000 women and 100 000 men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, this is shocking because more and more people are unemployed!]] So don't tell me that's a woman's policy measure, because that's not true!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25064	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25086	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how far you're from real life! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I just talked to a young woman last night, an academic. She lost her job, was unemployed at first, and then fell into emergency aid. She didn't get anything, nothing. She said to me: Judith, I never want to get into this situation again, that I am my partner with whom I happen to be under a Live at the roof to ask for a pocket money, I have to ask my partner if I can leave in the evening if I can go out in the evening. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] That's absurd! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The idea of demanding Claudia Gamon – which is just not there – is not a very new social policy, because 20 years ago it was one of the essential demands in women's people's desire. I am very pleased that, together with Gabi Heinisch-Hosek and Josef Muchitsch, we have made this amendment – which is present and is introduced here and which is also supported by FPÖ today. After 20 years – there were a number of green social speakers as well as social speakers and women’s speakers who have repeatedly demanded and tried this over and over again – we can finally implement it. I am pleased that it is so far today that no one who is in this misguided situation will be dependent on the emergency aid and will also be dependent on the income of partners or partners. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Only to explain those who may be further away from this reality of life: There are more and more people – including more and more men – in Austria long-term unemployed. That means, every three and a half years, on average, one is 130 days unemployed – 130 days, each and every one of us. Unfortunately, unemployment has become normal. To bring people in this state into a really difficult situation, I think, unbearable. I am really very happy for all those people who write to me every day since I was busy on this subject that this situation is history. I'm glad we did this together today. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] One more €85 million in the application: We have improved this due to data from the Ministry of Social Affairs. I am a humanities scientist, but so much do I understand from the economy that what these people get into their wallets is also spent immediately. This does not remain on any account or on any savings book, but it needs to live directly, it therefore flows into the economy. I think that's how much I've understood. [[Abg. Steinhauser: What the short saves goes on Seychelles!]] - That's right. I've understood that in the meantime, and I'm really glad we did it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25159	Thank you. The one from Deputies Mag. The application submitted by Schwentner reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25367	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25390	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Wöginger: (in the direction of FPÖ) You are ruining the state!]] I have experienced people who have come to me and have said: I can't even live somewhere, I'm gonna be homeless, because if someone picks me up, I'll have a charge for emergency aid. – This rule has led to homelessness! I say it again: Emergency aid is a service you get because you have paid contributions. You've paid contributions! I love it today: If there was a sense that one had ended this term of office earlier, then because of this decision that today this time window is coming up to make this decision; it is worth me having a campaign earlier. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Bravo!]] I thank you – it is not always easy to have an opposition – for the constructive opposition. I am glad that the Greens have this request in Parliament today because they can be used today. That too is important, and I am glad that we bring it together. I would also like to point out very clearly that we are giving help to people in Austria and that we are starting from another human image, namely the human image that every person has a claim for himself – I believe that is important – to income. We'll make sure today. We change the human image that one depends on others that one has family structures as the basis of social policy which has not worked a hundred years ago and which do not work at all today. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Today, we have also ensured the individual right of people to income. This is a very qualitative step, and that is very important to me. The second thing I'm very pleased with is: We grant to all those who have been told about Hartz IV, € 1 and what I know what everything has spoken, we give this way of thinking, this human image today also a rejection. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Love – I say that so clearly – voters! At this point, you can see what kind of human image the parties have in Austria. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is almost a green recommendation now!]] I would like to thank you for having a majority here. Social democracy has always called for its own development, its own income. I have looked at the social report as a social minister, resulting in such a great difference in income between men and women also in Austria. When it comes to emergency aid, it has been shown that this is an example of why women have fewer incomes, especially through partner accounting. To change this today makes something clear: Dear voters, look at what is happening today, and make use of your right to vote on Sunday! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25470	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats so that we can come to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment No 1366/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and others included in the bill. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schwentner, Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the Magnificents' own-initiative amendment 1366/A. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, included draft law, title and receipt, as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Schwentner, Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is accepted by a majority. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] – The draft law requires a third reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore adopted by a majority of the majority at the third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[22:45:48]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, concerning measures relating to the health scandal of Kirchhetten (2326/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25558	This leads us to the 11th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of up to 10 years was granted to the Health Committee. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There is no wish for an oral report to be made available to me, and this is what you are talking about, Madam President, Dr Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25586	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a serious issue: It's about the fact that there's been a care scandal in Kirchhette. This happened about a year and a half ago. But we still don't know more. The prosecutor's office is still investigating. There's no time for a possible charge. We don't know if there's going to be any charge at all. That means that this case is floating over us, and I know he's made a lot of hits. Many have also thought about it, because there are reports again and again, especially about the People's Procuratorate, who speak of abuses in nursing facilities. I think there must be a difference: Mistakes are one thing, which means that patients are often put to bed very early because there is a lack of personnel. Of course, a scandal in the sense of a sadistic quaeling of patients has a completely different quality. It even told the Minister of Health on the weekend that not all legal possibilities were used here. We know that of these five caregivers who were released in Kirchhette a year and a half ago, two found a new job in Vienna. These have been released a few days ago, precisely because of the fact that they are involved in the case of Kirchhetten, without any real accusations in Vienna, without even knowing whether and when there is a charge and whether there will ever be a conviction. I understand all those who react emotionally, but I believe that it is now wrong to bring in quick shots, to go in with motions for resolutions and to request an immediate ban on the basis of an advertisement. What do we do with it? – The care profession is a really strenuous, heavy profession. If, on the basis of an advertisement, we now ensure that caregivers are no longer able to work in their profession, and after a year and a half or two, it may appear that this ad was completely unfounded: Then who's going to stand up for the damage? That means, I think we should be careful not to open the fortification door and gate. I'm trying to break this down now: If any Member of Parliament against which an advertisement is issued were to lose his mandate – even if it turns out at some point – what would we have to do with it? Especially in the nursing sector, which is a very sensitive area, it is often such that relatives are dissatisfied, cannot deal with the situation that perhaps the mother, the grandmother, the grandfather is seriously ill, is at the end of his life. There are relatives who may feel guilty because the old, dying person is now being cared for in a home. So there are many reasons for people showing caregivers at all, and there are problems today again and again. This has nothing to do with a real scandal. I think if we tighten these laws now, if in the future every ad leads to the caregivers getting a professional ban, then we do nothing good to the caregivers. Then we send out a signal that is fatal! I am convinced that far more than 90 percent, probably more than 99 percent of all caregivers do good work, strive in their profession. They are certainly also overly demanding, which is related to many external and internal factors. But they try not to torture their patients. They strive to provide the best and most professional care. I don't think these people deserve to go into politics now and say: There's an ad, and you lose your job once. Because what happens then? Then they have two years, three years, until they are, as it were, rehabilitated. Who would be in favour of the loss of income? – People are professionally broken, and partly private. That is why we will not give our consent to these amendments, which I know are well-intentioned, but the opposite of good is often well-intentioned. I think it is of course more demanding to take care of them. The People's Procuratorate is also more strongly required to really review possible abuses. We think a law-enhancement is the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25646	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25667	I think, ladies and gentlemen, that many of you will have gone the way I did: I was speechless when the suspicions about these abuses of caregivers in the Kirchhetten nursing home became public. I have been really shocked that, I say so, such sad sadists are still boasting about social media of their atrocities and, as you have said, as Mrs Belakovich, they are also discrediting entire professional groups. In this whole discussion, I suffer the thousands of people working in the care sector who do great, sacrificing work on people in our society 365 days a year who urgently need their help. And I see it a little differently, because I think it is precisely because of this that we urgently need action so that such incidents cannot repeat. I am absolutely right in that, Mrs Belakovich, that it is a very delicate matter to prove someone with a professional ban and perhaps to introduce the work force to the prangler. But it cannot, in turn, be the case that a professional ban on nurses may only be pronounced after a criminal sentence. This is the case, because the first suspect moments came to the public almost on the day just a year ago, then over the “ZIB 2”. So far, the judiciary has not filed any charges because the excuse was needed again: Well, we have to wait for a medical opinion. But that can't be it right now! For these sadists were not even taken into U-port at the time, on the grounds that they had already been released from the former employer and therefore no longer pose a risk of crime. However, the main accused - which has been rightly cited - has continued to work in another private home as a caregiver, because because of the gap there is no professional ban for caregivers. Personally – I say this quite openly – because my 88-year-old mother is also in a nursing home, afraid and afraid of the thought that because of the current legal situation there might be a caregiver who, perhaps for years, as was the case in concrete circumstances, had gone sexually to the patient, beaten her and then photographed her naked, because the new employer did not know all these incidents at all. It is precisely that with today's motion for a resolution it is necessary to propose as soon as possible a bar so that such cases can no longer be repeated in Austria. We therefore introduce, among other things, the information requirement for prosecutors that further information be passed on to the competent authorities on criminal proceedings against health and social professionals; but there must also be better information opportunities for current and future employers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25714	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25735	Allow me to say little about today's request because I am now giving my last speech. My last speech is after 23 years of belonging to Parliament, while at the same time allowing me to shape the health policy of the ÖVP for 23 years, In addition to active ordination, which I have continued to operate. My guiding principle – and I am proud that I have spent it wherever I could participate – was a health policy for all, regardless of age and income, because these are, in addition to medical treatment, essential factors that lead to a longer or shorter life. After all, these are 11.8 years when you are very poor and have a very low degree of education. As a politician, I have heard very often: No, Rasinger, you as a doctor, we don't need that, there's a lot of unnecessary and inefficient, doctors are bad. – But most of the time people who have never been sick usually say that. Once you are affected by a disease, you know what fate is. Then you depend from one second on the other that people as politicians have created a good system, because in one minute you can't build a system, you can't spell beds, no helicopters. You just need a good system. In my opinion, we have a very good system in Austria, in which I was allowed to participate for 23 years. But you also need absolute trust in doctors, in caregivers – this shows today’s request – you also need good politicians with heart. I have to say quite honestly, I have experienced a lot, I have also experienced very, very many engaged people in the ministries and in the cash registers. Finally, it was always a desire to do something good. Where do we actually stand internationally? – I can tell you, I know virtually all the systems in the world, and we can be proud that, in my opinion, we are among the best five systems in the world. Last weekend I was in Rome, and I was scared: There was a beggar, I looked at him closer, and he had a massive melanoma on the cheek – something you don't see in Austria anymore. At the same time, a patient's family called me, saying, Should we let the mother operate with a minimally invasive intervention at the heart at 92 years of age, the chance being 85 percent? – Of course we will operate on them! I'm grateful that we don't make a grade for age or money. Anyone who has been on vacation knows what that means: Quickly to Austria when you're sick! Should we afford that? – I think the question does not arise in such a rich country. We spend € 3 to 4 billion less than Germany or Switzerland on comparable systems. I think none of us want to go to Holland or England. So the question doesn't really ask. We doctors – I am a doctor and I am also proud to be a doctor – should be a strong voice. I think we should also be very empathetic, with high skill, but also care for our patients with a lot of time. I don't deny problems at all. I've had to face enough problems as a politician, make enough laws. Some were good, some were less good. But I say, of course, we have problems. Too many people are in the hospital because we have too few specialists outside. We lack cancer specialists with cash register contract, child psychiatrists, psychiatrists, pain therapists et cetera. We have a huge lack of home doctor, which is a problem that threatens to break into us like a thunderstorm. 40 percent less payment, this will not be in the long run. A third of the young graduates of a medical study leave Austria, yet we make up three times as many as Harvard, so there's something going on. not working conditions. A third complains of burn-out symptoms and says the bureaucracy takes away time for the patients. I have been involved in all these issues, and I am also grateful that people have given me confidence. Erhard Busek brought me into politics, Görg always gave me confidence, and he was my great model. But without good employees like my staff, Philipp Hartig, I couldn't have done all this next to the ordination. I had very great counterparts, for example Gabi Kotzegger from SPÖ, but I also had nice colleagues. I have to say quite honestly: Erwin Spindelberger, Dagmar Belakovich, colleague Mückstein, colleague Loacker were very constructive partners – hat off! Finally, I have to thank all doctors, nurses and other medical professionals who perform high quality daily under time pressure. Finally, I quote a sentence by Schopenhauer: “Health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing.” – That’s why we should all work in our own interest in a very good health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25814	Mr. Dr. Rasinger, you too! The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25839	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that such a thing as at the Kirchhette nursing home and also the incidents before it can never be repeated again. As politicians and politicians, we must do everything we can to help prevent this. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I am therefore glad that, together with SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS, we are making a request that the public prosecutor's office has an information obligation to the district authorities in the future, which has not happened in this case. In the future, this can hopefully prevent someone like these caregivers who was active in this one home from tormenting sadistic, brutally caring people. We would have preferred the measures to be laid down in professional law in order to prohibit a provisional ban on the profession. I believe that this would be a clearer and clearer solution than the decree that has now been issued by the Federal Minister for Health – but after all, we agree that this should not happen, never happen again. I am now submitting the request: Total amendment by Judith Schwentner, Erwin Spindelberger, Gertrude Aubauer, Gerald Loacker, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a draft law, the 1. in addition to the professional regulations for health and care professions, an obligation for the public prosecutor to provide information to the competent authorities of the professional jurisdiction on criminal proceedings against members of the health and social professions; 2. and in such cases better information opportunities for current and future employers. In addition, the monitoring mechanisms in the field of care are to be revised and clarified together with the countries, nurses and the public prosecutors. Furthermore, the Federal Government is asked to inform the competent authorities responsible for professional competence again in an appropriate manner of the possibility existing under the applicable professional and procedural regulations, which provide for the withdrawal of professional qualifications due to lack of confidence in the event of a risk of delay.” The request has been submitted, I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e25911	I can confirm this, Madam President. The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26009	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26031	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is deeply shocking what should have happened in a nursing home in Kirchstetten. I think we all feel a physical shudder when we hear about defenseless people who are exposed to abuse. But shuddering alone is, of course, too little – we need urgent action, therefore today this joint request. The crucial question is: Can family members trust that their family members in nursing homes are well removed? What can we do to prevent any abuses? What do we need? – We need clear, clear rules, much of which has already been said. We need better information, especially where it makes sense. If there is a criminal procedure, information should be provided to the competent professional supervisory authorities. A new employer should, of course, be better informed if it is relevant to the case. There is a need for a very difficult balance in individual cases, I would also like to ask you, Mrs Belakovich, to ensure that someone is not wrongly accused. Caregivers bear a very high responsibility, very often they are under enormous time pressure. Thousands of nursing workers in Austria are doing excellent work, and I am very grateful to all of them at this point for their commitment to the benefit of the Austrians! If older spectators may be concerned about the quality of nursing homes, they should be told: These concerns are unfounded! In general, we have a very high quality in care in Austria. This high quality is, of course, still to be ensured, which is a very important task. A major concern for all Members who will be members of the next National Council: Please continue to work for the expansion of hospice and palliative care! That's a big concern to me personally. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you all very much: Thank you for this constructive collaboration, many great experiences, many great experiences and many good joint solutions – thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26074	Mrs Aubauer! Thank you also for your cooperation in this House and all the good for the future! The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26100	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! If one hears something like these incidents in Kirchhette, that there are old people, the people, defenseless people being abused and abused, then of course all the alarm bells have to ring. It is quite clear that we need to take care of how these information systems are built. Whether the prosecutors' obligation to provide information is sufficient, further discussions should be held. I mean, that's a system that you have to look at, among other things, the overload of the nursing staff and whether the care key plays a role. Today, however, it is good and right, and I would say, even facilitating that there should now be this information requirement. For me too, this is the farewell speech: It was a very exciting and challenging time. I would like to thank all my colleagues here in the House very much, especially those who worked in health policy and in women's policy. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Green Club, especially the employees, and all the people outside: the representatives of the health professions, especially the Green Doctors and the patients, who through their reports, how they are doing in the healthcare sector and how it really looks outside in practice, provide the information we need to be politically active here. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] During this period of service, we had a long loop around primary supply – I also suppose it a little bit as my success that is now no longer foreseen for profit-oriented companies to be operators of primary supply facilities. I have also talked a lot and often about the fact that mentally ill people are still stigmatized compared to physically ill people – I hope to have created a lot of consciousness so that there will be progress in this area in the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Health care is facing major challenges. We have now also read again and heard that many people complain about the two-class medicine and that they feel it more and more clearly. I wish health policy and health care courageous reforms and a determined fight against two-class medicine, so that health and, above all, the best possible health care will not depend on the small extra you can afford only if you pay it out of your own pocket. Thank you to everyone, and all the best for the future National Council!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26159	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank you very much for your cooperation in this so important institution of parliamentary democracy – thank you very much and very much for the future! The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26185	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about this care area, we know that people are affected in their most delicate, sensitive phase of life, often also in their most intimate phase of life. It is therefore the highest responsibility that all those who are concerned directly care for people – at all levels: in the administration, in the structures that have to stand behind it, up to control. There is one important point, and I believe that all of us, namely to give security: Security for the people concerned, but also security for the family, and thus security for an entire society that bears responsibility towards us. One thing has to be said here: It is good work that has been done so far, at all these levels, so I think it was important that we make an addition to this issue. People should not be unsure that new ways will be taken, but that this measure will be coordinated on a particular occasion. It was therefore also important to document that we will take this decision in a very broad consensus. I would like to thank you very much for this, and we will be happy to give this request our assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26218	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are going to vote on this. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution 2326/A(E) by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, on measures relating to the health scandal of Kirchhette. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Schwentner, Spindelberger, Mag. Aubauer, Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a total amendment. I therefore leave the motion for a resolution as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Schwentner, Spindelberger, Mag. Aubauer, Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever agrees to the request, I ask for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 220.) [[23:13:27]] Agenda item 8 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26268	We now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Amendment No 2309/A by Mr Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues. For this purpose, the following applications shall be submitted: an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues, an amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, colleagues and a request for a separate vote by Mr Wöginger. First of all, I would like to refer to the parts affected by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and to the request for separate votes; Finally, let us vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been agreed. Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a promulgation clause. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 C. 1............................................................................................................................... Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall therefore vote on these parts of the draft law, as amended by the 2309/A initiative by Mr Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. Accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 2. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Z 2 to 4 in Art. 2 introduced. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 2 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is the majority. Accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, have an amendment concerning Rule. 2 Z 5 and Art. 3 Z 3. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is the majority. Accepted. Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z6 in Art. 2 introduced. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, colleagues and colleagues on the subject of Art. 3 Z 4. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. This means that we shall be able to vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the initiative proposal 2309/A by Mr Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and its title, as amended by the initiative proposal 2309/A by Mr Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this bill to be a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[23:17:50]] 12. Point Government template: Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on a modification of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on the extension of the institutional childcare provision (1776 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26415	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. With regard to this government proposal, a period of up to 11 years was granted to the Family Committee. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26445	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly a day of joy for the children in Austria, for the families in Austria, for the communities in Austria, for the countries and for all the ladies and gentlemen who are at the federal level for the well-being, the care and education of our children, because: The Article 15a agreement on the extension of institutional childcare is being continued. Looking back a little bit, you can see that since 2008 in Austria the federal government has taken over €390 million for investments in child rearing and childcare. Countries and municipalities have also co-financed € 235 million. One sees that child rearing and childcare are characterized by a strong partnership between the municipalities, the countries and the federal government. The effect was that we have achieved the Barcelona target for the three- to six-year-olds through this expansion initiative and that the care rate of the under three-year-olds has doubled in recent years. What exactly is in the package? – It includes the fact that in 2018 there is again money for municipalities and countries to be invested, namely, €52.5 million. This will trigger a total of €100 million of investment. It is also agreed to design a national quality framework. I think we can go into a really good future with this decision. I can thank Sophie Karmasin. I thanked my family colleagues this morning. Now I'm saying, Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, dear Sophie! Thank you for your commitment! Thank you very much for your heart's blood that you've brought into family policy in recent years, about family support, about the childcare allowance account, about the expansion of childcare facilities and many other projects that you've accompanied and led leading. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude this item with a quote: “It is the largest extension offensive in childcare that has ever occurred in Austria.” This could undoubtedly be from your feather – I found it today – but it is from 2014 and comes from the then women's minister Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. I want to thank you for the roses. I believe that we have really put something on the way and I am delighted with the agreement. This is really to be found on the homepage today. It's really a pleasure that we brought something together. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister Stöger is no longer in our midst. This was a very interesting speech at this item on the agenda, which was about emergency aid. I would ask the Social Democracy to ask the Federal Minister how he meant this when he formulated that this decision should no longer be relevant to the partner income for emergency aid. I would have liked to know what he meant if he said: This decision abolishes family ties because this system has not worked for 100 years. – Mrs Schwentner shakes her head. [[Abg. Schwentner:... don't understand what it's all about!]] I have to say quite honestly: After four years as a family spokesperson of the ÖVP, I am annoyed by such statements. I'd be really interested in how he meant that. The challenge was then that FPÖ should take part in this decision. I say directly to the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, who are still here: If Barbara had been a rosary, you would probably not have voted in favour of this decision. It can't be in your sense, Mrs. Kitzmüller, that the gangs in a family are almost abolished. When I remember the last four years, I think that's not your line. I'd ask you for a little more liner loyalty. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I wish us an interesting discussion today, a nice evening and everything good.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26513	Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26535	Mr Strasser! For the explanation only: I am married 32 years and proud that I am married 32 years, but I am not dependent on my husband and I do not need to ask him if I can do anything, do anything or spend it because I am not dependent on his money. If you don't understand that, you don't understand a modern marriage. That's from the old clothes collection. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Scherak.]] Now I want to speak to the law. Yes, we welcome the law, too. It is a continuation that we are grateful to God for making this continuation now in the last session of this legislative period, otherwise this law would have expired and we would no longer have funding next year. That's not enough now. Mr Strasser has already made his statement. We would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to justify this request as follows: Why is this federal uniform quality framework so important to me? There was an Oberlandesgerichtsjudgment against a kindergarten teacher. She was accused of not complying with her duty of supervision, because in the turn hour that this kindergarten teacher had to perform alone with 21 children, unfortunately a girl in the gymnastics fell off the edge wall with the long bench and got hurt. This kindergarten teacher was accused and sentenced – and that can't be! That is why we are so much poking on this uniform quality framework. Such things must no longer happen. We have to make sure that the countries – it is a country competence – set up their staff in such a way that such a thing can never happen again. Otherwise, of course, we will also support the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26620	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lueger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26703	Next, Mrs Karmasin, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26725	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, in fact, we are talking here about the largest expansion offensive of the federal government that ever existed, in this legislative period. During this period, a number of things have been carried on in the sense of child education and elementary education. We can be really proud that over the last few years 65 000 new places have been developed and financed together with the countries and communities. This is an enormous milestone in this area than we do. There is now a care rate of 28.2 percent for those under the age of three. This is a steady rise that we are really proud of. We can also talk about many advantages and improvements at the opening hours. In the three-year-olds, we already have 60 percent of the seats in the VIF criteria, i.e. 60 percent already have great opening hours. But: We need to do more here. We need even more places, we need even more flexible opening hours, which are based on the wishes of parents and children instead of those of the authorities, and of course we also need more staff in the facilities. That is why it is so gratifying that in the last few weeks of this decision it has been taken that we can continue the Article 15a agreement so that no projects need to be stopped or perhaps even caregivers are cancelled. We are very glad that this agreement was still successful, especially in these very hot times. Furthermore, Mrs Lueger, we are very glad that the law states that it will be until 31. A single quality framework is to be negotiated in March. That is, that's already on track, that's in this 15a agreement. There are also the next further steps inside, namely until 31. To discuss the further development of August, to take up language promotion and also to decide on an extension of the free kindergarten year. All these points are already in the law. From there it is, I believe, a round package that will cover not only the next year, but also the decisions for the next years. Finally, let me sum up briefly what has happened in the last four years. All in all, I think we can be very proud of what has been decided in this House over the last four years. Apart from strengthening the care places in this country, we were able to implement the education compass in Upper Austria, a pilot project that pays close attention to the resources and potential of children, away from a deficit orientation. We were able to implement the children's money account and also write the partnership in the family image into the law and strengthen it through several mechanisms by often motivating the father's participation in the family and the partnership bonus. Overall, I think we can be very proud here. A lot has happened. Some things have been done, but there is quite a lot left open, and these are the projects of the next Federal Government. At this point I would like to thank you for the good cooperation in many areas, of course also in open and sometimes hard discussions, but many areas have been successful. In particular, I would like to thank Georg Strasser, who has always managed the Family Committee well and has offered a good basis for discussions there. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thanks also to the other family spokespersons for the good cooperation in the end! I think the successes can be seen. Thank you, all the best, and as much strength, energy and commitment for the families in the next period! Thank you very much for everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26789	Mrs Kitzmüller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26812	There are two criticisms to this Article 15a agreement, which I would like to raise here. First of all, quality assurance has been promised, which should have been supposed to be by 2016. We had already warned that this would not happen and wanted to have an earlier quality assurance. Now, in turn, quality assurance with 2016 is also history. The deadline for this was postponed to March 2018. So these are things that are not thoughtful, where it is easy to agree. Another problem I have here with this Article-15a agreement is that we have read in the explanations that the second compulsory kindergarten year is to come. This is exactly the proposal we have received here from Mr Lueger and Mr Kucharovich, which is about a second compulsory kindergarten year. There should also be a right to free full-day care from the full-time first year of life. So we cannot accept this request. With great abdominal pain, I must say that we agree with the extension of the Article 15a agreement, because we do not want to have a second mandatory kindergarten year – and of course no legal claim on it either. As Mr Strasser spoke about working families, I must say: A family then works if I have two equal partners, and I am equal as a wife or a man if I am not financially dependent on the good will of my husband or wife, but can also touch me financially without him or her. Then I have equal partners. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Mölzer.]] This is what I think was required in the previous item on the agenda. I have to tell you, I've been together with my husband for 40 years. We have had a particularly good partnership for 40 years because we are independent of each other and I am not dependent on what my husband is bringing home. What is also important here: We want freedom of choice for the families and we do not want any obligations. We did not want to have the first compulsory kindergarten year, let alone a second compulsory kindergarten year, and a legal claim not at all; especially because the legal claim only prefers lawyers because we do not have the extended kindergarten and the children's cribs. As long as we don't have that, a legal claim is uninteresting anyway. Families have no freedom of choice when I tell them to give their children to kindergarten. We want them to be able to give the children to the kindergarten voluntarily. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig.]] In our opinion, not only should the state pillar be extended here and not only the state childcare priority, but we want child care within the family to be equal to that the mothers or fathers – depending on who cares for the children in the family – are equal to state childcare. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We also want to continue that there is also a pension insurance here, because in most cases it is the mothers who then stay at home and care for the children. I have no idea if I say we have to make a second compulsory kindergarten year. We want the families to have freedom of choice. When I say freedom of choice, I'm back on the old subject: We have no valorization, we have done nothing so far, and this, ladies and Gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, lies in your failure to act as regards families!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26882	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26903	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Yes, of course, we agree with the proposal. Of course, it is good that the extension of childcare facilities will continue to be ensured next year, although we believe that it is a pity that it is only a year again. It would have been better to secure this for several years. We know that child care is better or worse depending on the state. I come from Styria, where the care for the over three years is relatively good, but worse than in all the other federal states, and in the case of the three-year-olds, the Styria is at all final. There is still a lot of done, it is not done enough, as many construction sites after your time as a family minister unfortunately remain open. There is, on the one hand, the second year of kindergarten, which was included in the Government Convention and which, unlike my predecessor, I think is very important. This is about something we often talk about, which is about which educational opportunities children are given at the lowest age. It's very important what's happening. It is very often about the German skills that are strengthened in children who are not German mother tongues. It is a pity that we have a Minister of Integration, who always complains that many children and young people are not integrated accordingly, but when it comes to ensuring that children can learn German early enough and a second years of kindergarten is made possible, the Minister of Integration and also the Minister of Family has unfortunately not been strong enough. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: For those who can have German, must that be mandatory?]] – It is about that they have the opportunity to learn German. Children, as you all know, learn German very quickly when they find the right environment. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A child who can do German must learn it? The Supreme Regulatory Party...!]] Another construction site, which unfortunately remains and which is also voiced in the SPÖ resolution, is quality assurance. We do not have a uniform quality framework. It is now in the Article 15a agreement that this is to be sought, but I believe it is a failure that has not happened. Group size, closing times, care keys, that is, how many caregivers are there, all this has to be regulated. It is also important that the training of elementary teachers is upgraded and that higher education is obtained. There are many construction sites that remain for the next government, and that is a shame. The only thing that's good is that at least some progress has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26951	Next, Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e26972	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! As we stand on this Article 15a agreement, we have already said very clearly in many discussions. We are of course of the opinion that the largest investment at the beginning of education, which needs to be pedagogy, is for a very simple reason: because everything we can give to our children in the kindergarten often saves itself in the later education and also in the later career path. There we give people the opportunities they may not have in life later on. It is just as important, however, when it comes to the extension of childcare facilities, that we do not respond to many other issues, but that we do: whether this is the high part-time employment rate for women, which will later become a poverty trap, whether the question of integration or whether this can also be the higher participation of fathers in childcare. There are many answers in this area. In the language, the minister Karmasin was also quite ambitious. I can say that, last but not least, it has been announced that there should be a task-oriented financial framework. However, we do not find this in this agreement today. What we see here is a relatively halfhearted continuation of the status quo. This is therefore a major issue because we need to give the communities a degree of planning security. We cannot leap from year to year and give the municipalities in the nine federal states no clear information on how the overall expansion planning of the federal government is, where it is shot and where it is not. There are no specific measures, even if they are considered to be the largest investment in the field, which are simply not so targeting. Nevertheless, it is the best thing to do. I think it would be wrong to reject it. That is why we support this request. I would like to address one point because my colleague, Mr Gamon, has the last time also tabled a request concerning the common quality framework. This is a central concern for us, which must be at the heart of efforts in the next legislative period, as my previous speakers have said. A few words on Mr Lueger's request: We will support your request. We are, quite frankly, quite hurt at something, because, on the one hand, investment in this area is clearly a necessity for the future, but on the other hand, from my point of view, it is not enough to break down what this funding is supposed to do. [[Abg. Schimanek: It's an absolute nonsense!]] It is a motion for a resolution, it is an expression of will by Parliament, and the will of us NEOS is to invest here and save elsewhere where we leave the money on the road or rail. A few last words to you, Mrs Karmasin: I thank you for the good cooperation. I was often keen in the choice of words. I thank you for your efforts. I think we sometimes separate worlds, but sometimes we have also walked in the same direction. – Thank you for that and for your time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27009	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[23:42:21]] We shall vote on it, the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG (1776b). the authorisation to be granted. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Who agrees? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[23:43:04]] 13. Point Request by Mrs Angela Lueger, colleagues on a federal law amending the Consumer Payment Account Act (2284/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27069	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of up to 5 years has been granted to the Consumer Protection Committee. It was set up for reporting on October 2017. There is no need for oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27100	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. There is a request to amend the Consumer Payment Account Act, a SPÖ request to re-regulate the fees for cash withdrawals to banknotes. In accordance with this request, Austrian banks are to take over the reimbursement fee of independent banknote operators. What's this about? – Currently, the banking business in Austria is mainly managed by banks with few exceptions, and these banks do not charge with few exceptions. I think only in Tyrol there were isolated cases with a booking fee. Now operators have entered the market, exclusively operating a banknote business. That is, they have to ask for something for this service they offer, of course, because they also want to achieve a profit. The SPÖ's request is obviously due to complaints from consumers who, if they have gone to such an independent banknote operator, had to pay fees there. The above application provides that these fees, which an independent provider, an external company that generates profits, are to be taken over by the account-leading bank, in other words, wherever one then calculates, which one is to be taken over by a banknote, from whatever point of view. Skurril, isn't it? - For whom, is the question. [[Abg. Greiner: What's shurril?]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] This naturally strengthens the attitude of the SPÖ: Whoever's supposed to pay, who doesn't care. In that case, it's supposed to be the banks. The banks – and this is really amazing about it – are required to finance the competitor – to the fullest. They pay him if they have to take over these fees, the expenses, they pay him the profit, they secure him a riskless business. That cannot be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – I didn’t understand that now, but it won’t have been so important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The ÖVP claps, although it does not know if it has not understood it acoustically or in terms of content!]] What will that mean? – Banks will not be able to accept these fees very easily. There will be consequences that will not please consumers. You just have to see that. It is also very worrying by constitutional law. Banks are known to have a constitutional property right. It is the competition authority against it, it does not speak for it at all. My request to you, ladies and gentlemen, is simply not to agree with a request that has no substance that can be followed with a reasonable home mind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Like so many today, I would like to say goodbye. I too will no longer be a member of the next Parliament. I thank you very much for the many encounters and conversations I was allowed to have with you, with all of you. Of course I thank the club. I am particularly grateful to Peter Haubner, my chairman of the ARGE Economic Association, for the staff of the Club, for all who contributed to the fact that I was able to do my job as a parliamentarian in this House. Unfortunately, I lost my parliamentary staff in favour of the election campaign early on – in his absence also a warm thanks to him. I also thank you for a very special encounter, namely the encounter with Franz-Joseph Huainigg. Franz-Joseph is a very special person, who, despite all of these fates he has endured, is always kind and well cheered. If I was perhaps not quite as good at it myself, looked at it and saw the eternal smile in his face, I knew what is really necessary and important in this life. Franz-Joseph, you gave me a lot. It was nice to have you here in the house and get to know you. [[General condolences.]] Finally – and this is also important to me – I thank my seating neighbour: Thank you Angelika Winzig, Werner Groiß, but also Michaela Steinacker. It was, I think, during all the many hours we spent here, pleasant, refreshing and fertilizing conversations that we could hold away from listening and speaking here. - Thank you all.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27184	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank you very much and thank you very much for the future. Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27208	Mr President. Consumer payment account law – a very bulky word. What's behind that? - The banknote fees. Our aim is to ensure that bank customers, i.e. consumers, come to their own cash free of charge. That must be one of the most important things. They pay account costs, and this has to be enough to ensure that I don't have additional costs when I take off an automatic machine. In addition, account costs – and each of us will have heard – have actually increased significantly in recent years. If the bank wants to operate its own machines, the bank should also pay the machine operator instead of the customer. We know very well that rural areas in particular have poorer, older, fragile, often sick people affected by these banknote charges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In Vienna, I admit quite honestly, I don't have the problem if I have to pay € 2 for an external provider of somewhere or stop from the bank's ATM. But if I live in a federal country where the banks have locked up in several towns, and there at once there is a Euronet issue machine, then there I have the problem that I cannot choose. [[Abg. Sherak: It's like that everywhere! This is in every Austrian community!]] - No, it's not everywhere. Unfortunately, it's not everywhere. There are many, many localities where the banks have locked up, and there is now an automatic Euronet company. I can't choose there, and these people, who then often withdraw small amounts and withdraw more often, have to pay 2 € each time. And we don't want to. We don't want to. [[Abg. Rädler: Anyone has to pay it!]] – The proposal is coming now! Listen, that's in the request! You'd just need to read it, you'd have known. We want all costs covered by the account package costs. We want that there is no additional fee, because we already had this variant. What did the BAWAG do? – It has all announced the old contracts and has simply reintroduced these amounts to the people in the small prints of the new contracts. [[Abg. Rädler: Your BAWAG!]] We don't want that. We therefore do not want a pure ban either, because we are clear that this ban does not work, but rather there is a collective choice model in which there are several variants, but which does not belong to the individual, but rather to the banks. I am convinced that the banks as negotiators have a much heavier weight than the individual bank customer, as do you or I. We also want the customer to have a right of exemption from the bank's own bank in the case of the payment of banknote fees by third parties. In this respect, I may request an amendment in accordance with § 53 para. Introduce 3 GOG: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27314	This amendment is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27374	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27396	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. What is the point of this proposal, which is not so bad at first sight? – While the banks are not obliged to withdraw money from the market in principle, it is true that the SPÖ is making a request here that an alternative offer should be made with a flat-rate package, which will cover all banknote functions. In a second point, banks should be obliged to bear these costs when a third party, i.e. a third party, requires fees to be paid for the withdrawal of money. That's about 2 € per fix, we've already heard that. What does that mean? – The SPÖ clearly wants to prescribe here with the support of the Greens and also with the Free Private Companies, namely Banks, how they have their services to sell and also to bring them to bear costs from private third parties. Austrian politics therefore believes that it must intervene in a functioning market, because it can or knows better. In reality, however, this intervention is not necessary, because if a bank decides to waive such a fee, there is a market in Austria; that means that the customer can also decide that he will change the institution and go somewhere where there is no charge or better performance. [[Abg. Wenninger: We know that NEOS are against the cash!]] We have the basic principle of the market economy in Austria, and no one can say that there would be only one bank in Austria and the customer is forced to stay with this one bank. If you assume that – and I think this is a little bit of a swing – the banks will agree to that and all at the same time ask for fees: We live in a rule of law, we have cartel judges, and they then have to decide whether, under these circumstances, an unlawful agreement has taken place with regard to consumers. So what would be the solution? What are we proposing? First of all, one is to identify the banknotes who demand these fees, so that you can really see where fees are collected. Secondly, What some customers need is real fee transparency. We should prescribe them by law, because we would also be NEOS with them. We assume that it is a bit due to the election campaign to bring this issue to the agenda. That is why we will not give the NEOS votes for it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27432	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27454	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Lueger! So far, we have been used to the fact that the ÖVP and the List of Short adopt our programs and ideas. This seems to be a little bit overturned to the SPÖ now. We liberals have been trying for many years in the Consumer Protection Committee to prevent these banknote charges. Mrs. Lueger, you have always resisted it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The problem is as follows: They have now produced this text of law, with no agreement with us, by themselves. Unfortunately, as you put it, it is not very wise, I say quite clearly. Of course, we will nevertheless agree, because we do not want to have any banknote fees in Austria. But you have to say quite clearly: The story is a little more complicated. It is about consumers that we are free, and the effects of the law could not only bring positive effects to consumers. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to address an accusation to the banking industry, which has blocked over years and prevented a reasonable solution in the interests of consumers. I'm trying to explain, it's not that easy: It is basically true that in recent years, there have been increasingly frequent private banknotes from American companies like Euronet in Austria, which are growing very rapidly, especially in frequency situations. [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Scherak and Mr Wenninger.]] They operate these banknotes independently. A banknote is not exactly cheap – between € 40 000 and € 60 000 – and the current costs also apply. It's a private American company. For this, all currently pay €1.95 per withdrawal. Now there is the following problem: There is a pool between the banks in Austria, a pool solution, the PSA, where the Raika calculates a more or less fictitious rate from the savings bank for normal settlements. This is then settled at the end of the year and clearly rises relatively within the banks. Now, however, suddenly the private people have appeared, now the problem is that this Austrian PPE story is not connected internationally. The next problem could be that this doesn't work with the Maestro card anymore. All that we are now withdrawing from banknotes abroad is going through the international system, and that is not included. This has unfortunately been overlooked by the SPÖ, Mrs Lueger, on this subject. It's a little more complicated. If we now decide on this law – and we will decide – there could be a danger, because I can't force a bank in Austria to operate banking machines in Gramatneususdl – I say now, without wanting to insult Gramatneususdl – or else in rural areas. It could happen that exactly the opposite is happening, and what we want, namely that consumers come to their money at no cost, may become more difficult in rural areas. Unfortunately, this is the problem with the legislative text you are presenting; it poses some dangers and risks in itself. We would have preferred that you would have voted this in conversation with us, because what you are presenting is not very well thought out in my opinion. I am also surprised, Minister Stöger, that you have not created a smarter solution – you have many banking contacts. What we want to prevent above all: Regional banks are also important employers, they have employees, branches, pay taxes. With this law, there is a risk that Internet banks and foreign private companies such as Euronet will benefit from the system. I see this danger clearly in this law. My proposal would be to put this ban into effect now. I believe, however, that this should be discussed again in the next few months in detail as regards implementation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would be really happy if the SPÖ would take over things from us in the future, not only take over the headlines, but also discuss the content with us before maybe things happen that are not ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27527	Mrs Fichtinger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27548	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, There has already been a lot of space for the election campaign today, there was a little bit of a matter of policy, and the constructive discourse has come a little too short. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] There are, as we have now heard, many Husch-Fuch actions, and something is decided – probably it is decided – that it is already known that it is actually quite absurd, since such a regulation is used in constitutionally guaranteed property rights of banks, which is why this will probably lead to a challenge at the Constitutional Court. Whether that really makes sense is another question. Mr Jank has already explained in detail what that means. Similarly, Mr Worm explained that Euronet operators are likely to benefit and that normal banks have the problem. No Austrian bank could offer giroconten on the current conditions, and one would have to get out of the international card networks. For example, there would be no longer any bids available, such as the international settlements on the banknotes. That could happen. At the end of the day, the producers, in this case independent banknote operators, would have to pay for the costs, but all customers would have to. I don't think all of us would want to do that. Another addition to the margin, because it has already been mentioned today, to the rural area: I myself can list examples, I have mayors who invest money so that they will have a banknote in the community at all in the future. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Four years you have had time to think about it! You left construction sites on all levels!]] Therefore, it is reasonable to look more closely at this and not to take a decision – quickly, quickly, popularly – that will probably do nothing. That's actually pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27594	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27615	Mr President. A lot of things have already been said. For years, banks have reduced their performance for customers. In rural areas it looks very bad. There are some banks locked up because simply no one is on the switch. You don't see it in any way that you have to pay money for online banking, so to speak for self-banking; so we have always been tending for a ban on banknote fees. We support the proposal, but we would have gone a step further, because we think that this proposal can only partially implement it. This means that the corresponding fees must be negotiated separately. We must be careful – I think that has already been said by Mr Worm – that this change of law does not go in a completely different direction in some way and that banks do not abuse this change of law and thus justify price increases. To that end, we are going along with it in the sense of consumer protection, not in the sense of bank protection. We think this law is very good. As an opposition politician, I would like to share something with you, Minister of State. When I came to the Consumer Protection Committee – where former Federal Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer was still in office – I came to committee meetings with full Elan and full of ideas and was then extremely frustrated within one year, because all our requests were unfortunately postponed. We also had only two committee meetings each with two hours a year. We are talking about consumer protection here, so we cannot hurt anyone very much. I am sure you can find a lot of common ground and make common applications possible. I am sorry that we did not really use this opportunity, because merely delaying applications can become a habit in the long run, and this habit can become a character called a standstill at the end of the legislative period. I hope that in the next legislative period, we will have the opportunity to have more committee meetings and to make even more proposals to promote consumer protection. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27653	The next speaker is Mr Stöger. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27674	Mr President. Mr. Finanzminister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to tell you another story. [[Ah-rufe and general hustle and bustle.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: It's already ghost hour!]] 1. September 1975, I was just an apprentice – some were not yet in the world, they have not experienced it, so I say it – I opened my first account. [[Call the ÖVP: I wasn't in the world yet!]] The banks have run after me and have promised high and holy, all account management fees are lost, the bank account is run free of charge. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] That's what they have reasoned that Energie AG, then called OKA, no longer has to cash the electricity itself, that one no longer has to fill in the payroll in the companies. This is a huge saving for the entire population. [[Call to the ÖVP: Under Bruno Kreisky, that was at the BAWAG!]] – By the way, it was Raiffeisenbank Perg, the branch of All Saints, since I opened my first account and was very happy – and it was always free. I changed the account in 1986, 11 years later, it was still free, with a natural nature. What is it like today? – At that time people were in the bank, today there are no more, today you will find a banknote. Just as it was then, you start by telling customers that their money will no longer be spent free of charge, because there are some bad Americans who demand €2 for a bank withdrawal. I would have liked to ask the civil rightsist among you this question, because I see it this way: The banknote or the banknote operator shall act as a paying agency for the accountant bank. It is up to the bank to decide with its service provider how high the tariff for this replacement service is. That's exactly what we do. Market is taking place there. The Raiffeisenbanken and as they all call it, can agree with the banknote operator the tariffs, as they have now agreed 40 cents in the internal billing. If we have a functioning banking system, such a measure will also be possible through banking supervision and market arrangements. That's what it's all about. I am concerned that consumers come to their own money free of charge. To the bank again – to the representatives of NEOS –: [[Abg. Scherak: Yes, here!]] If you're going to this community today, where I opened my first account, then look at how many banknotes there are, that is, exactly one. There is a banknote in this municipality. In this community you can still stick up so large posters, it does not help people. The older people who do not go to work must bear the costs. That's what we want to prevent. People have to come to their money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing: If Mr. Finanzminister Schelling removes €1,000, he will pay 2 Promille Banknote Fee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] If a pensioner or employee cancels 100 €, he pays 2%, and if a student or a student cancels 10 € because he no longer has, then he pays 20 percent. This is so unfair that you have to do something about it. I'm glad you show them today that this is not possible. [[Prolonged condolences with SPÖ and greens.]] I ask all Members to give their assent to the abolition of the banknote fee. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members who, today, plan to leave Parliament or unplannedly, and also all the others, very much for their cooperation. Sometimes it was very exciting, there were many good ideas with it. As a member of the Federal Government, I allow myself to say thanks to you for this activity in the legislative; Thank you also for having had intensive discussions and for bringing Austria a bit further! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27790	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27811	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Federal Minister, I have finally recognized the problem of social democracy: They stopped in 1975. Quite obviously! [[Cheerfulness with NEOS, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] You're telling me about a time when I haven't been in the world for 11 years, and I'm telling you one thing: Believe me, the world has changed since 1975, quite honestly! [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] I think it's incredible that you're making yourself and saying there's no more services at banks. I don't know which bank you are at; my bank has internet banking, I can make transfers 24/7 there. And you're making yourself up and saying there's no more services, and it's best to have everything for free. That's a social democratic understanding of market economy – well, that's not an understanding of market economy, and that's your main problem, that's incredible! [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] You didn't answer the scurryest, and I'm excited about that: They now want to stop the banks from taking over these fees. What will the banks do? – You will try to obtain these fees from somewhere else, they will increase accountancy fees. I know what to do then. Your recipe is: You will then ban accountancy fees and tell the banks that they must not collect anything at all, because, according to your idea, everything must be free in this country. – That this can’t work if you’re constantly prohibiting any things and telling the banks how to operate, that you’re ruining the economic location, and that you don’t understand how market economy works, just shows: Social democracy remained stuck in 1975. I'm really giving you a tip: Look at you coming out this year!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27881	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Amendment No 2284/A by Mrs Angela Lueger. Mr Lueger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. First of all, I would like to vote on the part of the proposed amendment concerned, finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Lueger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Z4. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, together with the entry in the text of the own-initiative proposal 2284/A by Mrs Angela Lueger, colleagues. Who's right? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. Third reading: I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[00:17:16]] 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1774, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Banking Act, the Federal Act on Securities and General Stock Exchanges 2018, the Deposit Guarantee and Investor Reimbursement Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Capital Market Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016 and the Payment Services Act (1778 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1775, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the National Bank Act 1984 and the Economic Owners Register Act (1779 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27961	We shall now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e27988	Mr President. Federal Minister! In essence, TOP 14 is about reforming financial market supervision in a superior sense, including, of course, the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority and the Austrian National Bank, both of which are responsible for financial market supervision and other supervisory areas in relatively complex ways. There is certainly one thing or another that would not completely solve the current problems, but would improve their solution. We're going to make it short, too little far. I do not have to go as far as the Court of Auditors, which has always recommended that both authorities should reunite on the essential banking supervision issue. [[Federal Minister Schelling: This prevented the SPÖ!]] – Yes, but I’m not saying that this should have been absolutely necessary; maybe it’s yes. You think you might say something about it anyway. The Court of Auditors must not always be right, it was only quite clear. I find that on the way there was – yes, it is often – forced to compromise. We have always followed this closely from the point of view; it could have been a reform with two-thirds majority, so of course we have always been a bit on the pirch. I would say now that it is certainly a bit better than before, but the basic problems remain unresolved, therefore our rejection. I have to tell you that this is one of the consequences of the banking scandal – where we do not want to be unfair and just say banks are about very special banks. We know a bank from Carinthia, but you have to be fair, it was not just the one; there was the local credit, the Volksbanken, that was not quite easy, and so on. From my point of view, there would be at least as reasonable things as here, where we are trying to turn on the wheels, where more self-immunization than protection from vulnerability to wrong balance sheets and even worse detours could be done, for example, if the rotational obligation of the bank and auditors were not to be extradited again at about 20 years; one should have reduced them. That is what we expect to be an advantage if the first thing we can do is choose who will examine them – and the auditors will not be drawn independently from a pool, of course, and then there is this dependency ratio that they will be paid by the bank, and then over many, many years. In the Balkans one has seen how unhealthy this is, because there are bank and economic auditors almost cancerous with the branches, with the daughters, one has to say that the hypo grew in Klagenfurt, because the banks on the ground were not even the evil ones, because they have been subject to supervision in Serbia, in Croatia or also in Bosnia, and this supervision has partly functioned better than ours. It was true, however, that the immediate subsidiaries of the Hypo in Klagenfurt, which had been licensed in Austria, made their detours; and then there is the phenomenon that the bank auditors grow up to the same extent as the bank, all invented freshly – so that this is not healthy, one can also recognize as a layman. In conclusion, you could learn that if you think about some federal states, not just one thing: We could have dealt with an insolvency right for federal states – and this is a major failure in this legislative period. This would be at least as important as this reform, which is not even half-way, but even earlier. That is why we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28025	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28046	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We still have an interesting issue to discuss at this time of day, the government template for the reform of financial market supervision. It is nice that we are today also adopting a law that we have sent in our opinion, which has been discussed for a long time and is now leading to a compromise that we like to support – even if it is not the great throw we would have wanted in many points. This matter of law concerns many laws, the most important is the Financial Market Supervisory Act. The process of supervision should be improved and efficiency increased. The most important thing is that we get back to the legal system that there are review procedures there, for regulations, guidelines, newsletters and so on, that politics can talk there and the FMA does not develop its own life in such a way that it itself has to write laws and implement them. It is important that transparency is given that also the second instance, the second level is publicly advertised, that there is really transparent who supervises the banks, who supervises the companies. However, there is also a need to strengthen the quality of supervision and improve administrative procedures, for example, to increase quality in the state commissioner system, which we have always criticized in particular in the Hypo-Research Committee, and there are training obligations, and there are closer intervals in reporting obligations. It should also be a little simplification inside, for example, the introduction of an electronic prospectus approval procedure in the issue of securities prospectuses. There should also be a possibility of a common – accelerated – termination of proceedings, so that the procedures can not be extended forever, but they can be completed together. In particular, the risk-based approach to banking supervision will finally be introduced, so small banks will be examined differently from large banks. I believe that for the banks, legal certainty is also essential. In the future, decisions will be taken to guarantee legal certainty that banks will then be able to act as they were in advance. Also important is the size-dependent organisational relief: The thresholds for the compulsory formation of certain committees are set up. This will improve some organizational provisions which small banks cannot at present or almost fail to comply with. So today we are discussing at least half an early request for banks to reduce red tape, greater legal certainty, cost reduction and greater transparency. It is nice that we can at least discuss and decide with each other a request for a review procedure today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28094	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28116	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the rules on financial market supervision is mainly part of the Banking Act. On the one hand, its innovation aims to increase transparency and, on the other, to improve supervisory efficiency, while remaining in principle with the FMA and the National Bank. § 25, for example, provides for the possibility of outsourcing banking activities, but only under certain conditions, e.g. if the collection, assessment, management and supervision of the banking risks are ensured. Such outsourcing must not, on the one hand, lead to a delegation of business activities and, on the other hand, must not interfere with the relationship between the institutions and the customers. Thirdly, the conditions for the award of concessions must not be affected either. My previous speaker mentioned it briefly: A separate risk management department is only mandatory for credit institutions of significant economic importance, and its own internal revision only needs to be set up at an institution whose balance sheet total exceeds €300 million. The on-the-spot supervisory review will lead to a risk-oriented acceleration of the failure-solving process by enabling financial market supervision to obtain opinions from the institution directly and directly in case of high priority audit reports in the future. Cost representations of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank will be presented more transparent and predictable in future. I think all in all, this novelle is a step in the right direction. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28155	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Citizens! Just for the last speech I actually decided not to become a polemic – you apologise, I have to do it briefly. It was so funny to hear various statements on the subject of banknotes; I would really give you the recommendation: Just forbid the banknotes, because evil capital comes out! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] We already experience certain curious things with each other, but let me just soon – yes, I see you are beginning to think, that's good! – present draft Financial Market Supervision Opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] I mean, it's a first, very essential step in the right direction. One point which has not yet been raised, but which I think is very essential: The reform now opens up the possibility for financial institutions to obtain a legally binding information, i.e. a kind of advance notice. This is very important because, in the event of doubt, it is possible to clarify ahead of time what you can and cannot do. So this is very practical. Similarly, the increase in the thresholds for the compulsory establishment of various committees is very good; Werner Groiß has already mentioned it. Unfortunately, however, the Audit Committee has been forgotten, which should be repeated in a second step. However, I would also like to expressly welcome the initiative of the FMA Boards to take the proportionality more seriously in the future, which they have also presented at international level. I mean, this is an important issue in Europe, and especially for us in Austria, in our small structured country, it is quite, very important, because we are not supposed to shoot cannons. This means that the administrative burden for smaller institutions should be facilitated. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my parliamentary activity, let me add a few personal words. From Hermann Hesse we know the quote: “And every beginning dwells in a magic.” – I would like to add this and say: And every degree should have some knowledge. On the one hand, I would like to thank all of you very much, but I would also like to give you a thought for thought. I would like to express my gratitude, and that is what I would like to express to all my colleagues in all six, now five, political groups. For me there have been very, very many interesting encounters, interesting conversations, many of which will surely find a continuation. My respect, I would also like to say at this point, applies to all those who have worked with idealism for the res publica, but also to those who have truly honestly represented their respective political interests and ideas. I will pay all the highest respect that work with propriety for their cause, and I would like to take an example: our dear friend Franz-Joseph Huainigg. I'm really sorry, dear Franz-Joseph, that you're excruciating. Thank you for your commitment in these 15 years in Parliament, vice-president for everyone! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Kogler and Mr Steinbichler on his work.]] The second is a thought which I would like to share with you, all of us, a thought of thought, realistically, of course, even after the election; the thought is: In the sense of our democracy, would it not be valuable to develop parliamentaryism together in Austria? To further develop parliamentarianism means to me a more independent Parliament in the sense of the sharing of powers, a more efficient Parliament in the sense of working on results, especially in the committees, and that is to say a closer Parliament in terms of more realistic decisions – more independent, more efficient and closer to the people. I myself will deal with this issue in the future – apart from day-to-day policy – and hope that there will also be some exchange of views in this sense. Anyway, I wish you all the best, all the best. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28228	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for Your work here in the High House and everything good for the future! The next speaker is Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28252	Mr President. Federal Minister! Very briefly to my previous speaker: It must be clear to us here that the banks have withdrawn from many areas, are no longer local contact points and people depend on the banknotes. We must therefore ensure that they have this opportunity. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Especially old people have the problem of not being connected via the Internet and so on – but, as said: If you say you don't want it, it's not a problem, we want something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zakostelsky.]] I am now coming to EU Regulation 2016/867. This concerns the collection of credit data and credit risk data, a faster and better assessment of risks to financial stability. A separate database will be created to improve the monitoring and rapid knowledge of the activities of legal persons and persons taking up loans or building financial constructions from €25 000. That might have helped us in the case of Hypo if you had this database and had seen what was going on in the background. In reality, it is also about excluding double and multiple messages. § 38 also includes the provision of a public tender for the second level of management in the Austrian National Bank – an important adjustment for greater transparency and financial market stability. Since I too say goodbye to today, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for their cooperation, especially those in the Committee on Petitions. I mean, we have changed a lot in these years, something open to the citizens to Parliament. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, but still too little!]] – Yes, it is always too little, but we have taken the first steps! If you look at the years before, you can say that we have taken the first steps, and our successors will have the opportunity to continue to bring citizens' interests into this House and to implement it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28303	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank you very much and wish you all the best! No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft federal law, which amends the Banking Act, the Federal Act on Securities and General Stock Exchanges 2018, the Deposit Guarantee and Investor Reimbursement Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 1774 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Investment Fund Act, the National Bank Act and the Economic Owners Register Act, including title and receipt in 1775 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[00:37:23]] 16. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 2299/A by Mr Mag. Philipp Schrangl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Fees Act 1957, BGBl. No. 267/1957, amended (1780, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28386	Now we get to the 16th. Agenda item. First of all, Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28411	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With today I am exactly 5 245 days here in the High House. When I was praised here on Ashindi Wednesday of 2003, I was over-increased, I almost want to say that self-confidence came in. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (delighted) That's right!]] At the time, I was a law firm in a tax consultancy firm, and I thought: So, those who have made these bad laws, which we have always criticized in practical implementation, I will show them now! Anyone who comes into the house with a subject area on his back and with a self-confidence that now everything will be different, will eventually be brought to the ground of reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I came at the right time at the time, on tax reform in 2003/2004, just for decision-making. My first speech was on tax reform in 2003/2004, and in 2008 I was allowed to negotiate for myself – not to mention the year 2016 when 5 billion € tax relief was decided; we now also see the impact that discharge has done people very, very well. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Mr Schelling is not so convinced!]] We have been very successful, I do not want to narrow that at all, but we have not succeeded in much either. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in eliminating the cold progression in the last financial committee. This hurts me most personally, because I always felt that we should decide on tax reforms and not always take care of collective reform and collective bargaining. It was always important to me that you finally go into the tax structure, that you eventually bring in ecological approaches. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whatever was particularly important to me is the simplification of the tax system. Tax advisors will continue to earn money, even if we decide to simplify the tax system. What I'm extremely sorry about is that we didn't succeed in implementing a minimum tax-free living per child. Sebastian Kurz has put this on the table with the 1,500-€ bonus once in the election campaign. I hope that the next National Council will accept this. I believe it is important that we do something for families and children in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also quite sure that it will be relatively quick and easy to end cold progression in the next legislative period, because I believe that this is a very essential step towards the release of citizens in this country. But I would like to thank some people in my last speech, and the very first one I want to thank is Jakob Auer. Jakob Auer has “inherited” the Budget Committee, and in fact he has supported me over the last 14 years in a way that would benefit many of those who will come to the National Council during the next legislative period if they had such promoters. Finally, I would also like to thank Günter Stummvoll, who unfortunately is no longer there, also he has encouraged me from the first moment, and finally Karlheinz Kopf, who asked me when he was Clubobmann, and who also asked me in the committee of inquiry when he was chairman. I would really like to thank all the leaders of the political groups in the Committee on Budgets, because there are really good meetings. Everyone who worked with me knows I'm a fighter. I've always burned for the thing, I think I've been hard on it, but always binding. At least I tried to be binding, and that is why my handshake was worth something. This is crucial in politics, even if you have different ideological and professional approaches. I believe and I really hope that I am told that this was so on all the topics and in all the areas I have covered and for which I have been able to bear responsibility. I would like to thank the staff members of the clubs, because they too are important in the negotiations, also with the parliamentary staff, and with a very special, at Andy Samonig, who in recent years, I think, has also participated quite a lot with me, because it is not natural for someone to accompany for so long and also for negotiations and other things to be available again and again, to collect information and so on. Not least, I would like to thank the sixth Minister of Finance in my term of office, Mr Schelling. I can only say one thing: ==References== Not so much porcelain has yet been crushed in October so that something can be done in a constructive way for the citizens here in the House again. I go in the heart despite flame and political fire and break up to new shores and wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28512	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the work here in the House – it is nice that you do not comply with the demand during my time as a clubman. Good luck! Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28536	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we will put an end to rental contract fees, as set out in the 2013 government agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP. I would have liked to have done so four years earlier. What really happens in this decision today is that the ÖVP will not support it, and that is as if at a dinner for two one of the partners does not come to an appointment. Three parties have met today to take this decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This agreement has caused the ÖVP to burst. We have not been able to obtain precise information from the Ministry of Finance on the level of revenue. According to Statistics Austria, it is about €50 million. The fees are mainly due to people who at this time are charged with moving costs, possibly with deposits, and therefore this certainly means a welcome relief and less financial effort for these people. As a residential speaker, I must nevertheless note that the content of the rental contracts does not change if we make this decision today. The content is defective, and the rental law does not provide enough legal certainty. As you know, we are in the law for clear, performance-related surcharges and discounts, for a reduction of the temporary contracts to exceptions and, above all, for compensation for operating costs. With the abolition of rental contract fees, we save the tenants around €50 million, and if we fix what is contained in the rental contracts, a discharge of €5.75 billion could come out for the tenants. We stand for these discharges for the tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28581	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28603	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you are on the go – and at the moment you are even more on the go than during the legislative period – and you start discussing financial issues with people, then there are two topics that people are constantly working on. One is the question of how it can be that the state has been spending more and more for many years than it is taking. There you try to somehow argue that you can somehow finance additional new debt again through economic growth. But I also notice that this argument is not going through with the people. I therefore think it is important to point out in the new programming that we want a balanced government budget as a goal. Mr Krainer! By the way, I find it very interesting that you did not agree to the debt brake today. They even negotiated this a few years ago. – This has only been noted briefly in an additional sentence. [[Abg. Krainer: Because you used a different text!]] A second theme that also moves people very much: It is asked if there are still meetings before the National Council election on Sunday. If you answer with yes and say that we have another session three days before the National Council election, it almost comes as in the reflex: Please don't do it like 2008 when you were on 24 February 2008. On September 25, 25 applications, 17 applications for legislation and expenditure of billions of euros have been decided! [[Abg. Steinhauser: These are Grästerln!]] It is true that any single measure can be argumentable, disputable, no question. But people don't want you to pretend there's no budget a few days before the election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a study of Agenda Austria that I find really interesting. It has been shown that, whenever an election year is, public expenditure is increasing significantly. – Let me explain to you that this is a solid, serious budgetary policy! In principle, of course, we also welcome the abolition of charges on rents, not a question. One could discuss the specific training, but at the moment we simply reject it because you always have to have a little look at the whole thing. A balanced government budget must continue to be a high objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28657	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28678	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear tenants! Dear landlord! High house! Today, therefore, it is abolished: Under Maria Theresa, she was decided in this House, together with the general school obligation at that time, and we are now abolishing her again because of the success of this school obligation in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear tenants, dear landlords, we have fought for you! We fought for you, and we found fellow fighters, because without them it would not have been possible. Whoever has rented an apartment so far has been mercilessly cut off – not by the landlord, as some might think, but by the state, by this Republic. Where's the performance? – Ladies and gentlemen, there is no one! So it's pure decassing without counterperformance. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Well, you have to be a little funny too. Please, dear ÖVP, it can't be a gift either, because every gift has to be in return, and in this gift there's no return, and that's why it was returned to the citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I thank all those who with me abolish this unfair fee, but you're right, it can only be a start. The rental law is in need of reform, and every party here in the house has good ideas about it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's it!]] And so I look forward to the next period in which we hope to bring together a really good solution. [[Abg. Moser: With the ÖVP? How's that going?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't play anyone against each other, we break through red-black standstill. Dear tenants, dear landlords, it is a profit for both sides if we cancel this fee today. Renters pay less, landlords are free of the administrative burden. Everyone is happy to win for both sides! FPÖ is the reform engine in this Republic. [[Federal Minister Schelling: A anti-economic party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In this case, I'm very happy that you're condoning us for it. [[Call the ÖVP: They are not all your opinion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== October with a voice for the reform engine FPÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28822	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28844	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged calls.]] Mr President, please take it easy first. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has really required a final offer to implement something that is actually contained in the Government Declaration, namely the abolition of the rental contract fee. The Minister mentioned this to me in a reply to a question as the subject of a reform commission. There have been discussions in the financial sector that this fee, which is not covered by any kind of performance, has been abolished. Only the party, which normally imposes benefits on its flags, is still in favour of charging free of charge, i.e. fees for which no service is provided. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] This is once again one of these typical paradoxes, which the ÖVP offers us constantly. But we want more, we do not just want the remuneration of the rental contracts to be lost, we want, as the previous speaker has already suggested, a general reorganisation, a general reconception of the rental right. We have always fought for this, and also for the abolition of rental contract fees, and we now also want to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is a very generally formulated request that you should really support all the good conscience, because you have long known that young people, young families, are suffering from it, that the so-called free market requires them to rent too high. It is not to be seen that you continue to ensure that an intrusive rental right, a rental right that burdens people, is valid and that we have not already implemented and implemented the reforms that have already been implemented in the Government Convention. Mr. Vizekanzler Brandstetter knows how to sing a song for his suffering. The rental law has remained on the track between the interests, and according to my knowledge, the representatives of the real estate industry have negotiated relatively hard. For us Greens, it is totally unacceptable that a small group of real estate representatives of a large group of the population will continue to impose a rental right, which will require up to 30 percent of their income, sometimes even more. That must not be so, and that is why please agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e28923	Mr Moser's request has been properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29064	Mr Dr. Scherak is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29086	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Hanger! I honestly didn't quite understand. You have said that people in your constituency are appealing to you that we should not spend so much money, and I agree with them in principle. The Minister of Finance will now blame me if I return to the pension increase, today on inflation. That's where you agreed to be an ÖVP. And I am entirely of your opinion that we should see where we can save money, how the state no longer throws out money and how we manage to achieve a balanced budget once. But we are not talking here about something where the state is spending money in addition, we are talking about abolishing legal business fees, in the case of the rental contract fee, for which there is no return. When you and I conclude a rental contract, we have to, because we do this, go to father's state afterwards and give him money for it, and that can't make any sense at all. Of course, the Minister of Finance is using it to bring some kind of money into the budget, which is clear to me, but a fee for something for which no consideration is provided is simply unfair and unfair, apart from having it in the government programme anyway. [[Federal Minister Schelling: And why not for commercial rental contracts?]] Why it does not apply to commercial rental contracts, you have to ask colleagues Schrangl why he does not have them inside. With me, Minister of Finance, very much! Abolish the rental contract fee also for commercial real estate, of course! I know from the FPÖ that it is just as we always do at legal fees because it makes no sense because there is no consideration for this, and, of course, that does not belong to it. It is rather bizarre that the ÖVP is opposed here and is not ready to take a sensible measure with which we should have gone on for a long time now at last. In this context, many thanks to Mr Schrangl, who has carried on this, that it is finally coming, he has done so just before the election. This is something positive for the tenants in this country and a measure that has been overdue for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29122	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1780 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on living for everyone. Who agrees? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[00:58:10]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2298/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in palm oil – cheap fat with expensive consequences (1777, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29190	So we come to the 17th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A theme that is in the truest sense of the word in all mouths: Palm oil has initially been found to be sluggish, almost unnoticed, and then increasingly in the manufacturing industry. It has pushed out other products and can now be found in an enormous width in our food, in our remedies, in many other products, as well as in cosmetic products. This has led to the fact that many domestic fats such as milk fat and so on have been pushed more and more out of the market and that the global palm oil cultivation areas have grown enormously – in ecologically often catastrophic forms and under dramatic social conditions for those who have had to and still have to do the work on site. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Intensifyingly, there are more and more reports that there are also health risks that are always proven and found in palm oil. Of course, all of this has changed a lot in the market too. It was also a dramatic situation for our farmers, especially those who have been at home in this market segment for many years, decades, often to be pushed out of this market. This density of messages has really brought us together in the Committee, based on a request from Mr Brunner, to present here a joint all-party resolution request, which is essentially about increasing work on two levels in the future. One is the national level, it is a national strategy to ensure that the products containing palm oil become palm oil free. First of all, it is essential that all other options to reduce health risks are taken, and that palm oil should not be used in future in Austria in feed. Furthermore, of course, standards should finally be implemented at European level, especially as regards health risks, and limit values should be considered safe. In addition, I am convinced that in the future it will only be possible in the future to be able to mix fairly in a free market, even if it is under fair conditions. What we have to experience again and again here in palm oil or in many other products that are produced under these circumstances is that they are not produced according to social or environmental standards, then they are cheaply pushed into the domestic markets and our high-quality products are replaced and removed from the market. This cannot be in the future, so I am convinced that there can only be a partnership with industry by means of certification for this product in the future. We will look at this, we will push for it to give the domestic products a real chance in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29262	Mr Buchmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29284	Mr President. High house! The unanimous decision in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on ‘Palm oil – low-cost fat with expensive consequences’ is very encouraging. Palm oil is rightly in disrepute, so it is strongly suspected to be involved in the development of cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. The reason for this is the formation of glycidyl fatty acid ester during heating above 200 degrees Celsius or the high content of saturated fatty acids. The consequences are the formation of tumours or the deterioration of blood fat levels. This increases the risk of vascular calcification and diabetes. Palm oil is contained in very many products, in Margarine, partly in butter, biscuits, baby food, bread spreads, chocolate, ready-made soups and many ready-made dishes. In addition to health risks, according to WWF, massive environmental damage and developmental disadvantages can be detected by monoculture. Reports of forced labour of adults and children on palm oil plantations are also particularly shocking. I therefore fully support this request and am pleased with the consensus among all parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this will also be my last day for me at a National Council meeting today, I would like to thank you very much for the cooperation. There would be quite a lot to notice, a lot of positive but also less positive – I do not do so at this late time. But one thing is already my concern: With the Greens I would like to apologise for one or another very sensible request for adjournment. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] Addressed to the EIA, I would like to say: You're really responsible for everything you do, but you're just as responsible for what you don't do. Thank you all and wish you all the best in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29332	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your commitment in the High House and all the good for your personal future and for your family. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29357	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Each year, a million hectares of rainforest are victims of legal or illegal robbery. Indonesia has thus become the world's largest palm oil producer. This non-hazardous cultivation of oil palms not only has disastrous consequences for the environment, for the ecosystem, for endangered animals, but also tragic human fates when thousands of people are forced to work on the oil plantations for a hunger wage and are unable to feed their families. The consequences are poverty and escape, and this leads to migration, as we often experience it at the moment. It is less known – and this has been explained earlier by Mr Buchmayr – that palm oil also poses health risks. Palm oil is by far the cheapest vegetable oil, much cheaper than sunflower oil or rape oil, but it also contains a variety of pollutants, especially glyphyl fatty acid esters. This is a substance that results from refining and releases glycicidol during digestion in humans, which in turn is regarded as a carcinogenic substance in humans. For quantity comparison: According to the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, Palm oil contains 2.9 milligrams of glycidol per kilogram, olive oil or soybean oil contains only 0.3 or 0.4 milligrams per kilogram. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We all know friends, acquaintances or relatives who suffer from cancer or even die. We are often affected and wonder how that was possible, and you feel helpless. What we can do, however, is to take research results such as the recently published Greenpeace test on palm oil seriously and take appropriate measures. Greenpeace had a number of branded products in the Austrian food trade examined health-threatening substances. There were eight of eleven products containing palm oil. If the Ministry of Health now examines the three products for harmful substances – there was milka strawberry chocolate, there was Biomargarine, there was Rama Original – then that is good and right. And it is also right when trading chains such as savings or REWE remove these products from the shelves. What should not happen and what has unfortunately happened to our environmental party, the Greens, is that in the election campaign, one distributes sugar, which is even lined with hardened palm fat. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Hoppala!]] Maybe it's not that good, it just happened. However, to other countries like Norway, for example, there is a rethinking there, it was possible that the consumption of palm oil in the companies was reduced by 75 percent. Italy also follows this path by removing hundreds of palm oil products from the shelves in the supermarket chain Coop. If we are today unanimously adopting this resolution, with which we are mandated by the Federal Government or the competent ministers, they may be committed at national and EU level to reducing palm oil, then, I believe, we are late, but still on the right track. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29393	Mrs Mag. Brunner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29415	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Seers, as far as you're still with us! It is about reducing palm oil, but it is about much, much more, climate protection, protecting the rainforest, reducing land robbery and avoiding human rights violations. Palm oil is now contained in so many products that consumers – yes, we too – do not always come out when buying products. Especially if it is the case that consumers no longer have the opportunity to see through and decide for themselves, policy is required to create framework conditions. That is why we Greens have tabled this request for a palm oil reduction strategy. We Greens have called for a comprehensive palm oil reduction strategy accompanied by forest protection programmes, reforestation programmes. We have also requested that the public procurement of palm oil do not allow the palm oil to be mixed with the agrofuels. Unfortunately, our proposal has been weakened a little in the negotiations in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but we are still glad that there is a common proposal, and therefore, of course, we agree. It is also our request to do so. This is the first step, but, as has been said, even if we decide on this proposal here, it must be implemented as well. Minister! This is our expectation that you will also implement this proposal, which we will adopt unanimously today by a large majority, I believe. That was not always the case in the past. I recall a motion for a resolution on the Energy Efficiency Act which you have not implemented until today. I mentioned it earlier today that there were many, many initiatives in the Environment Committee, most of them from the opposition parties. The government documents we have received in the house were rather smaller adjustments to EU rules. In the next legislative period for environmental policy, I wish to see more train to the gate. I think that's necessary. Unfortunately, Austria no longer has an active environmental policy. I think it's something that Austria always made up that we were environmental pioneers, which one could be proud of. I grew up like this: We are an environmental pioneer country. I was always proud of it and I find it very painful now that you are on the road internationally and the feedbacks get that this is not the case anymore. We Greens have requested over 200 measures proposed by the eco-team – thanks to the Green Eco-Team staff and my colleagues – which were actually all postponed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been no implementation activity since the Paris climate agreement. I can only agree with Mr Buchmayr: You are responsible for what you do, but also for what you do not. In environmental policy, the main priority was the lack of time during the last legislative period. It's got to change! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] We need it not only for environmental policy but also for economic policy. That's an elves you didn't use. In the next legislative period – as I said – more train to the gate! Austria certainly needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate, Energy and Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29477	Mr Bernhard. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29505	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers! The subject of palm oil has been of several concern to us in the Committee on the Environment. Mr Steinbichler has also sometimes dealt with the whole of the National Council. What's this about? – There are more and more issues in environmental policy, of course including health policy, where one knows that it is better and asks how it works better. As regards palm oil, it is relatively clear that as the European Union, we are the third largest palm oil consumer in the world. Before us lies only India and Indonesia, however, where it has a different cultural significance, also in the food industry. We also use it differently than in the regions there. The cultivation involves human rights violations, the degradation of natural resources, the exploitation of humans, animals and landscapes. We promote all of this in a way that we do not have to do with it. Austria can set a good example in the European Union as the third largest consumer. We can, and this is what we want to do in this proposal, in public procurement, to work out the subject of palm oil in an extra way, we do not want to bring in any more funding, and we also want to implement such measures at European level. It is a small proposal, it is a common proposal, but we are doing a little better with it in Austria and Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29541	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29562	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Looking into the regions, we are characterized by strong regional cycles and strong global economic cycles. The principle of sustainability, the three pillars, social, ecological and economic, is intended to serve as a principle to bring together these two phenomena well and to strengthen cooperation in this country. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Social-ecological!]] I see three areas that are important. If you are talking about standards, when talking about raw materials and products, when global currents are there, you have to see if they also meet our standards and whether the production conditions are fulfilled. There I clearly see some great question marks in palm oil. But I also see other projects. For example, if you import eggs from Ukraine, this is a continental problem that is affecting the EU. If you import Puten from other EU countries to different production conditions than we have in Austria, this is a problem for the European Union. Second area: It is very much about labelling. I would like to quote the project of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture “Look at where it comes from!” It is important for consumers to know what is inside the products. It is a question of transparency, and the clear direction of shock is – I believe this is one of ours in this House – that we want to strengthen Austrian products. This is also somehow reflected in this proposal. The third area is the AMA seal. I see there and there the possibility of further developing this programme. That must also be the case, and I see with enthusiasm that the palm oil problem is already being included in the considerations on the AMA seal. So I see that we are on the right path in a good direction and thank you for the interesting discussions. - Thank you, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29610	Mr Palmöl, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29631	Mr President. That's a taferl. [[The speaker places a table on the speaker's desk, on which Orang-Utans can be seen in front of a reddish forest piece.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So you can solve small problems with tenacity!]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I took two products: Unfortunately, the first product with which it started is also traded by an Austrian dairy company, namely Belgian plant spray cream, and the latest product is a product from the pleasure country Upper Austria, organic muesli with palm oil. [[keep a can of spray cream in height]] [[Keep a pack of musli in height]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall only show you this so that we can know how far the bow is stretching! I wanted to start with the rainforest. Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned this: “Land Robbery”, “The Fat Case” – Kurt Langbein. There are enough dokus from which we know what are the most brutal occurrences associated with palm oil. How crazy the world is may be the following comparison. If the litre of motor oil costs up to 40 € today – a litre of motor oil! – to keep the guarantee for the car, and the litre of food oil costs 2 to 3 €, then we know how the world has gone out of the joints. This picture, of course, shows the rain forest and what the rain forest reddening means for the animal world, for humans. [[pointing to the panel standing at the speaker’s desk, on which an Orang-Utan mother with baby can be seen in front of a reddish forest piece]] [[The speaker turns the panel around; seeing is an overcrowded hose boat in the sea.]] There we are at the asylum discussion. These are the refugee boats, these are the economic refugees who cannot live there. One thousand acres of rainforest are rowed per hour. This is not only a climate disaster, but also a disaster for the residential population. Since the area is no longer sufficient in Indonesia, one has already arrived in Africa. The continents are being destroyed. It's a very interesting statement when it was said today: There are 450 glyphosate-free communities. There is no such thing as this at all, which can refer to the maximum application in Austria. But we know that in every community we have palm oil in the food, in cosmetics, in the detergents and everywhere. I am also thinking of the exploitation of the intervention of politics, when one says that one is discussing the tanning of the fries and the schnitzel, but one does not talk about what dangerous frying fat that is fried out in. I think that confirms the previous sketch. Mr Strasser or Mr Strasser, to say now, we are on the right path, "Look where it comes from!": Since 2009, the Quality Seal Act has been adjourned. Who prevents a person from labeling properly? . I do not know any colleague, no colleague, who is opposed to knowing that she/she recognises in the label what is inside that she/she has a guarantee. We don't need new seal of quality. We have a label finish: 150 different seal of quality. There's nothing new to it. We only need to implement the law once. The Quality Seal Act would end this with a blow. The last point I would like to make is: Palm oil is directly linked to the extinction of the rural area. This not only affects milk production. It is always the wrong approach to think that we are only talking about milk fat production here. No, the pig sector is affected, there the farming industry is affected. We need to know, with these palm and coconut fats you can go further, so that native fats, which also grow on the land, rape oil, sunflower oil, are substituted. The very dangerous thing is that the fat is naturally produced with the most brutal chemistry. There are statistics that clearly show that glyphosate production is also increasing to the same extent that rain forest deforestation is increasing. This is a mega-business when it is produced for 30 years with massive fertilizer use. After that, the soils are dead. You can see that at the dokus. That's terrible what's being hired. I would really like to thank all the political groups at this point that, after this tough ringing and again and again, the message has arrived – and I hope that this issue will continue to be dealt with intensively in the next legislative period. Because the danger is: We now see the first ads of supermarkets again in the newspapers that advertise with a product that is palm oil free, but have 800 products with palm oil on the shelf. That is why I very much ask you to continue this campaign. It's a first meaningful start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29703	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the resolution on palm oil which was annexed to the Committee's report in 1777 – cheap fat with expensive consequences. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 221.) [[01:24:51]] 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions pursuant to Section 32e of the Rules of Procedure 4 GOG-NR on the implementation of the request of Dr Walter Rosenkranz, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues on the examination of the birth of the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Monument Office, including his departments in the federal states (1782 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29755	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hell is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, when reviewing the Bundesdenkmalmamt, identified developments which ultimately resulted in 99 recommendations and led to the setting up of a subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the basis of a request from Members Rosenkranz and Zinggl. In two meetings, the responsible subcommittee discussed the allegations against the Federal Monument Office, including its departments in the federal states, and questioned eight persons. There is a committee report which has been unanimously decided by all the political groups. – Thank you for the constructive work in the Committee itself and also for the interviews. I think that the resolution of this subcommittee was very positive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can take one point out of this report. It is about the Memorial Information System and the Monumental Object Information System, which were started on and for themselves in 2009 and should be put into real operation in 2013 but are still not available. The fact is that serious defects – throughout the procurement process, planning and documentation – have occurred at all levels and the matter has not worked. According to the Court of Auditors' report, the cost of this project explodes. Minister of Culture Mag. Thomas Drozdahat noted that there is a million tomb in the competence of the Federal Monumental Office. The Committee report notes that there are already steps taken by the Federal Chancellery to reform the Federal Monumental Office and that the Federal Monumental Office has been instructed to implement the Court's recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen! Many farewell words have already been spoken today. I too can now say goodbye to you in my last speech. Nine and a half years I was allowed to be a member of this House. In my parliamentary years, I was allowed to work in many different committees and in this capacity. My particular focus was on transport, social affairs, public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors. I am now changing to the lower level of the administration and decision-making level of our Republic, to the local level. I have been mayor for two and a half years and will devote myself to this task in the future. Finally, thank you for your support and appreciation. All the best and good luck for the great challenges in the coming years! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29831	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your work here in the House and for your family and your future! All right, all right! The next speaker is Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29855	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an art and cultural nation. We have a diverse museum landscape, a large number of festivals, smaller and larger theatres, many cultural initiatives. That's so to speak, the one side. The other side is that of the outdated structures, the friendly economy, the sloppy handling of compliance rules and also the money of taxpayers. Unfortunately, one must have this impression if one acts as a member of the Committee on Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We had the Burgtheater scandal and also the accusations about the Federal Monument. We have dealt with these two complexes in the subcommittee. Even if the time for the reprocessing of the events in the Bundesdenkmalamt was short, one can say with certainty: Unfortunately, the Court's accusations have a solid basis in the structures. What were the main findings of our work? On the subject of the lack of maintenance of duties in the event of under-protection, the Federal Office has undertaken to adopt a yearly decision of about 500 to 600. In 2014, for example, it was only 126 monuments that were actually protected. The answer to the question of why the Bundesdenkmalmamt has not even achieved half of its goals also has to do with lack of personnel resources. There, too, the competent ministry or now the Federal Chancellery is not to be discharged from the duty. The Bundesdenkmalmamt as a subordinated department could not simply write out additional posts, but obviously has fought too little for increase. Similarly, there is a lack of a transparent protection strategy, which does not make the achievement of the goal easier. There was much need for discussion on the issue of the introduction of the IT systems DEMIS and DOBIS. The costs arising from the rowing, the date of the introduction of these systems, which should have already taken up operation in 2013, the lack of human capacity with experience in the IT department of the Federal Office, the award of contracts – at the time from the BMUKK – the disciplinary proceedings against one of the two responsible officials and the own- some fact that the disciplinary ad against the head of the section was only refunded four days after the expiry of the limitation period: All this allows the acceptance of some illegal acts, of incoordination and of a particularly faulty and faulty management, both on the side of the ministry and on the side of the Federal Office. And that ICG was involved in the DEMIS/DOBIS project on the one hand and was also commissioned to evaluate the BDA, at least allows for the conclusion of a lack of sensitivity in compliance issues. What, then, are the lessons of this committee? – From the point of view of the EIA, structural reform is urgently needed. In a construction with subordinated departments, particular attention must be paid to understandable processes, professional communication and in reality also to truly feasible and feasible strategies for under-protection. Shared and not clearly defined responsibilities pose the risk of failure. Therefore, it is not particularly fair from our point of view when it is now being tried to shift all responsibility to the Federal Monument Office. In any case, it will be an important task of the next government to do everything to shape the monument protection in such a way that the built cultural heritage of Austria remains, but at the same time to set out measures that owners not only have the choice between the decay of the building substance on the one hand or the economic fiasco on the other side. In any case, the Committee has worked well. He has for the first time drawn up a joint report, which I see as a very positive sign in a time of heated debates. Ladies and gentlemen, the last item on the agenda on the last plenary day in this period is the last opportunity for me to say goodbye to all of you. I wish the Members who are re-entering the newly elected National Council a great deal of success in the work in the interests of the Austrians. I wish those who finish their political career, all the good in the new life span, and enjoy the regained free time. I would like to thank the club staff members of the ÖVP Parliament Club for their excellent service. Of course, a very great thank you goes to my parliamentary staff, who have accompanied and supported me with great support for these nine years. I would like to thank all of you for the good cooperation and appreciative talks. It was a great honor and joy to work for the Austrians. There were nine exciting, partly also very challenging years for me, but it was always a great honor and joy to be active in the House. In this sense, everything is good again. Thank you for the good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29916	Dear Mrs. Colleague, also to you everything, all good, for you personally and for your family. Thank you for your commitment to this High House. Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e29941	Mr President. High house! Yes, we will hold this debate at a later hour. We had an objection debate at the beginning of the plenary session. Mr Zinggl wanted to have this point on the agenda earlier so that Mr Pilz can still listen, but it is obviously a bit too late for him today. Mr Zinggl, you will have to do without Mr Pilz's applause today, but that does not matter. We have this debate on a day when the media reports have shown us that the USA and Israel have left UNESCO. This is remarkable in this respect, since UNESCO is of course also concerned with the protection of cultural goods worldwide. UNESCO grants the predicament of the World Heritage Site, and in Austria we see a lot of things in the arrogance of the Federal Monumental Office. I'm just mentioning the project Heumarkt. Generally speaking, the Bundesdenkmalamt is somehow under the supervision of the citizens, who say that the great can judge it at the Monumental Office – such as Hazelsteiner or other investors – the little ones are punished. For example, a winegrower in the Wachau, who wants to grow in business, is punished by the protection of the monument, he must not enlarge his plant. In this context, perhaps also to the consciousness of the monument: We have already heard, we are a cultural nation, we are proud of our cultural treasures. We are proud of our buildings, our historic ensembles. But what is actually being done by the State in general for this? – By the way, the tourists come to us and look at this. But for example, a tourism community like Dürnstein in the Wachau: There are no ways to say that we would like solar panels on the roofs, we would like to have very special windows with special insulation values, we would like to have very special insulations, for example on our facades. This is not due to the monument protection. However, there is no promotion of such energy-saving methods either. A second problem has arisen as a result of the debate on the issue of the rent rate limit. I've been talking to a lot of homeowners: If the whole thing, as in this case, is also a listed house and I clean it up to rent, then I don't get through economically with rental prices like this. These are not slabs that come in any form. [[Abg. Willi: Our model sees this balanced!]] – That’s your model then, but the upper limit is what it looks like. [[Calls.]] - Yeah, they're all coming later. Whether it's the last speech or not, you can still talk. We are now coming to this small committee of inquiry, this subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions. It was really – and it has already been carried out in detail – scandalous what has been done under the protective cover of the Federal Chancellor's Office: the computer database for years not in operation, examined, analysed, continued work, subsidized and paid under the title of research projects, because otherwise it would not have been possible for the budget; no overview of the file situation, of the payments of funding et cetera. In all cases, decisions have not been adopted in the light of lack of personnel. There's been ads. There are strange examples of how this has been handled. For example, even if it was not a problem at all, it is said that persons A, B and C are close to a particular political direction or to an association as members. You could say that's not really anybody's business at all, that's private. – No, but the answer is as follows: Aha, A, B and C are supposed to be there, we give the Minister and the Court of Auditors an answer, the person Y is not there. So, with such fairness, the report is working there. For example, it is completely uninteresting for the Monument Office whether restorers have been sentenced for price agreements. That's what they say: We don't know, we don't get the information, we don't know, we don't care. These are the restorers, however, who would like to see the citizen who wants to carry out a project in a listed object, in the sense of: You can only work with such qualified persons! This leads to the fact that there is a very limited circle of restorers, contractors, experts who come to the monument office at all. I asked, for example, whether there are specific lists where you can see who is qualified for them. The first person, a high-ranking member of the Federal Office, said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then the next person comes, I ask them if there are lists, says this other, also high-ranking person: Of course, such tricks are carried out! – So it has already happened to us that the left hand really does not know what the right hand is doing. That there exist certain close relationships of relative nature, Nepotism, that is, out of all joints, out of all cracks. Finally, the question arises why, especially with the head of the section, who has already played a correspondingly negative role in the Burgtheater affair, the disciplinary procedure was initiated four days too late and the matter is therefore delayed. On the other hand, a second-class department leader was really able to sink in, that was no problem at all! However, we are now standing on a small “trumble pile” that was created there – under the quotation mark – but the Bundesdenkmalmamt as an institution must be important for Austria. It is therefore about how to deal with certain things in the future: It is about compliance guidelines and human resources. It has also been mentioned that the Federal Monumental Office should be changed in any form, since there are already the first desires of national leaders. That can't work! – Mr Rädler, do you know who is waiting here for the speaking time? [[Abg. Rädler: Talk time!]] – Not you, but the President, do you understand?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Rädler: He shook his head!]] That's how it works: One directs – and the other only makes senseless calls, and that is usually the colleague's colleague. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] So there's no change. It's interesting: When it comes to the desires of national leaders, this is always a reflection by Mr Rädler. He has already learned this from Erwin Pröll and now continues with Mikl-Leiter. He always takes it as a personal insult and has to throw himself into the break immediately, even if it doesn't fit from the content at all. This is a small reflex, something like this is also known from certain areas of behavioral research. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Countrying does not come into question: The monument protection in Austria, Gothicism in Austria, if you want to treat it, must be treated equally between Lake Constance and Lake Neusiedlersee. – Apart from the need for very high expertise in these areas, it would be a very clear achievement if every federal state now afforded its experts for the individual areas. My appeal for the future: I hope that in the field of culture, as a whole, a little further in the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30026	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30047	Mr President. Mr Rosenkranz has already said a lot, basically one can only agree with him. The Federal Monumental Office is set up to ensure the preservation and protection of our national architectural and cultural monuments – but in this committee, insane abuses have been revealed: Substances have been delayed for years, and in no year has the proposed under-protection rate been reached. Owners of objects were comforted or did not even get a bad message. There is a database with 4 million € budgeted, since we are already at over 10 million €! With regard to the procurement obligations, I once asked the Committee whether there was a substantial breach of applicable contract law and then the answer came: Yes, it was! So that was almost a cabaret. It has also happened that money has already been paid out and an application has only been filed afterwards – that was all. That's where you have to say: In fact, there must be a complete reorganisation. However, we are quite clearly opposed to a breakdown. What it takes is a reorganisation and a restart, but in no case a breakdown!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30081	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the opposition parties: It was still Mr Zinggl for the Greens at the time and, I believe, Mr Rosenkranz, who made the Small Investigation Committee possible. We could already see from the Court of Auditors' report that there is a lot in the dark, and so we had the opportunity to bring light into the dark. A great deal has already been said about what was criticized by the Court of Auditors, which we then looked at even more closely. I am also of the opinion that in the Federal Monument Office there has been a no-necessary oversupply of the employees, there has been no support from the President, it has not started a call for help in time and has not said that all of this is no longer going on. She also did not inform the politically responsible minister in time. Of course, I also see a responsibility with the Ministries: That was the BMUKK at the time and then the Bundesdenkmalamt, which did not make the control in depth enough. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also my last speech that I will not belong to the next National Council. I have been a Member of Parliament for nine years, but have spent a total of 17 years in the House: I have 2000 as a parliamentary employee of Caspar One started and was allowed to press later by the then President of the National Council Barbara Prammer be. It was a great honour for me to be able to work for these two politicians. I then came to the National Council in 2008, first for the Styria, for the district of Liezen. I have been strongly committed to rural areas, later I was responsible for art and culture and last year also for start-ups. In total, I spent 20 years in federal politics, i.e. half my life. It was exciting, exciting, intense, instructive and also eventful years – but now it is time for me to take a new path to accept a new professional challenge. I would like to thank all those who have accompanied me in recent years: of course the colleagues in the political group, the colleagues in the parliamentary club, my parliamentary staff, but also the cultural speakers of the other political groups. I've always had great fun working with you, it's been a great pleasure to me! Privately, I have now founded my own start-up, which will come into the world in March. [[General condolences.]] Thank you. This will then require my attention before I start a new job next year in autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30153	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your work on this House. They were on the side of Barbara Prammer, who had a very strong influence on us all – an impressive woman. – For your personal start-up, I wish you all the best! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30184	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too am holding my last speech today, but I would nevertheless like to start with the Court of Auditors' report and take a short look at it. It has already been said in the debate today that it is indeed the case that the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors reports are a bit of a momentary existence with regard to the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I asked you a question. – Mrs. Moser, the committee president, will certainly speak later. I express it with caution, because I think it is particularly important, from the point of view of the opposition parties, to be stubborn when it comes to drawing up the agenda. Again and again I hear: There's no way we're back in the back. No one asked. So I ask those who are very important for certain things to be dealt with prominently, to remain firm and strong. Of 124 reports available over the last four years, 85 have come to Parliament, and they have been negotiated at 43 committee meetings. That is one of the most intensive committees we have, and it is an important committee. It is not only a control instrument, it is also important for the ministries. It was also our internal goal to pressure at least our ministries, to stop the mistakes that have occurred and to learn from this report. I would like to go, I have decided a long time ago to leave Parliament, but I feel a little hurt when I do so. Think that the ex-Court Court President, who is so objectively applicable and extra-party, whom we all greatly appreciated and, as I hope, will continue to appreciate, will now come to Parliament. This is likely to be too small for him, and he will switch directly to a ministerial office if that goes out as many of the plans. 1 008 proposals he has left behind – a thick convolut, which will probably bring a wealth of applications and exert enough pressure to make improvements. This work is a very important one and I was very pleased. I would also like to thank, especially our members of the Court of Auditors, our secretary, all the secretaries in our club, who have been very supportive of us all years, personally. Especially the specialist speakers Kurt Schober used to be an educational speaker and Christian Götz at the Court of Auditors did this very well and kept an overview. I have already said one thing in committee: I regret that the President of the Court of Auditors was neither in committee nor here today. Dear friends, this must not happen! It is an unwritten law that the President of the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors has to be present when the reports are discussed here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] This is a very important request that we should make in this regard. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say: I have already cleared my office half the time, I have taken two or three Court of Auditors reports as a reminder, because they are also a reference work for many other political activities, even if one is no longer active in politics, but still wants to inform itself – whether the income reports are or other things that are entirely important for the future. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Parliamentary Directorate – I have already mentioned the club – and all the Members of this House. I am also grateful to the two clubmen I have been able to experience in my work, Josef Cap and Andi Schieder, who have always left us a lot of freedom and have supported us very much in the parliamentary work. Thank you both so much! It's like this: If you have the opportunity to be active in the community, country and federal government, you can learn one of election struggles and tribal tables: I mean, it's very important that we political mandates do not lose pride and also stand at the tribal table – or wherever else – our husband or wife and stand to our conviction. Finally, we are elected by those who trust in us, and this is the most important thing that can be given to young Members, whether they are re-elected or re-elected: It is important that we are proud of our profession! Pride Members are self-confident Members, and self-confident Members also create a self-confident Parliament. That is what I wish you and all those who are re-elected. Above all, I wish you a good health too! “Health is not all, but without health everything is nothing.” – I wish you health, a good hand, good luck, energy and joy in further political activity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30266	Ladies and gentlemen, you have shaped this House for years, thank you very much for your work in the House and everything, all right! The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30292	Mr President. I am really positively surprised because I actually thought it would be 2:00 until this item on the agenda comes to the meeting – but it's half two, and that's great. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is the fungus coming back at 2:00?]] The pleasant thing about this time is that the negotiating tone is so calm, almost hypnotic. There's a good way to focus on what's being said. The Subcommittee has certainly done a good job, no question at all. He pointed out, above all, that there is an enormous need for action – but I lack the solutions that have not been discussed. In any case, these are not to be found in the final report, and there are a number of them, for example at the legal level. I'm just calling a few examples where there's really a lot to do. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Cultural landscape is a term that is completely lacking in the law. That's going on today, and I'm just telling you one example: The law requires an object to be protected if there are few of them in a regional area. For example, if there is only one Art Nouveau building in Vienna, it must be protected. Why isn't that right? – There are a lot of castles and castles in the forest district, so you could actually take some of them off, but this is of course a nonsense, because the cultural landscape as a whole consists of these many castles and castles and that is actually the object of the shooter. Another story is environmental protection, which is much too weakly illuminated in the law. Let me give you another example: If today were to be built around the St. Stephen's Cathedral 200 meters high, then the St. Stephen's Cathedral would be protected, but its value would probably be minimized. Therefore, environmental protection is important, for example, at the church of Charles, where it does not really take care of what is actually to be protected. Another issue is this uneven decision in the absence of protection. Why do the building lions, the sponsors, make it easier for investors to withdraw the protection as any owner who has little influence and receive restrictive conditions? – Well, there are many reasons, but one reason also results from the legal situation. The law is intended to protect cultural property, but the law also shows economic reasons for the removal of this protection. This is, of course, a conflict of interest on the part of the Monument Office, which is an insanity. In my opinion, the Monument Office has a single task: to establish the cultural historical value and then to protect it! Another story is that with the artistic economy, with nepotism, with the partiality. The Internal Revision writes to us: Since the market of craftsmen is very small, this is difficult and so on. So first of all, because Mr Rosenkranz said something about this: There's a list – I know this list, I have a part of this list even here – it's a long list of craftsmen, gilders, art tables, stucco-stylers that are on this list and have all the best references. But even if there were only a few craftsmen, it would be even more a reason to let everyone get in when they have all the references, and not always the same ones. In my opinion, there must be – and that does not mean – human consequences. I'm telling you, it's If there's something going wrong, those responsible need to be exchanged. What's missing? – There is no obligation to provide information. The notices shall be kept under cover. As the owner I can read the notice of course, it is logical anyway, but if I believe that this monument should not lose its protection, then I do not know if that has not already happened. I can't even see the notice until the object has been torn away sometime. The next point: the role of civil society – similar to that of consumer protection. It can't be that the only ones who can object are the owners and the mayor or the head of state. If the mayor or the governor and the owner are one and the same person, then there is only one person who can object, and if this person receives a positive notice for the demolition, then no one will protest at all. This clearly involves something changed. Finally, and then I'm done: Tax deductibility is in no way addressed. The tax deductibility of private individuals investing in this monument protection, which invests a lot of money in order to obtain something worth protecting, is quite important. Otherwise, the following – and this is really happening very often – happens: The owners just let the buildings fall off until the monument says: Now we can't protect anything, because now there's nothing left! – It can't be! I think that for ten years I have put forward proposals which have always been postponed. The very simple solution would be: tax deductibility of these investments. This helps us economically and culturally. Thank you for saying a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30339	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30360	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This was now a debate in which one has become almost a bit sad, in view of so many farewell speeches. This is almost like a self-resolution of the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. So I hope it doesn't have anything to do with the Presidency, that now you all mean simply – not evil! I am very happy and also enthusiastic and a bit proud of the fact that this committee is working so objectively and constructively, in a calm and consistent attempt to get the matter to the bottom. And I would really like to thank all the political groups and all those who have been there. This is not a matter of course when it comes to political issues when it comes to the waste of tax money that we are working so well together. However, if you want it, you can see it, and that is something I very much appreciate because I come from the area of financial control. You notice, you only get something on it or there are solutions only when you try to work together. That's the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The topic of waste tax: I would like to break a lance for the Court of Auditors at this point, whose employees are really meticulously precise and objectively drawing up their reports, which are really an excellent basis for work for us in Parliament. I will try to continue to do so in the next legislative period, so that these stories, which the Court of Auditors shows in its works, can be changed or changed in a reasonable way. The issue of waste tax is always covered by facts at the Court of Auditors. I would like to take a bite on the ÖVP, because that really is what Mr Hanger told me about today. All the time, the ÖVP has been trying to teach us that before the elections we are no longer allowed to take decisions that are relevant to the budget. – You have nothing to say to us, estimated ÖVP, because contrary to your waste of tax money, which the Court of Auditors has already shown meticulously in many reports, we are doing something for the people, and this is not a waste of tax money, as you do. - That's one thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Hanger claims that he is so much in the constituency and hears from the citizens that in 2008 so much money was spent on the last plenary day. So that's what I want to see what citizens tell you about it. You're telling us what you want to hear! You obviously don't understand the people. What the citizens tell me is that they want you to be properly decimated once, so that once a successful government is established, in a form with the FPÖ. That's what we want to hear, and not what you're telling us. – Thank you, nice evening and good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30412	Now Mrs. Dr. Moser has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30433	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This top-primary tone is not to evocate you – let's get to the point! A key concern of all of you is, according to the Constitution, not only the legislation, but also the control, and this key issue, according to my experience, is something underdeveloped by many of you, is hidden or ignored. Thank God there are sincere Members also in the Court of Auditors who take this seriously at least in committee, and the work in the Subcommittee, Mr. Zanger, was always exquisite under your leadership. I have also been able to draw up numerous subcommittees of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This has been a long latte of ÖBB speculations, privatizations, AUA, Burgtheater and so on and so on, and that's bonework every time! In contrast to other committees – I have a bit of an overview after twenty years of Parliament’s experience, I think almost every committee has been looked after once – the Court of Auditors is relatively laborious for me because I am supposed to read reports – I don’t have to say, should – and should also discuss matters. And this core task, this effort, my goodness, is being carried out differently. There is a central field, for example the income report, which represents the situation of the Republic in two variants. There is the income report of the average population, and there are the income report management salaries. And here we in the Committee always have the experience that all Members of the Court of Auditors, no matter what party, whether ÖVP, SPÖ, Liberals, Greens, NEOS, are quite of the opinion that it is massively disturbing to us and that we see it as a political task, that the gap between the poor and the empire, which is growing more and more, should be countered, and that we must finally act politically, so that this development is stopped or gradually reversed. Yes, we have an opinion in committee. But what if it is to implement recommendations that the Court of Auditors makes over and over again? – For example, in the case of this income report management salary, this is still worth remembering: Mrs Schittenhelm, you were heroic and you said that is – I don't want to say piggy now, because then I get an order call – not to accept it; let's say so. There you were in the committee heroic; I have to correct that. But this is often so with the representatives of the government groups: in the Committee of our opinion, in the plenary. In particular, the decommissioning party has particularly close and dense shackles with its Members when it comes to amendments which may be proposed after consulting the Court of Auditors. Mr Haubner is a sufferer of my will for change. I would like to present this briefly as an anecdote, so that you know how this republic is ticking; I am done immediately. Indeed, we have made a request that incomes should be transparent in areas close to the state, which are to be published in the direct state sector. It's common on the stock exchange. There is little competition in close-to-state and state-owned enterprises, but there is the great virtue over it. It's intrusive what top managers deserve. The Republic is the owner, so it is thought that Parliament can decide as a representative of the Republic. Well, we're making the request to go to the ÖVP; the SPÖ is fortunately for that. Klubobmann Lopatka is also responsible for this, provided that Mr Haubner is in favour of it. So I go to Mr Haubner, and Mr Haubner has to ask if he is allowed to do so. It takes half a year and longer for the answer to this question: I can't! Then you think: Who are you going to? You can't just go to the forge, you have to go to the upper forge, not just to the economic alliance in Parliament, no, you go to the head of the Economic Federation. You get an appointment. Then he sits there in the two rows, beautifully dressed, polished footwear, and one tells him the problem: On the stock exchange it is transparent, in the Republic it is not transparent, and the Economic Federation in Parliament prevents the transparency of management salaries in the public and state sectors, although it is common on the stock exchange. One asks: Why? – You get from the Lord with the polished shoes, which is slightly dodging, even no answer why this is so, but you get the answer – please listen carefully –: That's the owner's business! And then the cat bites in the cock! We are the owners' representatives, and we cannot, because the Economic Union does not want. We go to the Economic Federation and ask why it is not possible. Then there's no answer, but it's just: The owner is supposed to take care of it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Thus, as a representative of the people, we are made of a small layer, of a minimal layer, of the minimal layer, which exists by these managers in the near-state area, bound, mouth-deaded, disabled and still, like the poor Mrs. Schittenhelm in the community, must hold the head for the transparency policy of three, four, five people in the height, at the top, in the sky of the Economic Federation. That's the Republic, and so tick it! And that's why I still stand here at 2:00 a.m. in front of you in order to remind you of this little example, no, to present it, so I have to say. And if we don't finally retort this clan and client policy of the past and get rid of it so to speak, then it really says: Good night, Republic! [[Abg. Arbitrators: If it still takes a long time, it's: Good morning!]] That is what I am deliberately saying now, because in itself we are a democratic republic and should uphold parliamentaryism and not client policy. What we need is the emancipation of Members, the intellectual understanding of Members, a self-confidence in the sense of the general good and not of the kissing, serving and somehow increasing income to small circles. Finally, I would like to thank specifically the staff in the Parliamentary Library, which – I have stopped anyway – have cut short some long sessions through their good reading, due to their good books. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] I thank President Hofer for calling for an order...
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30476	Ladies and gentlemen, you have to come to the conclusion that the speaking time of your group has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30497	Bravo, Madam President! Thanks to President Hofer, who missed me a call for order, although I didn't say a syllable!
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30535	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Court of Auditors, the report by the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG in 1782 to take note of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of taking note of this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request from the Court of Auditors to take note of his report in 1782. Who is expressing his support for this note? – This is also unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[02:11:58]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30587	We come to the vote on the request of Mr Dr. Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 412/A by Mr Dr. Hable, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until 19. ==References== Who is in favour of this request for a deadline? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[02:12:27]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30616	Finally, I say that the fourteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[02:12:37]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2017-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00199_d8e30644	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We are now ending the final ordinary meeting of the National Council of XXV in a few minutes. legislative period. For some of you, this was the last meeting today, for some of them who have exercised their mandate for many years, also a very moving meeting, because they will actually end their career as Members of the Austrian National Council. It was, I think, a really extraordinary legislative period that lies behind us. We also had a number of unforeseen challenges to overcome. It was first at the beginning of a legislative period that Parliament made up of six political groups; today it is five political groups. It is the first time that Parliament has 14 Members who do not belong to clubs. It is also true for the first time that no single club represented here in Parliament still has the same number of mandates that have arisen after the 2013 election result. I think that shows that these last four years have been marked by a number of upheavals. However, allow me also to say that there has been a particularly moving moment for this House and for all of us, namely as only nine months after her re-election of the President of the National Council Barbara Prammer has lost her so bravely fought against cancer. I would like to hold for all of us today at this last session in this GP: It will always be remembered to all of us as an outstanding parliamentarian. Ladies and gentlemen! The name Barbara Prammer, of course, will continue to be closely linked to the renovation of this House. We have been put before this task and, I believe, they will be as well mastered as the transfer here to these premises, because there has been this great consolidation here in the National Council, because there has been such a thing as a great consensus for a necessary general renewal of the Austrian Parliament at the ring. I wanted to stress this because this example, of course also to countless others, shows that, even if we sometimes have very strong discussions a few days before the election, there is also a great unity in this House on individual topics. Finally, I would like to remind you that almost every third law – that is, almost a third of all the laws that we have passed here – was unanimously decided that in many areas we were also working together to implement something like a new Parliament. We have opened our doors and gates to people who had no access to Parliament in the past. We have opened the doors and gates to former home children who have become victims of violence and abuse, and we have unanimously decided on a home-sacrifice pension for them. We have unanimously and unilaterally opened our doors and doors for apprentices and, in addition to the student parliament, we have created an apprenticeship parliament. On the day of the open door we opened the doors and gates for artists, for writers. And together we have always held our commemorative day against violence and racism here in this House, to which we have also invited the last witnesses. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all of you for this today. I would like us to see this spirit of the open Parliament as we do in the XXV. The legislative period has lived, and also the spirit and the genuinely honest will and the honest commitment that we want to adopt laws here that facilitate people's lives, which lead to an improvement in the living situation of people in our country, will also take them to the next legislative period. First of all, I should like to thank the two Presidents of the National Council, the Second President Karlheinz Kopf and the Third President Norbert Hofer, for the fact that we have managed the Federal President's duties for 202 days in great professionalism, as I believe, but above all in a very large collegiality. I would like to thank the members of the general presidential conference, in which we have always succeeded, even though sometimes in a slightly longer debate, in defining the procedures here in the House, so with all the club members and club chairmen, with the club directors who have done a lot of work in the preparation, and of course with all their employees. I would also like to thank Parliament's Directorate. I would like to thank Dr. Harald Dossi, the Director of Parliament, and all the many people who make sure that we can perform our processes so smoothly or to a large extent smoothly. Finally, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, especially those who may not be present in the House during the next legislative period. Thanks also to your employees and, of course, your families. I wish you all the best. [[General condolences.]] [[2:19]] The sitting is closed. Good night!
