tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we begin the negotiations, I'd like to briefly share my thoughts and opinions with you, dear lawmakers and our dear people. Dear lawmakers, dear people, in this first session as Deputy President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to first thank my friends, who have put me in charge of this mission, from the past that brought us to this Parliament, to the very precious work of all our comrades and our people. I give this torch to each and every one of our countless friends who have lost their lives in the struggle for peace and democracy, with infinite gratitude and respect. We bear witness to a time when all that is in the name of mankind has been set on the target of wars, when the ancient peoples of the Middle East have been subjected to unspeakable suffering and slaughter, when thousands of women have been sold in slave markets, when young children have struck our shores. On the other hand, I'm afraid all these disasters are left on our own soil. 28 great civilizations were born and developed, and many ethnic and religious identities lived together, and all the major religions were home to our land, our land of death, the land of slaughter, the home of plunder. For months hundreds of thousands of people have been imprisoned in their homes, deprived of basic life requirements, their homes, places, homes, and even graves. Our citizens are being subjected to death. The bodies of our murdered citizens are being exposed and dragged along the streets. Our country has been transformed into a huge prison where everyone's out on parole. In our history of social disintegration, violence has become deeper than ever before, violence has settled on all sides of life, illegality has been completely normalized. Dear lawmakers, there is nothing more tragic than the search for a country's salvation in the politics of killing and destroying a country than the bloodshed of its children on its land. We are responsible for all the evil that is going on in this country, all the suffering, and we will be guilty of the same amount of responsibility that we do not carry out. Therefore, the burden of this Parliament is heavy and has great historical significance. It is the responsibility of Parliament to hear the cry of the people rising from the dead, to establish peace, peace and prosperity in this common land, where we have been together for thousands of years. A virtuous policy has no choice but to serve the peace of the country and the world. Because human history has shown that there has never been a good war, a bad peace. For my part, I would like to say that I will do my duty in the name of all the different parts of our people without discrimination. Therefore, I pledge to treat all of our MPs equally, regardless of their gender, identity and opinion, that I will never give up neutrality, and I will never allow any member to be discriminated against at the time of the Parliamentary General Assembly's work, because of their differences, to be harassed, prevented and insulted. In particular, I would like to make it very clear to you that male rhetoric and behavior based on gender discrimination will never be tolerated by me in the sessions I chair the presidency. Therefore, I would like to ask that the members of the General Assembly, during the work of the General Assembly, do not give up respect, endurance, rights and kindness under any circumstances, and I salute you with love and respect. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now in session. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, Minister of National Defence, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. There is an off-the-book request for the Turkish military presence in Musul, according to Article 59 of the Interior Charter. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I'll make a promise to political party groups at their request. Their talking time is 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups. Come in, Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0002par0025	Mr. President, I'm here to inform you about the military training activities we've been conducting at the Bashika camp and the recent developments in this context. I salute you and our citizens who are watching over us on television. Mr. President, lawmakers, the main purpose of our defence policy is to ensure national security. In this direction, we are taking every necessary step towards the peace and stability of our country, and we will continue to take it. It would be appropriate to assess the recent events in these frameworks. There is a direct link between the developments in neighbouring countries and Turkey's domestic peace, the safety and well-being of our citizens. In this framework, we work hard for the establishment of peace and stability in countries around us. In this regard, one of the most important countries for Turkey is Iraq. In the past 30 years, every crisis that Iraq has experienced has had heavy consequences for our country. Therefore, it is in the interest of our national interests that Iraq becomes a prosperous peaceful country. Unfortunately, Iraq is deeply divided and unstable. Troubles in Syria over the past four years have made efforts for the establishment of stability in Iraq even more difficult. Iraq's Al Qaeda, which lost great power four or five years ago, was revived with the crisis in Syria. In this terrorist group, the DEA has exploited ethnic, religious and political fault lines in Iraq. After all, our country has become an open threat to our region and the international community. Dear lawmakers, Mr. President, the threat posed by the DEA is based on the control of one-third of Iraq's territory and the capture of a strategic, economic and logistically critical province, such as Mosul. As a result, the stability of Iraq is being neutralized. This is possible only by the removal of the strategically important Mosul (Musul) from the DEAS. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the question we need to look for at this point is who can take Mosul back, with what powers and with what capacity. It is not possible to explain the experience and the ability of the DEA to control one third of Iraq at a speed that surprised the entire world in the summer of 2014. Since 2003, when the international community spent extensive resources in Mosul, the forces of the Iraqi army in Mosul gave Musul to the DEAŞ, without any resistance. State-of-the-art products of the weapons industry were left under the control of the DEASH by the Iraqi army. In the face of the DEAS attack, the Iraqi army, almost all of them Shiites, did not regard the Sunni province of Mosul (Musul) as a homeland, nor did they put a single bullet to defend the land. In response, the local people of Mosul had no resistance to the DEA in their frustration and anger over the years of the central government's exclusionist and sectarian politics. So, when considered as a whole, one of the main reasons for the progress of DEAS in Mosul is in Iraq, and the other is the practices of religious central administration, which excludes groups. Mr. President, the good lawmakers, the outcome is clear. Local people and forces are the only group to be trusted in the disarming of the DEAS. In areas such as Mosul, it is imperative that the public be convinced that the post-DEAS period will not be like the past discrimination in order to contribute to the fight against DEASH. That's why both the Iraqi National Assembly and the Iraqi Government have been working hard to bring the idea of national guards into effect for a long time. However, the National Guard Bill of Law cannot pass the Iraqi Parliament because of the constant obstructions of some circles in Baghdad, which are directly responsible for the current situation of Iraq. Mr. President, our country began training volunteer forces to form the core of the Musul national guard in March 2015, in light of the importance of local size in the fight against the existence of the DEASH in Iraq. This support was implemented on the call of Etil Nuceyfi, then Governor of Mosul, and on the knowledge of the Iraqi government. Iraqi Defence Minister El Ubedi also visited the camp and expressed satisfaction. I'd like to rephrase that the Iraqi government has been informed of our activities in the capital since the beginning of the process. The United States authorities have also been informed of our work in Başika. The training of 2,441 personnel has so far been completed in Başika, as part of training carried out publicly by the Iraqi government and public knowledge. Of these, 1,040 have been found in the Bashika camp for higher education. In addition, 2,308 pessimers were trained in different locations. Likewise, about 16,000 Iraqis have been trained by 15 countries of the coalition. America teaches there, Germany teaches there; Australia teaches there; Belgium teaches there; Denmark, Finland, France teaches there; the Netherlands, Britain, Spain, Italy, Hungary teach there; Norway, Portugal and New Zealand teach there. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have also increased the risk of Iraqi Kurdish Regional Government security forces, trained by Turkish Armed Forces, succeeding in Sincar last month and preparing for the military action against Mosul. I think it's helpful to remind you once again that the Başika campsite is a few miles from the DEA and the front line. We deployed reinforcements in the camp on December 4, 2015, considering the safety of our troops in the camp. This deployment is all about supporting the camp's defenses. This move, due to full military necessity, has unfortunately become an instrument of politics in Iraq, due to the provocation and exaggerated news of some focal points. The environments that were uncomfortable with our country's presence in Iraq did not miss the opportunity to exploit it. We quickly took the necessary steps to resolve the issue at a double level and reduce increased blood pressure. We've taken the necessary measures to resolve the matter at a double level and reduce increased blood pressure. In this framework, our Prime Minister sent a letter to the Iraqi Prime Minister Ibadi, on December 6th. Me and our Minister of Foreign Affairs have been on the phone with our Iraqi contacts. In addition, as special representatives of our Prime Minister, our Undersecretary of the MIT and Secretary of State visited Baghdad, where they met with the Iraqi Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of Defence. As a sign of our will to resolve the problem, as of December 14th, a new introduction to our military presence at the camp in Başika. A certain part of the force arrived at the Bamami camp in northern Iraq. I'd like to point out that all of Turkey's openings for the bilateral state of the issue remain unanswered. The Iraqi government also made an intense effort to bring the issue to the international community's agenda. Iraq was the only country in the United Nations Security Council to attend the meeting with the Foreign Ministry, which was called by Iraq on December 18th. Our assessments of our country's views and actions in the face of the claims of Iraq and its practices and approaches to the fight against DEAŞ have been made clear by our permanent representative in the United Nations. Our country's sincere efforts to resolve the problem have been fully explained to members of the Council. After all, the meeting ended without any decisions or results. Iraq also called a meeting of the Arab League Foreign Ministers Council to discuss the issue, which will be held on December 24th. On the other hand, the attack by DEAS on December 16th against Başika Base revealed the rightness of our steps towards increasing the safety of the camp. In the attack where four of our soldiers were injured, two Iraqis were killed, and four Iraqis were injured. During this time, close contact with members of the international coalition continued in the fight against DEAŞ, particularly the United States. During our efforts to reduce blood pressure, high-level phone calls were made to the United States authorities. Mr. President, President Obama of the United States, President of the United States, has been in constant contact with Vice President Biden, while our Foreign Minister has been in constant consultation with John Kerry. Finally, a statement was made by the State Department on December 19th with the approval of our President and Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0003par0040	Speak up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0002par0041	We once again stressed that we respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Iraq. We have stated that we will continue our military contributions to the fight against the DEAS, and that the process, which begins to take place in the Musul province of our troops for protection, will continue.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0003par0042	Mr. Secretary, if you'd be so kind as to inform me. You read, you read.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0002par0043	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are also very careful to protect the sovereignty of our country, the sovereignty of other countries, and the integrity of the land, which is very sensitive to its sovereignty. Nor is it possible to address the concept of sovereignty over a particular piece of land independently of control over it. Since 10 June 2014, the Iraqi government has unfortunately no control over Mosul, and the DEA is in complete control. Our country, which participates in international work as a member of the Anti-Deastrophe Commission, continues to contribute to the bilateral plan, such as many other countries. As I said in the beginning, the main purpose of our operation in Başika is to help Iraq to restore control over the province of Mosul, still under the control of the DEAS. Given the safety of the Iraqi people, friends and brothers, we have shown the will and will to resolve the problem as soon as possible, avoiding unnecessary debates. We have also begun the work of a healthier consultation mechanism between our country and Iraq in matters of military and security. As we have done so far, we will take the necessary steps to eliminate all illegal terrorist organizations that pose a threat to Iraq in the coming period. The safety of our neighbors is our safety, the peace of our neighbors is our peace. Turkey is the country that will benefit most from the bonus of peace if there is peace in this region.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0004par0046	Mr. Secretary, you've done a lot of work in the area on peace.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0002par0047	From now on, we will continue to do whatever it takes for our own stability, prosperity, and peace of mind, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0005par0049	What's wrong, Hajji? What's wrong?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0006par0050	What happened to the result?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0007par0051	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now promise you ten minutes on behalf of the groups. The first speech is from Mr. Umit Özdağ of Gaziantep on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0008par0056	Mr. President, I've been informed that there's an agreement. Make it clear. Let's keep it that way, if you'd like.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0007par0057	Yes, Mr. Özdağ. If you don't finish your speech, I'll give you another five minutes. The document I was given says ten minutes, so I said ten minutes, but I can extend it. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0009par0060	Mr. President, we all see that Turkish foreign policy and the security of Turkey are facing a severe crisis. AKP foreign policy seems to have completely lost the link between Turkey's interests, Turkey's resources and realistic goals. Turkey has lost its deterrent, one of the most valuable tools in foreign policy because it has lost its bond. The Americans have put a sack over our heads, and they haven't paid any price. The Greeks have occupied 16 of our men in the Aegean, there is an actual situation, which has been confessed by the government and has not paid the price. Israeli planes have violated our airspace, left reserve fuel tanks on Reyhanlı, hit a nuclear plant in Syria; they didn't pay the price. The Israeli army raided our ship, killed our people, and now it turns out they're not paying a serious price for it. ISIS has raided our consul general's office, taken our people hostage -- our consul general, our representative -- is sitting here -- and has paid no price for it. And the tomb that we sent to protect the founder of our state during the Battle of Sakarya was not protected, but taken from where it was one night, and thus struck the final nail in Turkey's deterrent. The Russians have seen all of this as elements that encourage us to violate our airspace, and it will not be paid anyway. The idea of Moscow has dominated. We have crashed the Russian plane, we have been deterrent again. Please do not think of it as a moment of deterrent, because deterrentism is not a process, and the decision to withdraw from Mosul has been made, and unfortunately, Turkey's deterrentism has been immediately entered again. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party has never looked at Middle Eastern policies in a shallow way, but the AKP has made Turkey's foreign policy the focus of attention without defining the right national interest. Especially in the Middle East, Turkish foreign policy is sought to continue, not in national interest, but in the framework of idealism established by AKP's ideological interest and in the lack of facts. Although idealism based on this high school excitement is applauded on the streets of the Middle East, there are many times when there is no serious political response. Dear MPs, there is no way to understand how the AKP's policy of the Middle East, which has continued since 2003, came to this day without some principled errors being detected. The first mistake the AKP made was that it believed that the Middle East could shape the Middle East without knowing or understanding its internal dynamics, and that it could be effective in the Middle East. Second, as I have just drawn the framework, the goals are not the national interests of Turkey, but the ideological priorities of the AKP. The third big mistake is that Turkish foreign policy does not insist on standing behind its principles at this time and when it encounters the slightest resistance, it backs down. The fourth big mistake is that he purged Turkmen from Turkish foreign policy. There was a fact of Kerkuk in Turkish foreign policy. Erdogan reacted strongly to changing Kerkuk's demographic structure in February 2007, and explained that Turkey had the right to intervene in Iraq on the basis of agreements between Turkey and Britain in 1926, and between Turkey and Iraq in 1946. Then what happened? Barzani and Talabani took Kerkuk. What was the reaction to that? A great nothing, and contrary, to accept and approve of this occasion. Turkey's red lines in Iraq disappeared, while the disputed event in Middle Eastern geography melted. The final process of AKP's failures in the Middle East is now seen in the attempt to send troops to Başika. First, we complain to the United Nations of Baghdad without meeting with Baghdad, and then we find that the Turkish soldier, who was sent with great encouragement, began to retreat with Obama's exit. Now, I listened to the Minister very carefully. He's trying to make it look more like a tactical military retreat than a political issue. This is trying to cover up the true nature of the event. Unfortunately for Turkey, the situation is simply embarrassing. Mr. Secretary, if Turkey's national interests require sending troops to Başika, why did you withdraw these troops with Obama's intervention, if Turkey's national interests do not require sending troops to Başika? Why did you send them there? You have to give that answer to the Turkish nation. If the agreements dated 1926 and 1946 give Turkey the authority to intervene in Iraq, why don't you keep our troops in Başika on this authority? The government in Baghdad is complaining, why don't you go back to the government in Baghdad and say: "My consulate in Mosul is raided and my people are being held hostage? Where was the Iraqi army? If you sent the Turkish soldier without asking this question, you can't withdraw it, and if you pull it, it will expose an embarrassing situation for Turkey. Moreover, the United Nations Security Council has June 8, 2004, and Resolution 1546. This decision also gives member states the task of preventing terrorist activities and transitions to other countries in Iraq and Iraq. So, based on that, you could have kept the Turkish soldier there, unfortunately you didn't. The reason for these criticism is that at the end of Turkey's process, it will hurt our country, not only the AKP people, the AKP people, the AKP voters, but all of us. This country must quickly rebuild its deterrent, and everyone will try until the end of a Turkey that does not build its deterrent. The Prime Minister's statement is now a joke in international politics.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0010par0074	Mr. Özdağ, I'll give you five more minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0009par0076	I don't need that much, thank you, thank you, Mr. President. Look, if they'd given us a chance, if you hadn't pulled out our soldier, the power of Turkey would have been tested. What's it gonna be? What would have happened if we hadn't pulled our troops out of the capital? Don't tell me that something terrible would have happened. Don't say that. Because if you say something terrible would happen, we'll ask you: Why did you send it? If you don't see a week from now to run a country, then there's a serious problem. Again, at the end of my speech, we believe that the government that rules this country must quickly build our country's deterrent for the happiness, happiness and security of this nation. Because for the next three or four years, there will be a period in Middle Eastern geography where major fractures will come in waves faster than ever and hit our country harder. The massacre in Ankara is nothing more than the explosion of the Middle East civil war in the heart of the capital, and you cannot assure anyone that similar explosions will not occur tomorrow in other cities of Turkey. There is only one guarantee: Turkey is a country that is feared and respected and is believed in its deterrent power. This deterrent is back in history by attracting troops from the Archika. We've been going through this since 2003. It's time to put an end to this. I would like to address the AKP Government on behalf of the National Movement Party: It seems it is time to put an end to the retreat, to bow our heads, starting with a bag over our soldiers at Süleymaniye. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0011par0082	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Sky, you have a request, but if you'd like to finish the words for the group, I'll promise you later.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0012par0084	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you. Now, the second statement, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, belongs to Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you ten minutes first, and five more if you don't finish.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're considering the subject of the capital, and I have made a commitment to that extent. In fact, when you say foreign policy, it sounds like we understand something big about the foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey, but the events in the Middle East, the losses of altitude and these processes have shown us this: do we really have a real foreign policy? At one time, we would take relations with the Iraqi Central Government, we would want everything to happen with the Iraqi Central Government, we would ask the Iraqi Central Government to pass everything. Even in relations with the regional Kurdish administration, we would point to the central government. So everything would go through the Iraqi Central Government. Over the past five years, relations with the central government have been pushed aside, relations with the regional Kurdish administration have been highlighted. Of course, Turkey's problems with Iraq began when relations with the central government were pushed into the background. In Iraq, Baghdad, there is a Shiite government, a dominant Shiite government. We know you're uncomfortable with this stuff. Turkey, unfortunately, has not been able to achieve balance in the region in that time. See, in the last five years, we've even forgotten the number of tribes that we've invited to Turkey -- before we invaded ISIS Mosul, and the north of Baghdad. We invited all the Sunni tribes to Turkey, left the state aside, all the Sunni tribes came to Turkey. They ate, drank, talked, made plans, and vowed to Abu Bakir Bağdadi on 11 June 2014. Look, is this what politics is like? Is that what we're looking at, that we're directing, that we're developing relationships, that the tribe should have come to this conclusion? Because relations with the government have not been developed, the state has been turned away. Look, it's the same thing with the Bashika camp. What's the problem? Why is there a problem with the Bashika camp? Because we didn't want to take these things with Baghdad. He went at the invitation of the former ex-Musul governor, who was discharged, and they went after him. Then he was briefed. But if they were given information, if they were approved -- once, for one thing, information, for another -- and they were approved, why are they against it now? Why do they insist the United Nations Security Council that we report you within 48 hours, what happened? Are they the only hypocrites, are they the hypocrites? Isn't there something wrong with us? On the one hand in our relations with Baghdad, we support the integrity of Baghdad, we support its independence, we do all sorts of things that violate its independence and territorial integrity. Is that what neighborhood policy is like? See, the balances in the region are different, it's not easy to read Iraq from here, it's important to study in the center, where you should study in the field. In Iraq, balances change every day. The best way was with the central government again, because the great states, the great states, the US, Iran, Russia, they're all doing business with the central government, and we passed it on. Now, in the State Department's statement, it is called "Musul" from "integration." It is called "coordinated." What's the departure from Mosul? It means don't move. They can't say it's polite, but they say it's natural. What's "retribution"? It's a withdrawal of soldiers, a withdrawal of soldiers, a retreat of the soldier you sent ten days ago, ten days later, nothing more. There's been a lack of coordination. It's called a lack of coordination. Why did it happen? If it's true, why did it happen? So we've come to a point where we can't even coordinate these relations with Baghdad anymore, and we think that if we try to coordinate, they won't let us, so it comes to this. We need to understand that. The same thing happens in Syria. Once upon a time, no matter what happened, it happened, and then it happened. So what happened? Today, Iraq was divided by ISIS, regional Kurdish administration, and actually by Sunnis. Today the terms of the reunification of Iraq were eliminated. Mr. Secretary just said we want to plan the post-Ishid strategy. What, did we have a pre-Isil strategy so we could plan the rest? (HISIL) For a year and a half, ISIS has been controlling it, there, ISIS has raped people, ISIS has destroyed all cities, looted, ISIS has seized everything; what did you do before ISIS, and what would you do next?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0014par0101	They're sleeping, they're sleeping.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0102	Look, I'm telling you clearly: Turkey must improve its relations with Iraq. We're not against military possession, but what's the point? Why do we keep soldiers there? What if we have a strategy after ISIS? Do we want to make that area a Sunni area? Do we want to take Mosul (Musul) and join the Kurdish regional administration? Do we want to take him back to central administration? What do we want to do? Somebody come out and explain the next strategy to me, please. So we don't know about this? Haven't we been through here? For God's sake, don't kid him! What strategy are you talking about? There is no strategy for ISIS, and there is no strategy after ISIS. The period after ISIS will be more bloody. ISIS will leave because the terrorist organization will never be able to control it forever, somehow the international coalition, local forces will clean it up. Not this year, next year, but there's no future for ISIS, because there's no way that such a vicious organization could possibly have a future there. So, what's our strategy? Why did these soldiers go there? What was their purpose there? If they can save Mosul, will 600 soldiers save Mosul? Or will Mosul be saved by our hand and given to someone? What should we understand from here? Now, here's where the mistake is, look. Second, we are fighting ISIS in Mosul. Where's Mosul? There's a regional Kurdish government at our border that's cutting off Mosul, Mosul's lower. Well, well, there's ISIS on the Mare-Cerablus line, Syria's our neighbor, so why don't we fight it? Why don't we fight there? Look, in Syria, it was said, "Let Esad go, no matter what." What happened today? The PYD, which you consider a terrorist organization, controls a large part of Syria's Mujavir region to our borders. Who controls most of the Cerablus-Mare line? ISIS controls it. El Nusra controls the other area. There's Hezbollah down there, lower down, Assad's stuck. Syria is divided into seven.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0015par0107	Yeah, but why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0108	You listen, please.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0015par0109	We hear it, we hear it when we speak it calmly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0110	Listen, please, listen. Were you initially able to predict such a divided Syria? When you made that plan, did you now calculate the post-Isil plan in Musul? Did you calculate Syria after Assad? What happens now in Syria? See, on Friday the United Nations Security Council approved the calendar for the political transition of Syria. If it's run, the transition government will be formed within six months, the constitution will be written. What's happening in Syria in 18 months? We're going to re-election. It was a solution without Assad, and now there's an Assad solution, at least 18 months. It was a non-PYD solution, and the PYD is coming to the table. Your whole policy is upside down. Look, you have to understand that. (CHEERING) We need to get to the truth, the truth. What is the truth? Fact: the region crumbles, shrinks, then shrinks. We couldn't maintain order in the Middle East. We couldn't implement a strategy. We couldn't make a prediction. Start from Libya, through Egypt, out of the eastern Mediterranean, from Syria to Iraq, we fight the whole region, not one country, not one. What's it gonna be? Yeah, there's no limit to selling three pounds of tomatoes down there. What's going to happen? Turkey, on the other hand, is like a migration of tribes, and we're saying that we've taken 5 million people in, we've spent $8 billion. Bravo! Oh, good, $8 billion! Who appreciates you? Who appreciates you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0016par0113	A conscience, a conscience!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0114	No one appreciates it. They're paying 3 billion euros, they're bribing us to accommodate these 5 million people. If they run for office tomorrow, they'll cross the dam!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0017par0117	Mr. Yilmaz, I'll give you five more minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, there are other things going on in foreign policy, not just that. Last time, something came out in the press, what did he say? The negotiations with Cyprus have reached a very advanced stage, he says. And for God's sake, we know about the negotiations with Cyprus, something's going on, but do you know what happened? Cyprus was our baby country, we were the garantizer country? What's going on? See, all the MPs in the KKTC enter the minutes of the meeting, they read and read whatever the two leaders discussed, they read all the headlines; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it; they read it. Because it's important. Even when we say it's a national matter, we don't know anything, we don't know anything.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0018par0120	We don't know what happened at Mosul. Is that a national issue, too? What happened at the exchange?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0121	Look, just like the Annan Plan, it's going to be in the press the day before, and rest assured, it's going to be in the referendum until you read it, just like the Annan Plan.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0018par0122	At least tell me what's going on. What happened at the exchange?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0123	Look, the incident in Cyprus... it's thought that when we solve the Cyprus problem... the very next day, all the chapters will be opened, we'll enter the EU, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0019par0124	Fireworks, too.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0125	Cyprus is just one, then there are 40 more conditions applied to Turkey, and even if you solve the Cyprus issue, there are 40 obstacles. So, what are we negotiating, anyway? As for Cyprus, I specifically request that we read these talks. We're lawmakers in this country, and we're a garantitarian country. We want to know what these talks are, what they're talking about, what they're predicting, what they're trying to give, what they're taking, and we want to know what this al-ver process is, which is our natural right. We want to know what we can guarantee. Guarantee what? As a garanteur, we guarantee a bad deal, what deal do we guarantee? I believe no one here knows. And I know very few people at the State Department know.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0020par0127	We don't know anything anyway. They're just putting us to sleep. Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0013par0128	No one knows about it. Please, we'd like you to inform the House of these matters. Plus, look, I just want to say one last thing. There was a crisis with Russia. Everyone's making a hammock, we'll be fine. We're trying, our economy is strong, our alternatives are strong, he's strong, everything's strong. Trust me, in two or three months, see, the manufacturers will criticize you first. You'll see, maybe Russia will cut off the gas too. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0021par0132	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The third speaker is Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy, the Bingol MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'll give you ten minutes. If you can't finish, I'll give you five more minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0022par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. And good luck with your new assignment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have once again shared some ideas on Turkey's foreign policy as we speak on other occasions on this stand. And today, on behalf of our group, of course, we have a say in the matter of Başika, but I would like to share with you some of my ideas for Turkey's Middle Eastern policy in a slightly more thorough way. Now, of course, when all the nails of the Middle East are out of place like this, no one is actually saying anything about Turkey, let there be no attitude. Why? Because Turkey's conflict zone is long across its borders, and it brings with it, of course, economically, politically, socially, demographically, all the world's problems over Turkey. Turkey, which has a certain influence in the region, of course, is completely out of focus, not realistic in political science, but what should Turkey do in such a mess? There are more than one answer to the question. The AKP insists on its earlier response, which is that it insists on continuing its foreign policy since 2011, but what we've come to is, you know, it's come from friendship with all the neighbors, from strategic depth to precious loneliness. That's right, you know, and I'm not just saying it to criticize, but, of course, Turkey is losing its influence in such a lack of neighborhood situation. Look, there was a lot of excitement back home when the Russian plane went down. We also shot down the Russian plane; it was actually a bullet that Turkey shot itself in the foot. After that, Turkey was pushed out of Russia. The no-fly zone, which Turkey has kept in its language for years, or rather, the AKP government has not dropped out of its tongue, has been completely put on the shelf. All the groups that Turkey supports are now under attack from Russia. Turkey was forced to withdraw from Syrian policy. We believe that this intervention with Başika is a diplomatic and political initiative, not military. I don't think they have 25 tanks, 150 soldiers, and a military operation there. However, Turkey, which has been pushed out of Syrian policy, is trying to gain a certain role in the rescue of Mosul (Musul) in Musul (Musul) this time, perpetuating in the military sense, and therefore has received the incredible reaction of the Shii (Chias) who live in Iraq in particular. In the face of pressure from Russia and Iran and the United States and the Iraqi government, he had to draw his troops to a region in Kurdistan Regional Management. Now, there's a security crisis in Turkey -- it's right -- there's a serious security crisis, and we know that, but trying to intervene in this crisis with military adventures can cause much more trouble for Turkey. You have to be aware of that first. Look, it's not that easy to be a regional force. Of course, Turkey has a desire to expand its influence in the region with this kind of Ottoman influence, which we see, and that's what we've been through a lot of trouble for, but we need to see: look, right now in the region, there's a regional power, Iran is a regional force. How does he do that? He does it actively, fighting in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Yemen. He came in with his military, with his commanding officer, yes, there's been a certain Shiite line all over the place. Right now, a very effective force in Syria and Iraq politics is the quarterback with Russia, and Turkey has been pushed out of this table. Now, as we speak here last time, we have repeatedly said that Turkey's Middle East and Syrian policy was wrong, especially as someone who -- speaking from the region -- is very problematic in its relationship with Kurds. That's where it's fundamentally wrong. Turkey's Syrian policy had two basic arguments. First, the Kurds would not cross this side of Fırat, they would not go west, the red line was, we hit, we break, we break. Second, we'll take Esad down with absolute certainty. There is also bad news for Turkey because, you know, the United Nations Security Council has accepted Russia's proposal. The table seems to be set in January, the invitations are already going, and everyone's trying to get a seat on the table. Assad won at least two more years, that's clear. They're going to start talking officially. Now, what remains is Turkey's relations with Kurds. So it would be futile to say that sending troops to Başika had nothing to do with the policy in Syria, with Rojava policy. We all know that on that side of the border, and on this side of the border, in Turkey's sense of security, the Kurds are still seen as the main threat. This needs to change, guys. This needs to change. Now, we said here last week that Turkey's foreign policy should change. Of course, there were some developments after that, and the first move came from Israel. The relations with Israel, at work, are making attempts to restore friendship. Some reports say that the agreement has been reached, some news is still in the process of reaching an agreement, some articles have been discussed. Dear friends, relations with Israel for six years were one of Turkey's most basic domestic agendas, not foreign policy, but domestic agendas. It's been manipulated so many times, it's been used so many times in the polls, so many heroics have been done that, of course, you can't help but ask: If it's so bad, what's happening in a conjunctural like this that suddenly you're trying to fix relations with Israel? We don't say that it shouldn't be repaired, we say that Turkey should have good relations with all the states in the world; that it should not be used against other peoples or communities. What happened? Turkey is out of Syria now trying to get into Iraq, and it can't get in there, and they got out of there somehow; their relations with Russia are bad. In Turkey's relations with Iraq, he did not have the support of the United States, and they said, "Get out of here, get to know the central government." Reorganisation of relations with Israel in all this may open a partial area for Turkey. Now, when we turned around in such a general framework and looked at Turkey's sending troops to Başika, our minister -- our minister said here too, the government is constantly saying, "We went there, with DAİŞ, ISIS, we went there to support him to fight him, and we went there to help him, dear friends, if he had any intention of fighting ISIS, let him come to Bashika, for example, let him go to Adıyaman, let him go to Istanbul, let him go to Istanbul, let him try to keep the safety of the border. No one really believes that, Minister. If ISIS is fighting, there are many things that can be done to send troops to Iraq, both within Turkey and in diplomatic territory. So we don't think it's a reality. If Turkey thinks it can improve its regional activity in Iraq and Syria with such military adventures, it is useful to reconsider if it thinks it can get a role in the future Iraq and Syria, because it is, it happens only once. They say it happens in traffic. God forbid, all of a sudden, Turkey will find itself in the vortex of conflict, a war that it can't handle. Even if we give our backs to NATO, the NATO will protect us anyway. Even if we think like this, it may not be so at all. So, what we're saying is, our proposal to the AKP government is...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0023par0150	Mr. Ozsoy, I'll give you five more minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0022par0152	First of all, we need to get some serious information on how that Russian plane went down, because from that point on, Turkey's going to get all screwed up. We talked about the Turkmen for about a week. Right? All of Turkey has spoken. Look, we have no memory, no one's talking about Turkmen. Right? No one's talking about the Turkmen right now, so that's off the table. This time we're going to Başika. We're not going there to help the Turkmen. We believe we are there to train groups who say they are fighting against ISIS. No one believes that either. I've been trying to track down some international press, some political activists, their articles, on the outside; I swear, no one believes what Turkey says. It's a situation like this. So how do we get out of this? I mean, how are we, as Turks, going to get out of this vortex, in all this chaos, in the streets of the Middle East, in the middle of a maze? Again, we're highlighting your relationship with the Kurds on that side of the border and on this side of the border. That's what the mind requires, that's what it says. Of course, as we talk about these things, there are still a lot of conflicts going on in Cizre, Surοpi, Dargegit. Look, Turkey's military adventures are not only on that side of the border, but also on this side. It's a comprehensive concept, using military power inside and outside as a diplomatic political tool to gain influence both inside and outside. But, look, it keeps blowing up in our hands. Last week when we talked here, women, children are dying. When we say, "You are constantly behind the moats." You're terrorists. We've been talking all over the world. Yes, and this weekend, the children continued to die. I think one was 11 years old, one was an uncle, 70 years old, one was a seven-month-old baby in the belly of a pregnant woman, all of which, in the conflict environment there, were shot from tanks, so they were targeted and killed by the bullets of these snipers. Turkey and the Kurdish region, where the Kurds in Turkey live, are in no condition to handle this war situation much longer, friends; it's going to explode, the borders have already exploded. This country is on the verge of an explosion, both in general and in regional terms. So this is what we would advise the government: Avoid military adventures in the Middle East. The deepening of this military situation is a loss to Turkey, both in the diplomatic area and in the political sense. The road and the way out are very simple. In the first place, it is not with Israel, but with the Kurds that you have been living with for thousands of years, that we begin the process of friendship and peace, deepening it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0024par0158	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. The final address is for the Justice and Development Party Group and for Malatya MP Taha Özhan. You're ten minutes out, and if you don't finish, I'll give you five extra minutes. Here you go, Mr. Ozhan.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0025par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, as you know, we are here today to discuss recent developments on the grounds of a very troubled country, Iraq, and the Bashika camp in Iraq. That's how I wanted to start my sentences, because the area that we're talking about is a country that's been really, really in chaos for years, and even during dictatorships, has had a hard time living in these long-term moments of totalitarian stability. Iraq is the head of chaotic countries that have remained unstable since its origin in our region. In particular, over the past 35 years, war, occupation, civil war, embargo, the political, humanitarian and economic costs of the past century are truly unique, due to the crisis of governance within the country, both in terms of regional order. With Iraq occupied by the United States on March 20, 2003, the state structure in Iraq collapsed in its entirety, a vast gap of power and security was born. The post-invasion power vacuum has shaken both the internal political balances of Iraq and regional dynamics. The earthquake did not feel much that day, but with the tsunami following, we witnessed that all ethnic, religious fault lines had become serious, and even those who had read it as the first time before the Arab uprisings had taken place. The process of ethnic and sectarian conflict surrounding Iraq began to affect the entire region; Iraq, on one hand, tried to protect its political unity, while still dealing with the heavy socioeconomic costs of the occupation. So, easy to say, three wars and embargos in the last 35 years, and for many years, Iraq seems to be dealing with this restoration and recovery. In the first place, in 1921, Iraq, which they built five years later, including the provinces of Baghdad and Basra, has spent the entire history of modern Iraq in conflict and war, and in the last 30 years, especially the period of Saddam and after, it is estimated that nearly 2 million people have died in Iraq. Iraq is really at the top of countries in the Middle East where artificial borders have been experienced in the most crucial way. The endless costs of Adeta Sykes-Picot's order have haunted Iraq. There is a significant share in this that there are no economic, political, and social elements in the Middle East that are not in Iraq. Iraq, also considered a frozen conflict zone, has actually entered a new era with the American occupation. Along with the invasion of Adeta, both in Iraq and in the Middle East, Pandora's box was opened, while a new authoritarian and bloody era was opened in Iraq, ending the Baas administration with an American occupation. The gains came with serious costs. Iraq, whose political integrity was so bloody broken, faced with a very heavy bill. The people of Iraq had to pay dearly for the chaos created by the power vacuum, as well as the conflict of groups in the hunger for power. In this chaos, the resistance groups and the American occupation forces, particularly between 2004 and 2006, entered into a very deep reckoning, but it also led to the beginning of a much larger period of civil war. Today, the background of the view we face in Iraq is not possible to produce really healthy results in the assessments made by forgetting the background. So we can't really make a healthy assessment of the recent movement of the Bashika camp by ignoring the second chaotic period after the March 7, 2010 Iraqi elections and creating costs beyond the occupation. We're talking about a country that's been living the last 35 years from Saddam dictatorship to American occupation to ethnic, religious chaos, and today, like every element invented by World War I, Iraq is experiencing its crisis. What happened in Musul is that as long as the environment itself is not questioned by different organizations, the American occupation of these organizations and the twisted reputation of Shia actors, we talk about the problems of Iraq's Central Administration, we talk about the problems of the political union in Iraq, but we don't focus on the structural causes of any kind of problem. With the invasion of Iraq and the Maliki administration after 2010, the DAIH has always presented itself as a movement against provocateurs or opponents in the region, in the face of any development that might bring an end to the First World War order. At times, the most important leverage against the Syrian rebellion and the people's demand for change, even against the dissidents, has become the most important excuse for the West, an actor who has become the basis for the legitimacy of Damascus and Baghdad's religious policies in Iraq and Syria to implement the ethnic, religious fault line. Although more than 9,000 air raids have been launched by the coalition in the fight against the DAİSİSK, the DA is still holding 1 third of Iraq under control. In this regard, it is vital that local elements are actively involved in the fight. Under the fact that the government of Iraq has gained activity in the Sunni-dominated provinces in Iraq, as a result of the sectarian practices of the past Iraqi government, Iraq's security forces are not adopted by the locals, or even that these forces are considered to be some sort of invaders. As Mosul fell in June 2014, 72,000 security members in the city left the city with their weapons, without fighting a few hundred DAIST terrorists. Even this sad landscape is actually one of the simplest evidence of how the process works. In this respect, Turkey supports the establishment of national guard troops from local elements in Iraq and the rescue of occupied cities by these forces. This general framework has been providing training support for nearly ten months since March 2015, when it was formed at the Basika-Zelikan camp in consultation with the Governor of Mosul to form the core of the national guard in the future. The training in the camp has been carried out publicly by the Iraqi government and the public since day one. The training of 2,441 personnel has been completed at the camp so far. Within them, a group of about a thousand people remain permanently in their camp, while the remaining ones leave the camp when called upon after basic training. Recently, an additional shipment was made to protect the camp, trained Iraqis and military instructor staff, due to the need for the camp to be close to the conflict zone, to increase measures against threats from the DAİŞ and PKK terrorist organisation. With the shipment being highly exaggerated, purposefully and provocatively exposed to the press, the issue has been placed on the public's agenda, and the news has become a subject for the comments of Iraqi authorities. In response, the issue has been immediately taken by Turkey to resolve at the bilateral level and reduce increased blood pressure. Our Minister has expressed it here, but once again, Mr. Prime Minister sent a letter to Iraqi Prime Minister Ebadi on December 6th saying that we respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Iraq, that sensitivity will be considered. In the same way, Mr. Secretary of State and our Secretary of State had consultations with Iraq on December 8th. The Foreign Ministry and our Undersecretary of the MIT went to Baghdad on December 10th as the special representative of our Prime Minister, meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Ebadi, Foreign Minister Ibrahim Jaferi and Defence Minister Halid Ubeidi. The announcements on these visits were made on December 11th, and the content of all of them shows that a positive consultation is taking place. As a result of these talks, it has been agreed that our respect for Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity has been emphasised and that Iraqi volunteers who will join the fight against DAİSHI are trained by us, that a new work should be launched in order to build new mechanisms in the area of training and security for military personnel, which have been increased due to security risks that have been concentrated in the past part of the base camp. As a result of the talks, a new arrangement for our military presence at the camp in Başika had been made on December 14th, and part of the force had left the camp. In a statement issued by our Foreign Ministry on December 19th, it was said that the process, which began in the wake of the Mosul province, which was the source of the current lack of communication, would be in line with what the anti-Iraq side requires, taking into account the sensitivity of the Iraqi side. Regarding this statement, Iraqi Foreign Minister Ibrahim Jaferi stated that this was a step in the right direction, which would help strengthen the two countries' relations, and that's how it went on record. On the other hand, on December 16th, the attack against Başika was carried out with artillery and air by the elements of the State. Between the intervals, about 60 cannons and mortar shells fell into the camp, and 10 of them hit the camp.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0026par0177	Mr. Özhan, I'll give you an additional five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0025par0179	Four TSK personnel injured in the attack have been evacuated to our country, and there is no life-threatening threat to our wounded. The attack has been properly met by elements of our camp, some of the SECNAV positions detected have been destroyed. This attack has shown us how well our concerns about the safety of the camp are and how necessary the protection element we want to deploy here is. The UN Security Council met on December 18th at the request of Iraqi authorities to address the issue within the framework of a letter sent to the President of the Council by Iraq. They called for a bilateral resolution of the matter. As a result, no international support has been produced, and no documents have been accepted as a result of the meeting. Precious friends, at this exact point, it is necessary to say that Turkey's position will be effective in the fate of Iraq. Başika is just one of the last rings of events that have occurred since her invasion. If you look at the relationship between Iraq and Turkey from a really large perspective since the 2003 occupation, it will be seen that Turkey is positively separated from all the elements that are somehow in common as long as the invasion and Iraq live afterwards. In 2003, Iraq was tried to invade Iraq on March 20th, while long before the invasion, Turkey gathered the Conference on Neighbourhoods in Iraq, allowing all non-stated actors in the region to participate in the process. These elements came together nearly 20 times that day, with the intense continuation of those conferences. In 2005, when the first moment of real recovery took place in Iraq, many elements will remain out of the system and will not enter the election, with the use of political capital from neighbouring countries following the conferences of Iraq, 2005, the 2005 elections have somehow come to life, and for the first time, a legal process has begun after the invasion in Iraq. In the same way in the March 7, 2010 elections, Turkey made serious efforts to bring it to life, and for the first time in Iraq all its elements; the Shiiites, the Sunnis, partly Kurds, the Turks, the Christians -- the only movement that included all of them -- entered the Iraqi elections and successfully emerged from the elections. He won the elections as the first party, but despite the fact that with sectarian vascular and global interference in the region, despite the fact that he had won the election from outside the region to Iraq, the establishment of a government that would really bring Iraq to chaos was forced to be established by a ten-month delay. And then Iraq, in fact, had to live the bloody process of its post-invasion, once again, after the 2010 elections. In fact, Turkey has said that the only recipe for salvation for Iraq is that all the different elements in Iraq are a government with an Iraqi style or another name, and the Maliki administration has led to the death of tens of thousands of people, especially Shiite groups, who have not fought or fought or arrested or tried to arrest, in order to turn Turkey's positive expectations to the highest possible negative. So, what we often refer to as the Iraqi Central Government is the central government policies that, after 2010, the Iraqis are now looking for Saddam in certain regions, where they have come to the point of an incredible sectarian and bloody era. Thus, if there are certain crises, problems and tides in relations between central government and regional governance in Iraq -- in the same way, in the third elements, with the central government and regional governance of countries outside Iraq -- in Iraq -- that is, from the top to the bottom, that is neither social nor political nor economic center -- that has the ability to represent the centre. Thus, the ups and downs of Turkey's relations with countries in its region in terms of foreign policy are not just the circumstances of Turkey itself; as any rational approach will admit, these elements are also due to the tides within themselves. Despite all this, Turkey continues to continue its positive approach since the beginning of the invasion of Iraq, and its real intention is in a country that clearly offers its actions to the regional and global public that they are trying to implement to ensure stability in Iraq. As long as Turkey maintains its positive separation, it will be the middle and long-term winner. Thank you very much, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0027par0187	Thank you, Mr. Ozhan. Congressmans, the Minister's speech on non-responsibility requests has been completed. Thank you. Now, the group's vice presidents have a demand for words. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0028par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, when I started the session, I was actually going to express my feelings and thoughts. Today is the first time you've run our House as acting Speaker. We wish you eternal success in this mission as the Republican People's Party Group. I'm sure, and I know that since I've known you and I know that all the rules of the Civil Code are more liberal in the name of everyone -- not only the CHP, HDP, MHP, but the AKP -- I hope that you'll also evaluate them, and I believe in my heart that you will have a fair government, and I congratulate you again. And by the way, thank you, Mr. Secretary, for informing our House. We need these. It's a method we all desire to have spoken and spoken by the ruling party on very important matters, without demanding opposition. I wish this would continue from now on, thank you to the Minister. Mr. President, I'm going to express my feelings in one sentence in three matters. The visions of the murder of Dilek Doğan have hurt all of us deeply. When the Homeland Security package is discussed, whatever we said on this stand, we are deeply sorry that they will show up one at a time. One of the reasons why the police are being overcharged is because they're being supported by the police. Thus, the killing of Dilek Doğan is not an ordinary event, but it is the responsibility of power in the process that leads to death. That's what the Homeland Security package was dangerous for, and the sadness we felt watching a citizen die today is deep, I'm afraid, in the fight against terrorism in the east and southeast. I draw the government's attention again, and I share our great regret. Mr. President, this week is the 37th anniversary of the Maras massacre. I curse all those who have done the Maras massacre, one of the pages of shame in our history. They have taken their place in history with a curse, and those who have marred Turkey's peace, the peace of its internal dynamics and Turkey's democracy will, of course, always answer in this world and in the next. I salute all our friends of Alevi, who were slain in Kahramanmarash, and all our souls, and I curse those who have done the slaughter. And finally... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I add a sentence? My last sentence...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0029par0202	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0028par0203	Thank you. Mr. President, on this day when we celebrate the birth of Mevlit Kandili, Hazreti Mohammad, I wish once again that his life as an example to all of us and to all the people around the world, as an example to all the politicians and politicians in Turkey during the week of December 17th and 25th, when we celebrate the birth of Mevlit Kandili. We don't think this teaching of Muhammad the Holy One is being implemented in Turkey these days, and I invite everyone again to take a stance on the simple life and attitude towards the waste of this Mevlit Kandili of the entire Islamic world, and I congratulate the Mevlit Kandili of the Islamic world.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0029par0205	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0030par0208	Thank you. Really, there are significant developments in Turkish foreign policy. As the National Movement Party, we had motions to bring this matter on the agenda of Parliament, and even to open a general meeting in foreign policy in parliament, and then an attempt to do so today by a Minister of Justice and Development Party Group to inform the Parliament. Mr. Secretary, in its nature, it was not really a request to our Parliament, but the need to direct it directly to the truth, in the face of these developments, to inform Parliament and our nation. But with Mr. Secretary of State here... Mr. Secretary, there are significant developments in foreign policy in particular: relations with the European Union, developments in Cyprus, Turkey-Russian relations. You'll appreciate that today we're discussing a part of foreign policy. In this regard, also informing Parliament of these developments in foreign policy... if the groups agree, at least let's have another preliminary discussion on this matter at the General Assembly. All of us together, if we are to share a common view of Turkey's national interests, then at least this ground should be created. You can appreciate that without a national foreign policy, there is no chance of success without a foreign policy that doesn't support national forces. In this regard, especially in this regard, I would like to express to you that Parliament should also be briefed on the developments in foreign policy. And I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary, the Justice and Development Party Group for bringing this initiative to this point today. Yes, it's blessed Mevlit Kandili today. I congratulate Mevlit Kandili, Mevlit Kandili, Mevlit Kandili, of all our MPs, and Mevlit Kandili, of all our nations. I hope this Kandil light will bring peace and peace to all mankind, in the name of the birth of the Prophet, the Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to all the worlds. I hope the peace of Islam will prevail over all mankind. On this occasion, I'd like to make another point. I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed by the PKK's terrorist organization, our soldiers who lost their lives in an attack again at Bitlis Hizan. However, Mr. Secretary, I believe there's a procedure that's been started since last February, all of which are being autopsied. So two days ago, even though half of our martyr's body went off with a missile, an autopsy was performed, even though there was nothing in his brain.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0031par0215	One more minute, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0030par0216	So let's not torture our martyrs, it's really important. Because since they were the result of that attack, I understand it's an autopsy issue to resolve previous discussions, but I really think that at least our martyrs should not be performed unless there are any suspicious deaths. On this occasion, unfortunately, for the first time in a thousand three hundred and seventy-six years last Friday, a Friday prayer was not held at the Diyarbakir Grand Mosque. Today, unfortunately, at 18 mosques, at the Holy Mosque, these blessed days will not be considered. Therefore, I would like to say that we support and support the determination of the terrorist organization that is disturbing our peace and terrorizing it as a nationalist Movement Party to continue its attempts to bring about peace in that region. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0031par0218	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0032par0220	Mr. President, thank you. We all have different political views, but our Mevlit Kandili is in common. Let the light of this Kandil, which exceeds the bounds, shine on all. Blessed be the Mavlit Kandili of our nation, of all mankind. Mr. President, today is your first president. For the first time, a deputy chairman of the People's Democratic Party is doing so in parliament. I think it's very important. I also think that there's a point to how democratic processes work in Turkey, and where the real address is when it comes to solving problems, and I think it's important that you have your presence there, your administration, and the attitude that you're going to have when you're running the next one. Of course, you gave a speech at the beginning, and I got the text of the speech. I don't want to put up an argument here. But many people have given the impression that there are some expressions in them that you have not forgotten about the leadership of the People's Democratic Party, which you have served for many years, and I won't go into them. In addition to those statements, you have called for peace and common life, and I consider them precious. I'd like to hope that in your next mission there, you'll be able to conduct this administration in a general and custodial manner, which represents all of Turkey, mediating these operations within the framework of the law, which political parties have already referred to here, beyond their statements, and in fact, I believe you personally have this acquish. I'd like to point that out. Mr. President, CHP Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Gök Dilek Doğan has mentioned the incident. I pray for God's mercy again to Dilek Doğan. Unfortunately, it's a sad occasion. Right now, in law, we'd like to see a result of the common conscience here. This is also a way to put an end to political debate, a way to ease the pain, and that is one of the basic duties of the law. Yes, the 37th anniversary of the Maraş massacre. There have been other massacres in this country in those twilight days. The one who died there, the one who died in the dark days of the past.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0033par0227	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0032par0228	...to all citizens of Alevi, to our Sunni citizens, to those who are victims of provocation, violence, terror, no matter what their political views. History is not only a past event, but also a chain of events that need to be learned for the future. I think the provocation we're going to take out of the past massacres is to see the capacity of terrorism, to turn people against each other, to see how much disaster this geography is capable of, and to be on a line in this framework supporting democratic processes. I wanted to make this clear. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0033par0230	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0034par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to express our satisfaction as the People of Turkey's struggle for democracy, for the freedom of the Kurdish people, and for women's struggle against the male-dominant system, for women's freedom, for all the people who have paid a great price, and have become a symbol of hope by the practice of fighting. You were also his mother on a Saturday. And right now, you're trying to do all the activities that their mothers did on Saturday. I, for one, would like to reminisce about the biggest request in this country... of their children's murdered children's funerals, their bones, and their mothers' burial rights... from here, in person, once again. I would like to reiterate that this country is not the land of mothers and young people who seek graves, but of young people who seek graves, but of young people who do not shed tears in peace. In your practice here, I would also like to stress our belief that you will take a stand that will take its reference from the Civil Code and from the Constitution. Of course, today is a very important day. Today, when we celebrate the birth of mankind, truth, truth, and the birth of Muhammad the prophet of morality, we want to celebrate the Mevlit Kandili of all our peoples. Once again, I want to emphasize that the most important legacy to humanity is right, right, morality, and peace, and how much we need this legacy in terms of the process of our country right now. Mr. President, right now, the process that took place in the People of the State, in the People of the State, in the People of the State, in the People of the State, in the Republic of Turkey, in the Republic of Turkey, in the Republic of Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in The concept that was imposed there as a curfew has now reached the full extent of Fascism until curfew and curfew. Most of the people in Silopi are now unable to stay in their own homes; they are either being taken away collectively, or they are forced to live in the basements of buildings, in shelters, without food, water, and cannons.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0035par0240	Mr. Baluken, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0034par0241	A country has no right to do that to citizens who live on its own land. In a district, in a city centre, if people's right to go to the window is blocked, the right to stay at home is extremely severe. I would like to speak again to both the government and the entire Parliament about the matter as the Democratic Party of Peoples. Funerals that have been waiting to be buried in Silopi for days are kept in the middle of the street, so they rot because their burials are not allowed. The ministers are here. In what religion, in what human value, in what international contract, in what moral norm are funerals not allowed, funerals left to rot in the middle of the street? I'd like to say that we're waiting for an answer. We, for the sake of humanity, urge the government to give up these wrongs as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0036par0245	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Secretary, I give you my word on your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0037par0249	My dear President, first of all, I wish you the best of your duties as Deputy Speaker of Parliament. I find it appropriate that Mr. Oktay Vural, deputy chairman of the MPHP Group, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, is calling for the information of our Grand Assembly. We also shared that thought yesterday with our AK PARTY Deputy President, Mr. İlknur Eylüss. In fact, there have been significant developments in foreign policy recently, relations with Russia, the latest situation in Iraq, Syria, developments in the United Nations. Fortunately, all these developments are not negative. For example, in Libya, an agreement was signed that brought the two sides together, the political process began, and we support it. Negotiations in Cyprus have been moving forward, even in difficult matters, distances have been extended. On many matters that concern us, I'd like to come at a time when your presidency, your great Parliament, approves and inform our esteemed deputies, and we'd like to take advantage of our MPs' opinions, criticism, and that gives us strength. Thank you very much. On this occasion, I congratulate the blessed Mevlit Kandili, our esteemed deputies and all our citizens, and wish them good fortunes. My respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0038par0252	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Dear MPs, I would like to express my thoughts once again, especially because of Mevlit Kandili. I congratulate Mevlit Kandili, the 1st anniversary of the blessed birth of the Prophet. I especially wish that he bring peace, happiness, and peace to our country and all the realms of mankind. I wish that this blessed night, especially our country, would cause the blood spilled all over the world to stop the tears that have been shed. I also ask God's mercy once again and ask that the perpetrators be judged as soon as possible. I also want to thank you, as Chairman of the Court, that conditions in the region should return to normal as soon as possible. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Now, the first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Hüda Kaya, the Istanbul MP who wants to talk about regional war policies. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0039par0266	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you in peace. Last night was the longest night of the year. After today, our days will grow longer and our nights will be shorter. God willing, like our days and nights, our new year will triumph over the darkness of the light. On this occasion, I wish both the solstice and the new year would bring peace and free lives for all the oppressed and all the human beings. As there are hundreds of examples in human history, we are going through a dark period of evil and persecution. On February 28th, when the tanks walked in Sincan, the people were attacked. We called it the coup d'état of national will and faith. At the moment, dozens of tanks are in urban centers, not balansing between neighborhoods; they are dropping bombs on houses, schools, mosques. So, doesn't this view show us this? As the President said, the state has already lost its legitimacy, entering city centers, streets with tanks and cannons. In places where the political government can't even get 5 per cent of votes, it tries to impose a tank, a ball, and drags elected mayors, deputies, gasses and TOMAESTs, raids their homes and sends the elected to prisons with 90-95 per cent of the vote. What could be the greater sign of a coup and occupation? Dear lawmakers, it's been weeks since the news of the execution of women murdered in their homes. Only two of the many examples of Wishing Born and Gift Joy. For months, those of you who lie about Kabataş and believe in the images that are not there for months, these are the facts and visions: Isn't it sufficient evidence for you to see the lifeless body of the two children's mother, the child who was murdered by the powers of the state when you went to get Abdest? The murder of Dilek Doğan, who had been shot in front of his family, has been killed by a live bomb. They have repeatedly asked for handcuffs for his brother and his father, who rebelled with pain, who should have called an ambulance when the wish fell on the ground. Here's one of thousands of epics written by the cops you sent against the public. Members of parliament, 24/7 social media and the mainstream media, who do nothing but lie, slander and insult, and those who publish news about the terrorist organization, continue to receive full government support as they point to the tyranny and waste of government and power, while the Diyanet officials, who share a single share, continue to be expelled from their religious teachers' jobs without question. Likewise, students are sent to prisons in 24 hours for a single (tweet). Now, I ask you, is this the rule of law or the law of the superior? Congressmans, while Turkey-Israeli agreements were on the agenda, two days ago, Israel launched an air strike against Hezbollah commanders fighting ISIS and Nusra Al Qaeda in Syria. This attack is one of the most concrete signs of the alliance between Turkey and Israel. In fact, at the time when Palestinian resistance organizations and Palestinian prisoners declared mourning for commanders who died in the Israeli attack, AKP official explained that the state of Israel was a friend of Turkey. The Middle East now finds salvation under Israel's protection, which continues to pay the heavy price for falling strategic policies to the people of the region. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid in the politics of denial and destruction, we are living in the days when the Republic of Turkey left even Israel's tyranny behind. There will be no return to the 90s. The government, not the 90s... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the 80s continue to act as a result of a massacre and slaughter over the 1930s.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0040par0275	Mr. Kaya, outside of the agenda is five minutes. I'll give you one more minute to wrap it up, just for today. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0039par0277	Just as we look at Mr. President and Prime Minister's speeches and central media headlines, we see that Turkey is not a new Turkey, but a very old Turkey, and that it is, in fact, a repeat of the same mentality from those days to these days. We broke the back of the terrorist. I don't know how many thousands of terrorists have been neutralized. This city has been cleared, this mountain has been swept. Like 90 years of government, monotheist, Kemalist and racist memorizations continue to be repeated in the name of religion. Congressmans, whether you accept it or not, historically, the eastern part of Fırat is Kurdya and is the home of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0041par0280	It is the land of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0039par0281	The President and the Prime Minister insist on repeating in their speech, which, in itself, reveals the root source of the problem.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0042par0283	The lies are over!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0039par0284	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0043par0286	Thank you, Mr. Rock. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mazlum Nurlu, a member of the Manisa MP who asked for the return of the aged fruits and vegetables exported to Russia and the problems of our exporters. Here you are, Mr. Nurlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0044par0292	Mr. President, I have made a promise that the fruits and vegetables exported to Russia will be returned from the customs doors, the problems of our exporters and the problems of our producers, depending on this. I wish the President the success of his new mission, and salute the High Council. As you know, on November 24, 2015, a Russian fighter was shot down for violating our borders. Unfortunately, political and economic tensions between Turkey and Russia are still under way. First of all, I would like to say that you are justified in the legitimacy and intervention of foreign aircraft that violate the borders of the state of Turkey under the rules of engagement. However, I would like to share with you our concern that the crisis should not be allowed to deepen the political and economic woes, the echoes, any further deepening of the crisis, especially the region's peace, agricultural exports, and that the country will continue to affect tourism on a larger, macro level if the crisis does not exist. There have been heavy complaints from exporters over the lack of exported grapes and fruit trucks in Russia. With last year's figures, 157.6 billion dollars of our total exports were made for Russia. Russia is among the top 10 countries where we export the most. Russia, the country where we export most agricultural products, such as grapes, fruit and tomatoes, is first in exports of $1 billion in fruit and vegetables. Four million Russian tourists contribute to tourism each year, primarily Antalya. About 40,000 Russians live in Antalya. Dear lawmakers, it appears that on the winter day, natural gas will be cut off. Our Manisa province is the 1st of our 81 counties in the positive value of agricultural production by around $4 billion. In Manisa and its districts, 90,000 families earn their living in a field of 680,000 per cent. The grape city of Manisa contributes $280m to our export revenues, with an average export of 250,000 tonnes of grapes per year. Our seedless raisin export income is about 450-500 million dollars. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if what we're experiencing is not resolved in this period of the plane crisis, the problems we're going to experience in the future will hurt our country's agriculture, tourism sector, and most of all regional peace. The sun also squeezes and tightens its foot, which is often spoken in Anatolia. The poor farmer, who, unfortunately, is despised, scolded by political power, and deserved the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, will again be humbled, as always, if the exporter can't sell by the proverb. Dear lawmakers, even though they are aware of the negatives of many sectors, especially in terms of regional peace, while the country is on fire, I'd like to say once again that while the country has turned its plane crisis into opportunity, while the country is in heat with its dreams of presidency and sultanhood, the Russian plane has also fallen into regional peace with its agricultural size, the vineyards, agriculture, tourism, the tourism, the tourism of our country, and the political and military size. As a final statement, I respectfully salute the High Assembly, with peaceful solutions to agriculture, tourism, not all sectors that eat bread from exports and the restoration of our political and economic relations with all of our neighbours in this geography of world peace, with the testimony of our greatest leader Ataturk.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0045par0301	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Isparta MP Mr. Sait Yüşül. Here you go, Your Highness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0046par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. First, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs and innocent people who have lost their lives, and he will reward them with the highest places in the heaven of my Lord. On this night, which connects Tuesday to Wednesday, we will understand the presence of our Prophet Muhammad Mustafa (SAV) who our great Lord has sent as a mercy to all the worlds. I hereby salute and greet His Highness, his leader, his son, his family. I call upon the light and the light of his light to shine upon our hearts, that this light may become the spiritual peace that all mankind needs, that mercy, mercy, brotherhood, peace, and peace for all of our land, our nation, all of us. As brothers who believed in the same God, the same Book, the same prophet, and returned to the same qiblah, we have come to this day, sharing the integrity of brotherhood in this land, in which we have lived as brothers for centuries. The greatest truth of the universe and the great truth of Risatetimumuhhammedia, as described in the miracle, is that the two jihads have the brightest sun and have many proofs of their integrity to this great office, and that all centuries listen to it. Yes, he hears the opposite for every century. Yes, the light of Zatahmediye (ASV) changed the shape of the world. The light and light of the human being and the entire universe. If it weren't for that light, there would have been a cruel, meaningless, meaningless, absurd, complicated, random toy of cruelty. According to this great world of books, its light is Muhammadi (ASV) the ink of the writer's pen. If a tree is imagined of the earth, its light becomes its core and its fruit. If the world is considered a miracle, then the light becomes its soul. If a great man is conceived, then he is wise. If the garden of paradise is imagined with a beautiful beauty, its light will become Muhammad's andeli, or nightingale. The most important of creatures, the sun and the stars and all their rulers, and all the prophets who call upon them, and every member of their community every day, saying to them, "How many times do I pray to God?" Give him what he wants, and we want what he wants. Look at the spirituality of our Lord (ASV) the person: Sathit is a mosque, a mosque on earth, a masjid in Mecca, a altar in Medina; our prophet (ASV), whose burhan is Bahir (bahir), an imam to all the people, a preacher to all the people, a leader to all the prophets, a ruler to all the saints, an ink from all the empires, and an ink from all the saints, a tribute to the people; all the people whose roots are alive, a miracle to all the prophets, who have signed their case, and all the prophets to all the prophets, and to all the prophets, and to all the prophets who have all of them. For he says, "God forbid!" and he sues. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right. Who is it that can mix fingers with unaccounted signatures for an effort that can be confirmed? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0047par0322	Your Highness, I'll give you an additional moment to collect. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0046par0324	There it is! The whole of the earth prays and prays in its glorious prayer. Behold! he prays for the pilgrimage, not the people of the earth, or the people of the world, or the people of the world, or the people of the world, or the people of the world, in all the languages: "Yes, Lord, grant your prayers." So do we. They call it. Blessed be the night, and blessed be the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the night, and the night, and the night, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the day, and the night, and the night, and the day, and the night, and the night, and May my Lord make our morality moral, with the morality of our Lord, the prophet. Amen. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0048par0331	Thank you, Your Highness. Dear MPs, according to the 60th article of the Civil Code, I will make a solemn promise to the MPs who demand your place. I'm reading the names of the MPs who entered the system: Mr. Thrower, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Aksu, Mr. Akın, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Bicker, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Kaysoğlu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Emir, Mr. Göker, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Seksek, Mr. Pekshen, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Parsak, Mr. Ilgezdi. But I want to give priority to Mr. Ilgezdi. He has a special request. I think he's got a plane to catch. Therefore, after we give the first word to Ilgezdi, we will proceed in order. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0049par0338	Mr. President, first of all, congratulations on your mission. Dear Regents, you know the video footage of Dilek Doğan's recent moments of being shot and killed by a special police officer in his home in Sarıyer, has fallen to social media yesterday and has already been published from several media organs. In this account, it is evident that the officers who carried out the operation did not face resistance as alleged, and that there had been no riots inside the house until Dilek Doğan was shot. These images are the clearest indication of how fatal, bad consequences could be for the implementation of communication, technical surveillance, housing, and job search, based on the criteria of reasonable doubt, based on the search for concrete evidence. Human life shouldn't be that cheap. I think the constitutional order is unsustainable in violation of the Constitution. In order for the case of Dilek Doğan to not happen again, I feel that reasonable doubt should be abandoned immediately, and that strong doubt based on concrete evidence should be set up. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0050par0342	Thank you, Mr. Illgezdi. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0051par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll tell you a story of shame. Last Thursday, I wrote to the Ministry of Energy and asked permission to enter the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant area, which was planned to be built in Mersin, my hometown, and to conduct inspections on behalf of the people of Mersin. The shame of asking permission aside, despite all my efforts, I didn't get it. To the Minister of Energy, what are you afraid of? Why don't you want me to enter Akkuyu? What's going on in there? What are you hiding in there? After all, I wanted to get there yesterday, and I wasn't brought in on AKP's orders. The government, which is incapable of protecting our borders against ISIS terrorists, is not too good at putting lawmakers in Akkuyu. Guys, we're not kidding. We're not going to have you build this disgusting plant, no matter what the cost.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0052par0349	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0053par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. Five and a half months ago, Turkey's largest environmental trial was launched by 751 people in connection with the attempt to mine Artvin Cerattepe. In this case, which has been launched at the Rize Administration Court, for five and a half months, there has been no decision to stop the execution, no decision to refuse, no decision to accept. The previous committee at the Rize Administration Court has been unfortunately replaced. The previous delegation ruled in favor of environmental cases in favor of environmentalists. I know very well that this delegation has been replaced with special instructions. The Artvins have been on guard for five and a half months at 1,800 meters so that the Forest Service doesn't cut down trees. In my years as a lawyer, the Forest Authority protected the forest from the citizen; now times have changed, citizens are trying to protect the forest from the Forest Authority. For five and a half months, people have been on watch for 24 hours. I call on the Minister of Energy, the Prime Minister for duty. When will this suffering end, and when will this disgrace end? The Artvins will not allow this murder. This fight will go as far as it can go. I say that once again to the great Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0054par0358	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0055par0361	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to Mevlit Kandili. On the evening of December 19 in Küçükçekmece district of İstanbul, the separatist terrorist group militants killed 22-year-old Hero Charcoalist. In the same neighborhood, high school student Serap Eser was brutally murdered in a fire that was fired as a result of Molotoving the bus earlier. Because of daily events, residents are terrified. The tradespeople are threatened to close their businesses, to pledge allegiance to the organisation or to leave the neighborhood. Security and peace cannot be established in the heart of Istanbul. I'm warning the government, the security weakness in this area must be removed immediately, the separatist elements must be completely cleaned. Otherwise, the separatist terrorist group will continue to intercept and vomit death. Citizens looking for a solution from the security forces will be confronted by separatist militants, and irreparable events will be possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0056par0366	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0057par0368	Thank you. The Balıkesir Art Center, run by our head of Balıkesir Square, is being raided twice in the last month by a team of representatives of Finance, the SGK, the municipality and the National Education Directorate. A centre where our children are given art education, without any work or transactions, is only being raided to intimidate and deter them because their manager is CHP district president. Artists, artists, students and parents are being harassed. We know the AKP's stance and stance on art and artists, and you don't like artistic activities. But you should know that the art lovers of this country will never surrender to your dominant and intimidating attempts. If you think you can intimidate the mayors of the main opposition party CHP, you are mistaken. Now I ask you, what did you find there? Tax evasion? Imaginary exports? Was there a bribe and corruption negotiation? You found dollars in shoe boxes? They had a counting machine? Was there a tender negotiation? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0058par0374	Thank you. Mr. Petek...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0059par0377	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to congratulate you on the blessings of Mevlit Kandili, which we're going to understand today. As it is known, the last of the series of prophets from thousands of years of history has been Muhammad Mustafa (SAV), our beloved Prophet, who preached and preached peace religion Islam. He was the best of men. He was the one whom everyone trusted, so he was called Muhammad-ul Emin. He was a man of truth whom God had chosen from among men. He was an exemplary figure who embraced all mankind with his fine morality, with his great tolerance, with his justice, with his mercy, with his humbleness. Humanity, which guides his example, has found a way to live in peace, peace, and faithfulness, as long as it adheres to the principles of our prophet's life. Hence, the time of the Prophet, the Prophet, is understood when it is called the Asr of Saadet. In this frame, Mubarak Mevlit Kandili...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0060par0381	Thank you... Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0061par0384	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been under heavy pressure for months by the employer for the use of constitutional organisation rights as part of the Anatolian Holdings of the Conium Sugar and PANKOBIRL Association, which is based on Konya Jahanbeyli, and have been placed at the door with 87 workers who have been laid off yesterday. I'll talk to you tomorrow at 12. I'll bring it up with a press conference at 00, but the reason I'm bringing it up today is that we've just heard a very simple sermon, and everyone is celebrating Mevlit Kandili. I believe that the greatest but most important commandment the Holy Prophet has given mankind is to be honest and to respect the rights of others. In that sense, Panplast invites his employer to respect the rights of his employees, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0060par0386	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0062par0389	Mr. President, I'd like to ask our National Secretary of Defense: Turkey's military presence in northern Iraq is based on the mid-1990s. So the first question that came to mind is, why is the Turkish soldier in northern Iraq now the problem? If you look at it this way, can you say that some influential third parties in Iraq have raised the issue? On the other hand, the Baghdad administration made it a national and international issue of honor because it felt that it had become a country that could not maintain its sovereignty. Couldn't a diplomacy have been carried out by the Baghdad administration before sending troops to prevent it? Another issue was the United States sided with Iraq. Again, could it not have been discussed with the Washington administration and sought cooperation in the fight against ISIS? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0063par0393	Thank you. Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0064par0396	Mr. President, the status of the miners who were unemployed after the massacre continues, while all workers in the Soma basin continue to be forced into the yellow union, even without the union. The miners who received the first installment of their legal and immoral compensation divided into 24 installments were also condemned to hunger before the festival. Again, the outcome of the investigation into public officials, especially members of the General Directorate of Mines, is still unclear, despite the obvious decision of the State of Soma. They still don't have a case against them. Energy Minister Taner Yildiz of the period is clear and there is still no improvement in this issue. It is evident that at the stage of the trial in Soma, the disaster has come to pass, and the responsible have taken no precautions. As a human and a Manisa MP, I expect the power to fulfill its commitments to the people of Soma and its workers immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0065par0399	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0066par0402	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, celebrate Mevlit Kandili, wish for peace and brotherhood. In the period when subcontractors expect to be recruited, temporary workers who have worked in sugar factories for years on the same terms continue to have intense expectations of staff. For example, there have been temporary workers for 15 or 20 years at the Bor Sugar Factory of Niğde. These temps are waiting to be recruited. An experienced worker in a sugar factory is important. The number of workers growing in production, business, maintenance, repair, energy activities is increasing. It's temporary, but it's experienced. For years, employees should be given a staff immediately. Otherwise, production problems, business accidents will be common. The continuation of production is expected to include temporary workers working in sugar factories and work on this road for a productive business environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0067par0406	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0068par0409	Thank you. On 23 December 1930, the school where Kublai had graduated from Menemen was named after Muallim Mektebi Çelebi Mehmet High School. Kublai, whose garden has a monument, is celebrated every year on December 23rd, with no memorials on tomorrow's anniversary. Who has been disturbed to remember the martyr Kublai, who stood alone against this reactionary uprising, declaring that those who did not enter under the flag of Sharia would be struck by the sword? We hope that this wrong will be rectified and that it will prevent this kind of legitimization of reactionary riots. Without this memorial at school tomorrow, the sensitive young people who have been entrusted with the republic will not make this memorial forget the fallen teacher Kublai. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0069par0412	Thank you. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0070par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish Mr. Pervin Buldan, representative of those who disappeared in custody, victims of unsolved murders and their mothers on Saturday, to the success of his new mission. December 17-25 is the peak of corruption, theft in Turkey. For this reason, foreign currency and banners have been posted in various districts and district buildings of the Republican People's Party -- related to the week of corruption on December 17th-25th. None of these hanging banners or exchanges have the name or symbol of any political party's or manager, but in İzmir Bergama, where Bergama County had hung it on the party building, we have attempted to reduce the banner by going down to the county building without a court order and a prosecutor's decision yesterday. Thus, Turkey is now under extraordinary martial law and extraordinary conditions. We strongly protest the involvement of police and law enforcement forces in political parties' various activities and struggles. We demand the implementation of law and democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0071par0419	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0072par0422	Dear President, congratulations first. It gives me the honor of being a woman in our Parliament now that you've waged a civil rights struggle since you've been following unsolved murders. The point I want to point out is that on Sunday, there was a serious fire incident in Ankara where 253 shops were burned down, and the Ottoman Market burned down. This burn was reportedly caused by the fire from the electrical ignition, but according to the research conducted by the Electric Engineers' Room, the cause of the fire was determined to be insurmountable. The Chamber of Electrical Engineers, on 31 May 2005, asked the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources that there was not enough regulation in the Department of Electrical Internal Facility, so they did not take into account a sufficient arrangement. From now on, it's obvious what we have to do to prevent new fires from happening. I'm inviting the Ministry on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0073par0425	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0074par0428	Mr. President, a few days before the press, we learned that Mr. President had built a new dwelling on one side of the runaway palace and moved there quietly. We call it a palace, of course, but it's not very likely to call it a palace. Not in this area with 250 rooms. From what we've heard from the press, it's got fitness centers, massage rooms, special decorations, shock showers, 80 square feet of hot tubs, sauna, steam rooms, and a terrace the size of 1,800 square feet, tennis court, basketball, volleyball, carpet court. Of course, in our country, I find it useful to bring that up in these lightdays, especially when we're struggling with heavy income and credit card debts, when we're more concerned about the waste. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0073par0430	Thank you. Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0075par0433	Mr. President, I begin by saying to our soldiers who died in Bitlis and Diyarbakir that they are God's mercy and urgent healing for the wounded. And I wish you the best of luck in your new assignment. The Turkish Biotech Strategy and Action Plan, prepared by the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, was published in the Official Gazette last June. The plan envisions the establishment of a bioethics board within the Ministry of Health. The health minister began preparations to form the bioethics board and was prepared for it, and one of the members was originally scheduled to become a theologian who had a Ph.D. in Islamic law. The medical world, which has often been exposed to questions such as drug abuse, blood transfusions, or transplants, has been discussing these issues that have not been in the field for a long time. On top of that, I have the fear that the issues involving the healthcare area will be taken into consideration of Islamic law and the laws ordered by Islam, which can lead our people to sickness, injury, and even death. I'd like to request a review of the arrangement.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0073par0435	Thank you. Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0076par0438	The former Justice and Development Party MP and the President of Youth Arms, in the position of leader of a team who has insulted and threatened a famous Turkish journalist and the daily Hurriyet, has been rewarded with praise by Mr. Prime Minister, as we have heard. We've also learned that this gentleman has also been appointed Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports. In CNN International, freedom of press is my red line. What moral and ethical understanding will the Prime Minister be able to explain this attitude? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0077par0441	Thank you. Dear Man...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0078par0444	Mr. President, thank you. Our basic rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and universal law are under serious threat. In the cold war years, the bans on books during the coup period have recently begun to relive the embarrassment of the AKP's power. Heavy and unfair arrest warrants against journalists are not enough; decisions are being made to collect books, magazines. As a lawyer, I'd like to express my great regret about all these decisions. President Erdogan, as Prime Minister of the period, said in his speech to the Nation in 2002: "We are nullifying all previous book collection decisions. During a six-month transition, 23,000 banned books will be liberated. Turkey will also be free of judicial shame, our democratic standard will rise, Turkey's reputation will rise in the world. The AKP is afraid of freedom, and the more afraid it is, the more authoritarian it becomes. You can detain journalists in Silivri Prison, collect books and destroy them. But you can't lock up ideas, thoughts, and reality, you can't destroy it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0079par0449	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0080par0452	First of all, I'm celebrating the Mevlit Kandili, of the entire Turkish nation and of the world's humanity. I wish our Prophet's life would set an example for all mankind. I'm also asking our Minister of Defense: last week, he was visited by the postmaster Barzani in Turkey. He was honored and accepted at the highest level. As soon as he arrived in northern Iraq, he spoke of referendums and independent Kurdistan. Has he had a conversation with the Republic of Turkey about this? And does your ministry have any work on the rescue and safe delivery of nearly 20 of our soldiers and police in the hands of the PKK? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0081par0456	Thank you. Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0082par0459	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 2, 2015, Ship's Tanks were removed from the California Convention. Mr. President, the Ship's Tanks Calibration Act is a regulation that shows how much fuel the tanks have, and allows these ships to be fueled by international standards, if they have a license for calibration regulations. Now that the regulation has been lifted, other ships outside the regulation can also be fueled to Turkey and can be shipped out of Turkey by these ships. The name of these ships in the international area is the ship. Now what's interesting is, is there an oil product in Turkey that shouldn't be known for its origins, that these pirate ships are needed? Have some of our ports on the Mediterranean coast been uploaded to ships that are not compatible with the Calibration Charter, or do some of the fuels coming from abroad to Turkey need to be customised in accordance with the declaration? Why shouldn't the Customs Administration base a statement on the technicality of the ship? Is there fuel in Turkey, or is there any other product that is suspected of its origin? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0083par0467	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0084par0470	Mr. President, the current power, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great, has shown us, has completely destroyed the principle of peace in the world. For the first time since the founding of our Republic, these principles have completely disappeared during this period of power. The power that destroyed peace and peace in our country has completely destroyed our relations with our neighbors and completely destroyed the peace. With these misguided domestic and foreign policies followed, our country has been brought to a point where it's been isolated, like a Middle Eastern country, where confusion has been created. I call on political power: Now keep that principle, peace in the dorm, peace with our neighbours, and peace with Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0085par0473	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0086par0476	Mr. President, Malatya's health is suffering and no one is hearing. There are 1 hospital in Malatya, 769 thousand inhabitants. 2 state hospitals have been transferred to the TOKI. One hospital was shut down and turned into a local clinic. People of Malatya, Fırat, Yıldıztepe, Çöşnük, Zafer, Göztepe, Tandoğan neighborhoods and Kale, Doğanyol, Puturge, Battalgazi districts of Malatya are trying to reach the hospital from one end of the city to the other, if they can find road money and not get a job on the road. He said he ordered the former state hospital to be organized as a hospital instead of a neighborhood policy project at a dinner with NGOs in Malatya in October 2014. Fourteen months passed, either the Prime Minister fooled the Malatians or someone broke the Prime Minister's promise. I call on the Prime Minister to keep that promise. Unfortunately, the Malatians' health is in Allah's hands, and the oldest hospital of Malatya, the hospital that all people want, has been handed over to the TOKI, which is being built as a housing area. Besides, life is dead on that street in that neighborhood. Earlier, Malatya's most active Hospital Street is now dead. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0085par0478	Thank you. Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0087par0481	Mr. President, thank you. And congratulations on your new assignment, and I wish you all the best. Turkey ranked as the world's first in a report by OECD (OECD) in March 2015. You know, in the southeast, kids haven't been trained in 40 days. A few days ago, the Ministry of National Education announced the need for another 20 days for security forces in the process. So, what happens next? The necessary measures were not taken before the operations began. Now, for these kids who can't take exams and can't get an education, they're thinking about making-up classes, weekends courses. Let's just say you've done that, but how will the psychology of the children who live in bombed, shot houses be compensated? Actually, I made this promise to the Minister -- he was just sitting -- to ask him that, but now that Mr. Secretary is gone, I think it's going to stay in the air like we did before. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0088par0486	Thank you. Mr. Budak... No Mr. Budak? I guess not. Mr. Parsak...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0089par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to begin by asking the Almighty for mercy of all our saints who have been martyrs today, as they have been for weeks and days. You know, Mevlit Kandili today. I, too, celebrate this blessed night of the night of the sacred Turkish nation, of the Turkish Islamic world and of all mankind, my constituency of the election, and of my Afyonkarahisar countrymen, I call upon the Lord God to bless us for good. Mevlit Kandili has invited everyone to be sensitive in this regard, particularly in the political power, reminding them that it is the order of the Supreme Creator and the Prophet, not to extend a hand in order to fight corruption on December 17th or 25th.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0090par0495	Thank you. Last speaker, Mr. Eat...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0091par0498	Mr. President, first of all, good luck with your mission. On the way here, today, I spoke to our mayor and our governor-in-law in Banaz district of Uğurük, and the governor-in-law has made a special request from me. The government hospital in Banaz County is being auctioned for construction in 2012, and the current constructive firm is going bankrupt last year, and there's not a move on this side from last year's bankruptcy. And all the necessary equipment for the Banaz State Hospital has arrived, unfortunately left to rot in the warehouse. I'd like to ask our Minister of Health to take care of this immediately.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit01spe0090par0500	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 17th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Buli Yıldırım wanted to respond together to proposals in the "Promised Questions" section of the agenda at 1, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 56, 64, 69, 78, 79, 80, 85, 87, 88, and 98. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are two motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 12, 2015, we propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation under the grounds provided by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to determine the reasons for the shootings and deaths committed in the District of Göle, Ardahan Province, on July 12, 2015. 1) Coral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] In the morning hours of July 12th, Kamber Morkoc, Emine Morkoc, the Great Morkoc, Liberal Morkoç, Sabri Morkoç and Altan Akin have been scanned with long-barreled weapons from the village of Semenoglu in Ardahan Lake, and from Erzurum-Gele, two days before Erzum-Gele. The van driver drove the vehicle back 200 meters so that no more bullets could hit them, preventing more casualties. His wheels burst, the van found injured, stopped 500 meters away by a black Jeep. Two people with long-barreled guns who identified themselves as undercover officers, who said, "You're going to the terrorists without looking at the identities of the people in the van." they have made accusations. The people in the van have been denied requests to call an ambulance, and they have been asked to follow their own vehicles as long as they have the identity of the van driver. That's what made the wounded late for the hospital. Following the incident, the gendarmes and police stations were asked about these two civilian police officers, but authorities said the people mentioned were not recognized. The identity certificate received by the police has been handed over to him by people who say that Alkan Akin was an undercover police officer who went to the police station for his testimony. As a result of the attack, the injured in the vehicle tried to reach the hospital on its own grounds that the medics did not send an ambulance, but 70-year-old Kanber Morkoc died. Sabri Morkoc, a mayor of Peoples' Democratic Party, was seriously injured in a gunshot wound to the abdomen; Erzurum Ataturk University has been operated on at the Faculty of Research Hospital, but his health remains serious. In his statement, Ardahan Governorate stated that the city car they sent for water cuts had been hijacked, had been contacted by Erzurum Governorate to cover water cuts and retrieve the vehicle, and an operation was launched by security forces. He also stated that the city's vehicle was incinerated and that the gendarmes were in the area to investigate on the day of the incident, while the PKK said that the armed forces had opened fire and that a civilian vehicle had been searched as a result of the shooting and that two people had been injured and one person had been killed. However, the statement made by the governorship is inconsistencies and claims contrary to the usual course of life. In talks with the people of Lakene, it has been said that there has been no problems with water in the region, that the city vehicle has been brought in for some time, not for water problems with the forest area, but for tree cutting, and that the trees that have been cut down have been transported by the designated city vehicle. It is also among the information recorded that there were military concentrations and condensations in the area and around the time of the incident. The fact that the undercover officers mentioned in the incident knew the names of the victims regardless of their identity requires explanation. It is also doubtful that civil forces arrived near the scanned vehicle, but they were found in the van, and that a dying person did not call an ambulance and leave people to die. As a result, the statement made by the governorship does not reflect the truth, but the way it happened indicates that civilians were being scanned by soldiers. Another important issue is that, due to tensions due to military intensity in the district of Lakere the day before, HDP Taşkın Aktaş met with the Governor of Ardahan at the time and expressed the need to avoid ongoing peace talks and military intervention that would be damaged by the locals. As far as we're concerned, it is imperative that the Ardahan-Gole incident, which resulted in civilian injuries and deaths, be cleared up. In this respect, a deep investigation into the cause and the consequences of the incident would have to be requested by parliament to investigate solutions in order to ensure that those responsible would be identified and that such events would never happen again. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the legal dimensions of violence against women who are coming with this inequality of social gender, and to identify problems, we propose and propose the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 98, 104, and 105. 1) Coral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 12) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 24) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] Violence against a woman is all kinds of gender-based acts, which result in physical, sexual, psychological damage, or pain, as well as threats, according to the European Council of Europe's Anti-Family and Women's Violence Campaign. This definition also includes physical and mental assaults within the family or home environment, emotional and psychological abuse, rape and sexual harassment, incest, spouses in a regular or irregular relationship, rape, blood feuds, and forced marriage. Violence against women is a clear violation of human rights. This violation deprives women of the use of their basic rights and freedoms, thus exposing women to greater abuses. The situation is one of the biggest obstacles to the equality of men and women. The fact that women's murders have increased in recent years reveals a painting that she has no right to live. So the woman who has been exposed to all the forms of violence that we have listed above her is also facing some kind of deformity, and all the efforts of women organizations are free of charge, and women's murders are increasingly legitimate. Legal regulations have lost meaning in the hands of enforcers, and the policy of punishment by the judicial mechanisms of women's murders is today's painful painting. Today, the courts have not been able to escape the hegemony of male mentality, when women's rights are being deliberately defended, the development of social gender consciousness and various gains related to it have been achieved, and many legal regulations are being tried in favor of women. If we look at a number of court decisions issued in the past few months, the painful panoram of today's Turkey will appear in front of us. One of the court's verdicts has been acquitted as the defendant was sentenced to 42 years in prison in the case of a woman who was kidnapped by gun force at the age of 20 and brought from Şanlıurfa to Istanbul and was beaten with a hose at a construction site. Again, an example of a case in which the 14-year-old accused of rape was applied to the accused of rape has held a lot of ground on the agenda. In the recent past, a woman was stabbed to death, while the court ruled that she died twice. In the case of September 13th, the woman was stabbed in 16 places, while the defendant "the defendant... went to the park where they met with the victim all the time, with a knife, with a knife in hand from the intense love of his inner passion and the rage of his mood. As a result of his rage, he struck the victim with a knife." He received a reduced sentence with the decision that his statements were included. In all of these examples, we also witness that the courts now form their own literature in cases of violence against women. "You'll keep the stick from her back and the colt from her belly." Men who act on their motto, "respectful attitude," "freedom," "loser of love," they are free to live with decisions made by their own mind worlds, and all women who suffer the consequences of these decisions, not just the victims of cases. Moreover, these examples are not only a sign that the inequality of men and women is manifest, but also a clear statement of violence against women by court decisions. Violence against women in Turkey is no longer domestic violence and has become institutional. Sadly, there is a trial at the head of institutions that lead to institutionalization of violence against women and produce social gender inequality. As I have explained, it is necessary to request a full investigation of law enforcement practices on the turning of violence and right-of-life violations against women to an almost encouraging extent, and a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion to open a general meeting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose general talks on behalf of the HDP Group in accordance with Articles 101, 102, 103 of the Constitutional Charter 98 and Interior Charter (the Constitution) concerning the tensions between Turkey and Russia that began with the shooting of a plane. The AKP's foreign policy, especially after 2010, has failed each international development and is on the verge of bankruptcy. The goal of zero problems has become a zero-neighbor phenomenon. Although the reciprocity problem on the state plane was sought by the AKP to resolve relations with various structures, the result of this policy has brought heavy bills to our country and continues to bring them to us. In addition to the problems with Iran, Syria, Iraq, as of the time we arrived, the incident with Russia is that the AKP's wrong foreign policy will be billed to the people of Turkey by its own size. Given that the AKP's foreign policy has been bankrupt for a long time, the AKP's practical Turkish peoples' doubts and problems have become clear to them. On 24/11/2015, SU-24 Russian aircraft were shot down by TSK jets for violating Turkey's airspace and not ending the breach, despite being warned 10 times. The crash of the plane and later developments opened the door to a crisis that would mark history for Turkey. After the Russian plane was shot down, political and military officials issued a series of statements. The President, Prime Minister, TSK, Russia, the United States, NATO, the EU and Syria have voiced statements that show whether the Turkish airspace has been violated or not. Russia, which was shot down by TSK jets, shares satellite images of its planes not violating Turkey's airspace via media, while NATO says, "We are closely monitoring the situation of the crash of the plane that is in violation of the border." He made a statement. Turkey has made its statement that the Russian plane was warned 10 times by political authorities, that it was intervened in the warnings. In addition, the details of Russian President Vladimir Putin's statements indicate that the incident of the Russian plane's landing would take on different levels of international relations. "This event goes beyond the fight against terrorism. What happened today was that terrorists' accomplices stabbed us in the back. I can't describe what happened today in any other way. ISIS is also protected by an army of countries. This explains how ISIS can kill people in the most brutal way and how they can launch terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe." His remarks signaled that the incident would be discussed in different places. The essence of this crisis with Russia, which has serious ties in trade, political and diplomatic aspects, is the AKP's mistakes in foreign policy. The AKP, which brought the European Union talks to a freezing point, continued serious contradictions with the United States and Syria, weakened the Allied network in the Middle East, and was on the verge of a crisis with Russia, has put all the peoples in our country and region in a position to be harmed. The whole world is on the agenda of public opinion, where Turkey has created Syrian politics through a religious line and has supported gangs such as ISIS, Al Nusra and Ahar-ush Damascus because Kurds do not want to win. AKP's support for gangs as part of its sectarian and anti-Kurdish policy has led to the destruction of all peoples in Syria, especially Kurds, Turkmens Russia and its natural gas are inevitable that huge economic capacities developed through many areas, especially tourism, will not be damaged. The day the Russian plane was shot down, the stock market suffered major damage and the sudden rise of the dollar caused alarms in the economy. Such problems with Russia, which is one of the main subjects in regional peace, co-ordinated with China and Iran, can lead to a situation that will bring damage to Turkey in every way. The HDP believes the AKP should give up its foreign policy, which is billed increasingly to all Turkish and Middle Eastern peoples. Again, we say that a foreign policy, which prioritizes the benefits of the peoples of the Middle East and the peoples of Turkey and not groups and illegitimate structures, must be put into action immediately. We believe that the AKP should base its will on all the people there, especially the Kurdish people in Syria, and establish its policy accordingly. It is clear that a Turkey that built the democratic republic will function tremendously in the facility of regional peace. We demand a general discussion on behalf of the HDP Group in accordance with Articles 101, 102, 103 of the Constitution, for the sake of the information of the TBMM, and for the establishment of the right foreign policy. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and the preliminary discussion on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Bektasoglu, you're in the system, you want to talk about your position. I give you my word for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0092par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate the lamp of our people. I ask God's mercy for our brother Birkan Gündüz from the district of Shebinkarahisar, which we lost yesterday in Giresun province. Mr. President, many of the village-group roads taken into the Giresun network are abandoned to their fate. These roads, which are 20 to 30 kilometers in length, have not been completed in 14 or 15 years, unfortunately. The Giresun-Battering Way, which has 30,000 populations, is one of them. As with every election season, these roads, which were put on display by bringing in business machines, but were later stopped, were unfortunately unemployable, even though the contract date had already passed. Other than the Giresun-Batling Way in Turkey, is there another road that has been on the highway network that hasn't been finished in 15 years? Thank you. I've brought it to your attention.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0093par0151	Thank you. Dear MPs, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Tuesday 22/12/2015 (now) it cannot be gathered, I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On December 9, 2015, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair İdris Baluken gave (224 rows no. The parliamentary inquiry motion, issued to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the violations of the curfews declared unlawfully by various governors following the government's policies on the basis of the conflict, has been proposed to be read in the following motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations Tuesday (22/12/2015). The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan. Mr. Ayhan, your time has been ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0167	Mr. President, dear friends, we are going through a very painful and burning process as Turkey. The period that we've been through is a process that can be very historical, both in terms of foreign policy and in terms of domestic policy. In foreign policy, Turkey is fully involved in a war process as a result of AKP government's nationalisation policies. On the one hand, Mosul, Russia, and Syria's provocative, violent policies have brought Turkey to the brink of a war in the region. The AKP is unfortunately facing such a disaster by starting the war as a solution to all social problems, especially the Kurdish problem, which it cannot solve in itself, and Turkey is quickly dragged into chaos and crisis. This needs to be well known by everyone. More recently, in a five-month period, just after the June 7th elections, Turkey was tried to implement a tremendous amount of state terrorism, along with curfews. The people's will, the public's self-government stance, the police and military methods have been tried to terrorize them, to destroy them by means of war. The main reason for this so far is the unresolved policies in the 100-year-old Kurdish problem, including the process in which AKP is in power, and today the AKP is seeking and striving to impose war and violence on society. I don't know if you've seen it, but there's no room for the elders. There's a line there. The killer's going into a convenience store. He's pointing at his victim, throwing his money in the air. ▪ Writing or heads, he says. She says, "You'll kill me if I say anything." And the killer turns to him, and he says, "I will kill you, even if you write, or heads." So that's what AKP is doing to us today, and that's what he's giving us in front of society. In any case, I will fight the Kurdish people and everyone who advocates their rights in Turkey.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0095par0172	No, that's not what we're saying. You're making him up, we're not saying that.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0173	Look, the Kurdish problem is a 100-year-old problem, and over the past three years, a great will has been established. The Kurdish people have established this will on the basis of building their own self-government and democratic autonomy, and have demonstrated this tender stance from the peace table, from the solution table, from the whole existence of its existence, but what happened? In this process, the AKP and Mr. Erdogan, who have come up with a sense of self-responsibility with the election account, overturning the peace table and the solution table, said this process is over.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0095par0174	Why did you break the ceasefire?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0175	Thus, those who ended this process tried to put their own compulsion against the free will of the Kurdish people, against the violence and barbarism that they had created.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0095par0176	You're the one who broke the truce. Why didn't you have the guns buried?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0177	And you have to make it very clear from here that we've been in favor of unity, unity, integrity, in the past and in the present. We also worked as hard and as hard as we could to ensure that. Thousands of our people were slaughtered, thrown into dungeons, banished, their villages burned and tortured. But it has to be well known that the Kurds, despite all of this, are not obliged to live together. If you block the way for us to live together, the Kurds will show their will and posture to the end to put their own choices in a different way.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0096par0178	Who are you speaking for?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0179	Look, I'm speaking for my party.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0097par0180	Speak for yourself.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0096par0181	Speak for yourself.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0182	To terrorize and criminalize Kurds today's righteous struggle by judging the Kurds through simple moats is certainly to shatter truth and reality.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0098par0183	Then you won't be able to put your backs into the trenches.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0099par0184	Congressmans, let's hear the speaker, please.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0185	The moats are part of a 100-year story of Kurdish resistance. Don't let anyone deflect it or twist it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0098par0186	Then you're not a democracy of the people, you're a ditch party.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0187	The Kurdish people have been fighting for over a hundred years to defend and protect their own existence, their own identity, their own culture. Starting a war against the Kurdish people today, citing the young behind the trenches, is a reflection of September 12th fascism, the mindset of the Kenan universe, which means nothing more than that. Mr. Davutoglu says that denial, assimilation and destruction are over, but on the other hand, he threatens to kill us every day because we have our own will, our own existence, our own identity.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0098par0189	Don't confuse the identity of terrorists with the identity of Kurds.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0190	I would like to address Mr. Davutoglu here: You cannot frighten us with your threats. In any case, we will be on the side of this people's honorable resistance. We never accept a life without honor, without an identity. Whatever you do, you will not be able to stop us from this righteous struggle, this honorable struggle, and our stand.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0100par0191	You never understood the Kurds.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0192	Thus, a couple of words are directed especially to those who remain silent against this atrocities against the Kurdish people. Today, a very deepened, widespread war concept is being implemented in the region.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0101par0193	It's a fight against terror... using violence on Kurdish people!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0194	This is not the fight against terrorism!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0101par0195	Do not identify the Kurds with the PKK!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0196	This is the fight against your fascism!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0101par0197	You're the Fascist!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0198	We resist your fascism.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0101par0199	You're the Fascist! There are no fascists greater than you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0102par0200	Mr. Ayhan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0201	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0103par0202	You're holding your back and talking about fascism!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0102par0203	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0204	We have not given in to fascism, nor shall we bow. Thousands of us are dead, and yet we will gladly die for our own honor, for our own identity. This needs to be well known.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0104par0206	Who's it for? Who's it for?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0094par0207	Everyone has to have a particular claim against it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0105par0208	Go to the trenches!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0106par0209	Stop abusing Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0107par0210	Hey, shut up and listen!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0108par0211	You don't get results by tearing the truth apart, by tearing the truth apart.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0106par0213	Don't speak for the Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0109par0214	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0108par0215	Look, last year I was with the resistance of the people against ISIS brutality in Kobani.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0106par0216	Fascism has captured Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0108par0217	About a year ago, I stood by the people's resistance to ISIS barbarism, and the Kurdish people fought a great human race there.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0106par0218	People are complaining about you! The people are complaining about your fascism!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0108par0219	What happened? ISIS barbarism has been defeated. What happened? Kobani was not delivered to the barbarians, to the savages.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0110par0220	Be against PKK pressure, then!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0106par0221	Don't abuse Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0108par0222	In spite of what? It was done despite the AKP's support and Mr Erdoğan's support for ISIS. Just like today, look today...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0111par0224	Southeast Anatolia and East Anatolia will not be handed over to the barbarians!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0112par0225	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please let's hear from the clerk.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0113par0226	The preacher is slandering, Mr. President!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0114par0227	Look, today you're going to hit the resistance in Cizre, in Nusaybin, in Silopi, in Sur, and in Kobani. There's a human struggle going on there, too. There's a struggle for honor there too, a struggle for resistance. It's an ontological struggle. It's a human struggle.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0115par0229	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0114par0230	All those who call themselves human beings have to show respect for this struggle of humanity.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0116par0231	By killing doctors, by killing imams, by killing children, right, right.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0114par0232	Let me make this very clear...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0116par0233	You don't just kill cops, soldiers, children, women, imams, doctors. You burn hospitals there.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0117par0234	You're killing the eight-month-old baby in the womb.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0114par0235	These people know very well who's working with, who's working with, who's working with. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, Mr. Davutoglu says he'll pray on Friday at Cizre. ISIS had given the day to pray on Friday in Kobani. This is the head of ISIS, and the head of Davutoglu is the same.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0118par0238	We also curse the PKK, and we curse ISIS.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0119par0239	The Kurds saw you cooperate with terrorism.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0118par0240	Down with ISIS, down with the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0120par0241	ISIS is your brother.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0121par0242	We're dealing with an Islamic mind that's becoming barbaric.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0122par0243	You say your name, your name.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0121par0244	I'd like to say that the last word is either a life of honor or a glorious resistance. We will always stand by the resistance of our people; we will never, ever accept slavery, we will not surrender.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0123par0246	You've already surrendered!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0124par0247	The Kurds recognized you. These are rhetorical.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0125par0248	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0126par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0125par0250	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0126par0251	In his speech, the speaker expressed it as a political will for the AK PARTI group, forging, accusing, enticing war. In this framework, I demand a say in the taunt according to 69.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0125par0252	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0126par0257	Mr. President, dear friends, in the June 7th elections, the People's Democratic Party received 13 per cent of the vote, a 10.7 per cent vote on November 1st, but if it continues with this head, it will remain under the dam.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0127par0259	He'll be under a ditch.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0128par0260	He'll be buried in a ditch with that head on his head.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0129par0261	Don't get smart, mind your own business.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0130par0262	Dear friends, what has happened since June 7th? This is what happened since June 7th, and the People's Democratic Party has ignored...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0131par0263	The battle of the palace.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0130par0264	...a terrorist organization called the PKK launched an action to reach its political goals in the east with terrorism, threats, oppression and persecution, and to carry the revolutionary public war strategy to practice.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0132par0265	And you took care of the logistics, all right.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0130par0266	This was a concept of digging a ditch, playing self-government, hiding behind the public to bring the public against them, firing at security forces, raising conflict, violence in order to get blood and fire all over the place. We've never once heard a sentence from friends that criticised the PKK's terrorist initiative, the lives of these people, their futures, their fates. I assure you, they say they speak for the Kurds, and that's not fair. The Kurds are at various parties, not only do you have them, but as far as I know, there are Turks in you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0133par0267	There are all the people.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0134par0268	Everybody's got it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0130par0269	So, to come out here as if speaking on behalf of a certain ethnic identity and to evaluate it in a provocative language...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0135par0271	Get rid of this ethnicism, Mayor. You're heading towards racism, the pupa sail.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0130par0272	...as if to close the initiatives of PKK terrorists, it is wrong to present as if the state versus the public, to close eyes on reality, not serve peace in this country. Peace be with you, peace be with you! Please don't take part in the conflict!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0137par0275	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0276	Mr. orator, clearly, during his speech, he has made us advocacy for war, saying, "Let peace be your place." At the same time, he said the HDP had been wrong ever since June 7th and would remain under the dam.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0137par0277	According to 69, I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0280	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've been saying over and over again what happened after June 7th: after June 7th, a coup law came into play, coup law. The door of this House was locked, parliament could not work two days in a row, the decision to re-election was taken from the palace without any parliamentary commissions. All of those practices were an open political coup, not based on 80 MPs and 13 per cent people's will.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0138par0283	Tell me about the PKK, Mr. Baluken, tell me about the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0284	There is nothing more natural against this palace coup than for all peoples, especially the Kurdish people, to enter a resistance.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0139par0285	Don't say all the peoples.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0138par0286	Tell me about the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0287	Because you put that concept of impact into the field with a war process. First, you led the army out of the barracks in Diyadin, and sent them into the operation. You had the bombs detonated in Adana, Mersin, Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0138par0288	Tell me about the terrorists who killed the cops in your bed.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0289	You made the massacres in Suruç, Ankara. You started government terrorism against the public.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0140par0291	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0141par0292	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, may I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0293	Of course, the people would go to resistance against all these practices, to carry out the resistance to peace against the concept of coup and war, and there's nothing more natural than that.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0142par0294	We have hundreds of evidence of PKK's actions! Where's your proof?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0295	We consider the people's will to be worth 5 percent more than the 49.5% vote we will receive by impact.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0143par0296	What will, a gun?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0144par0297	It is the will of the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0298	So far, our position as HDP is clear...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0145par0299	You're with the PKK, very clear.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0300	We never said war, we always said peace. As for Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)... I say as the deputy in those talks: If the PKK is clearly engaged in formal negotiations, I begin preparations for the disarmament congress. But there is no table, there is no solution, there is no side, there is no agreement, there is no Kurdish problem. Because it is Erdogan who says that this war is going on today.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0146par0302	Is that why you martyred the cops?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0136par0303	You don't need to twist it at all, it stands before you as a figure of shame, who started the war, who massacred the baby in whose womb.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0147par0305	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0148par0306	12,407 cops, soldiers, rangers killed! They all had children, they all had children, they all had children.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0147par0307	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0149par0308	When was he killed? In what process was he killed? You have no idea who was killed in the process of solving? There's not a single death in the process of solving it, not a single death.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0147par0309	Mr. Baluken, members of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0150par0310	They lost their eyes, they lost their feet, they lost their arms for their country.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0149par0311	No one died for the country, no one died for the palace.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0147par0312	Dear MPs, I will now promise Adıyaman MP Adnan Könukara. But from his place, Mr. Yilmaz........... Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, I promise you one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0151par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, looking at the talks between the Justice and Development Party and the HDP... there was a tie between the two groups that came to this point. In other words, Yalçın Akdoğan was headed by Dolmabahçe Palace, where AKP Group Deputy Chairman Mahir Ünal and other members of the group, HDP group MPs. Now, we almost see a boatman fight blaming each other for these events. If Turkey has come to this point, it has been one of the Justice and Development Party's practices for three and a half years. Wasn't it the AKP Group that sent the HDP MPs to Imralı as a hope for Abdullah Ocalan? Weren't you together at Dolmabahçe Palace? Where were you when these trenches were dug? Isn't this band here? So when we say these things, when we point to the present... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't you think you're responsible for this kind of boat-wrecker fighting here today, those who call us the feeders of blood? Have you been tricked again?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0152par0324	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a member of parliament who participates in these negotiations, I would like to briefly share my views with you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0153par0326	You're the Deputy Speaker of the House, not the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0152par0327	I will, Mr. Lawmakers, I will. I felt the need to make a brief assessment after Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0153par0329	But you can't run with the Deputy Speaker of Congress and the vice president of the group today.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0154par0330	Mr. President, you can't participate in the debate.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0153par0331	You're the Deputy Speaker of the House, not the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0154par0332	There's no way you're going to participate in the debates under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0155par0333	Congressmans, I was a congressman who attended those meetings. The talks on that period were talks on peace, and now we'll agree to those talks. I just wanted to share it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0156par0334	Why did you agree to this, Mr. President? What negotiations did you make? Tell us about them, Mr. President, as someone in those negotiations.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0155par0338	Now, against the proposal, Mr. Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara. Here you go, Mr. Boyukar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time has been ten minutes. I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0343	Mayor, I wish you the best of luck with your new assignment. Dear MPs, I have made a commitment to HDP's proposal to investigate the destruction of the curfews in society. After the June 7th elections, the proposal begins with an unfortunate sentence, as democratic politics has been rescinded. We all know what happened after June 7th. I'd like to share some information with you to remember what happened after the June 7th elections. PKK's terrorist organisation announced it ended the conflict on July 11th. PKK's terrorist organisation declared it launched a revolutionary public war on July 13th. The PKK's terrorist organisation called for total arms and total war on July 20th. So, what happened until we got to the process?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0158par0346	What did you do until then?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0347	Hundreds of terrorist incidents have occurred, dam constructions have been attacked, thousands of vehicles have been burned. Now, given these, who blocked civil politics after the election? Who called for a war?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0159par0348	PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0349	Who wanted war?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0159par0350	PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0351	President Erdogan is the only leader who has taken a position, made a decision, and applied it to solve Turkey's 100-year-old gangrene problem. President Erdogan knows well that most of the friends who are involved in politics here -- I don't think they're doing it right, they're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0160par0353	What do you mean, what do you mean, they're not right?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0161par0354	What do you mean?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0355	Something's wrong.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0160par0356	What do you mean, you're going to decide what we're going to talk about?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0357	You can decide what you want to talk about, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0162par0358	You don't have the right to advise us.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0160par0359	You have no right to advise us, speak up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0360	Ma'am, I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0163par0361	What's the matter? Don't mess up your memoir!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0362	Who tried to turn the country into a bloodbath by taking orders from global intelligence organizations? Dear lawmakers, the PKK has an affair with the terrorist organization and its use of global forces. The terrorist organisation is known to be involved in projects created by global forces, especially in Syria. PKK's terrorist organisation and derivatives are coming on the agenda, not with the problems of Kurdish citizens, but with a mission imposed on them in regional political games. Therefore, they market the government and the nation's legitimacy loans to external powers through the problems and representation of Kurds. One of the things that is wrongly used in these discussions is the process of solutions. The solution process is to rid the terrorist organization of weapons that do not want to give up the weapon; the elimination of weapons, violence and terrorism, which prevents Kurds, Turks, and, in short, all people living in this geography from demanding equal citizenship. Dear lawmakers, operations are being carried out as a legal state to protect the safety of citizens, to end the civil war and dissolution of the terror network, all kinds of trials and murders. The state protects the rights of citizens in the region as it protects the rights of all citizens. The aim behind the organisation's constantly forcing Kurds to fight is to force poor Kurdish children to die and break up. The most concrete indicator of this is that in some areas of Diyarbakır, you do not terrorize and act in the slightest in some areas. The problem is the bitchiness of a bloody and dirty organization that imposes blood and tears on the Kurds at gunpoint and on behalf of the outside forces. All those who are connected to this country by citizenship, together they're going to wipe out this bitchy gang.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0164par0366	I hope so.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0157par0367	Dear lawmakers, in the EC PARTY's rule, our country's long-delayed and delayed radical problems have been faced with courage and permanent solutions to these problems have been developed. The will to resolve our many years of victims' social problems within the framework of brotherhood and equal citizenship law. The solution process has been initiated to eliminate the environment that terrorism has produced and fed, strengthen equal citizenship and to close Turkey's democracy gap. Despite all threats, blackmail and provocations from the inside and the outside, this process continued with great determination and intense zeal, but when you remembered the events that we had mentioned earlier, the PKK was interrupted by the terrorist organization. We don't expect this problem to be solved by a weapon. However, there is no doubt or doubt that the operations launched in order to end the attacks launched by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in order to clear the area of illegal armed elements within our borders. These operations will continue until everyday life in Diyarbakır, Şırnak and Hakkari will become as usual as in İzmir,Yabeleli, or PKK's armed elements will leave the country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Despite the weapons, the mines, despite the blasphemy, the insults in their language, despite the anger and violence in their hearts, despite all the false accusations and accusations, despite all the efforts of provocation and manipulation, their forces were in no way able to stop the shaking of our social foundations, our equal citizenship law and will, not enough, not enough, not enough. In short, it will not be allowed to dig ditchs in any province or district in the east, to collect tributes, to threaten people. There's only one armed element within the country's borders, and it's security forces. Other than that, no armed construction will be allowed within the country's borders. The only way the EC PARTY knows how to solve problems is by speaking and arguing. We believe that politics is the only solution to all problems. We're not going to give bonuses to any attitude that ignores politics, tries to neutralize it. Dear lawmakers, what right is required by digging ditchs, laying mines on roads, taking the lives of our young ones? It is clear that ditch politics developed through ditch terrorism and ditch terror is not the answer. The solution is in the new constitution, based on politics, parliament and equal citizenship. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY will not or will not be a political partner in any bloody, dirty attitude. AK PARTY is the name of the will based on national, domestic and equal citizenship. Everyone speak for themselves or for the people they represent. The preacher just mentioned the breakup on behalf of all Kurds. In my opinion, on June 7th, on 1st of November, friends who want to vote with the slogan "Turkeyisation" should share their position with the public. Dear lawmakers, wearing masks is a burden to man, both to the bearer and to those who are trying to understand it; indeed, the mask is a burden. What's really important is that people come out the way they are, that they make their thoughts clear, that they're not done. We don't think the understanding that makes the team speaks of solutions, equal citizenship and the interests of Kurds. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0165par0378	Thank you, Mr. Bonekara.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0166par0379	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0165par0380	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0166par0381	During his speech, Mr. Orator teased him, saying that he had defended the separation and that we had come to a statement of separation from the Turkey-based project, and that he had been taunting HDP on our behalf. We'd like to respond to abuses on both behalf of the individual and on behalf of the group according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0167par0382	Mr. President, none of my speech has been made, so I suggest you ask for the transcripts and take a look.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0168par0383	Let's take a look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0169par0384	Mr. Bauken, on behalf of the group and on behalf of the person, I give you my word.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0168par0385	On what grounds, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0170par0386	The name of Ibrahim Bey was taunted by the name of the person. After Ibrahim Bey, I will rephrase on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0169par0387	Okay. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0171par0389	Mr. President, listen to me, if you want. I don't want to talk about the podium.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0169par0390	I'm so sorry, Mr. Altay. Mr. Ayhan, one moment, please... Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0172par0395	Good luck with your mission, first of all. If I'm not mistaken, my congressman has said something to the President of the United States that can't be spoken of.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0173par0397	It's about...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0172par0398	From this stand, not to the President, but to anyone, that cannot be done, but as long as he does it wrong, the President will be spoken of. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0174par0401	What does that have to do with anything if you love God?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0172par0402	He will, he's wrong, brother.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0174par0403	A magpie on the roof...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0172par0404	Who said that?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0174par0405	I'm, I'm...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0172par0406	Don't do anything in advance, I mean, talk to the President... you're making a habit of it. As long as he's wrong, he'll be spoken of.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0175par0407	Mr. Ayhan, come in. Your time is two minutes. Don't make a new taunt, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0176par0412	Mr. President and my dear friends, in my speech earlier, I certainly didn't mention that we advocate separation, separation. I said that the Kurds were forced to break up and make different choices against these war policies against the Kurds, and in particular...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0177par0413	Who are the Kurds? Who are the Kurds?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0176par0414	I'm a Kurd.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0177par0415	Who are the Kurds? Who's Kurd?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0176par0416	I'm a Kurd!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0177par0417	I'm Kurdish too!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0176par0418	As Kurds, I don't have to resort to this kind of treatment.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0177par0419	You're Kurd, I'm Kurd, who's Kurd?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0178par0420	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0179par0421	That's enough! You do wrong in the mornings and evenings.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0178par0422	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0180par0423	So, we...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0181par0424	How can you say Kurds? Who are you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0178par0426	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0181par0427	No, how can you say Kurds?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0178par0428	Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0181par0429	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0182par0430	You don't talk like that.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0183par0431	What do you mean, who am I? Congressman. Sit down!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0184par0432	Who are you, who are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0185par0433	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0186par0434	You can't say such a thing!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0187par0435	I'm Kurdish!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0188par0436	Who are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0187par0437	I'm Kurdish!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0188par0438	I'm Kurdish!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0187par0439	I'm Kurdish!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0188par0440	I'm Kurdish too!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0189par0441	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0190par0442	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0191par0443	I am Kurd, I am!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0192par0444	Who are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0191par0445	I am Kurd, my parents are Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0193par0446	Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0194par0447	You're exploiting Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0191par0448	You're exploiting Kurds! You live off Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0195par0449	Don't speak someone else's language!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0196par0450	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0197par0451	Mr. Ayhan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0195par0452	You live in masks, you speak in someone else's language!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0198par0453	You feed on the blood of Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0199par0454	You're abusing me!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0198par0455	You live off the bodies of Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0200par0456	You're not yourself.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0198par0457	Who are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0200par0458	You're capable!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0201par0459	Mr. Ayhan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0198par0460	Leave the Kurds alone!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0202par0461	Sit down, sit down! Don't shake your hand like that! Sit down! Don't be rude! Sit down!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0203par0462	We are not slaves to you, we will not be slaves to you. So, look, we don't want to...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0198par0463	Leave the Kurds alone! The Kurds let you go, you let them go! Mr. President- Mr. Lawmakers, please... You're the tyrant! You're oppressing the public with your weapons!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0204par0466	...we're fighting for the people. So the language of the mindset that killed the 15-day-old child, which led thousands of people to slaughter, can't be for life.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0205par0468	Can you fucking tell the PKK?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0204par0469	The speaker who spoke before me knows me well: We have paid a great price.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0206par0471	Face the unjust executions of the PKK, you can't talk without facing them! You cannot speak without facing the judicial executions of the PKK!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0204par0472	He's interrupting, Mr. President, and I can't speak.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0206par0473	You can't talk! You can't talk!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0207par0474	You're the ones who did the massacre!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0204par0475	You're entitled to your say-so. To the Kurds...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0208par0477	You're not a representative of the Kurds. Don't say "PKK" or "PKK" or "Kurts." "Don't say Kurds, say PKK, say HDP!" Don't say Kurds, it's a shame!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0209par0478	Don't wave that finger like that! Don't shake that finger! Be a gentleman, be a gentleman!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0210par0479	Put your finger down! Put the finger down!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0211par0480	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0212par0481	Mr. Ayhan, your two minutes are up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0213par0482	I couldn't talk.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0214par0483	Who are you? Who are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0215par0484	Don't wave that finger like that! Be a gentleman! Don't be rude! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0216par0485	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0214par0486	I am Kurd, don't speak for the Kurds! Shame!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0217par0487	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0218par0488	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the MPs, the dear friends...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0219par0490	Why don't you warn me? Who is it?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0220par0491	Look at the finger!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0218par0492	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0219par0493	Who are you? Who are you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0218par0494	Mr. Lightning, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0221par0495	It was the Kurdish children who were killed by the PKK, Kurd! The PKK killed Kurdish children, tell them! If you're defending the Kurds, speak against whoever kills the Kurds.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0222par0496	Don't yell like that! Don't shout!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0223par0497	Wait a minute... come talk here... look, you're using the same authoritarian language.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit02spe0224par0498	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. In the last session, the deputy leader of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Baluken, had a request for a speech from Mr. Baluken. But since we're taking a break, I won't be able to grant that request. So we'll continue the negotiations where we left off. The third speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0011	Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate you on your new assignment. You are not only on this stand as the conscience of Kurdish women, but of all women. For many years, we were with Mothers of Saturdays in Galatasaray Square. I know that you will continue this conscientious attitude with the Deputy Speaker of the House, and I wish you all the best. I also congratulate our fellow citizens on the lamp and wish it to be a blessing. Dear friends, just now, I mean, there's actually more Parliament being watched here than you know, seconds, seconds, but these conversations really hurt our citizens. There are great human dramas going on, and there are human dramas that you don't expect, that you don't know. Look, dear friends, 54 curfews have been declared in the 18 counties of 7 cities, more than 200 days have been declared, 211 days as of today. On the 9th day in Cizre, on the 9th day in Silopi, on the 9th day in Nusaybin, on the 12th day in Dargeçit, on the 12th day in Sur, on the 21st day in Sur district, there is a curfew today, 21 days in the city of Sur. Sur, Diyarbakır, the centre of the region, the heart, everything, the commercial center, historical centre, has been under curfew for 21 days and people have no freedom. Is there anyone here who explains this, understands this, understands this human drama, I mean, really? Where are we as human beings, human beings? I was in Diyarbakir yesterday. In a moment, I'll give Mr. Secretary the demands of the merchants there, the citizens. We're laying on our ears, dear friends. How did we get here? How did we get here? Do we ever really examine ourselves?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0226par0016	Let's review a CHP.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0017	Are we, dear friends? Dear friends...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0226par0019	How did he end up like this? How has he been like this for 80 years?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0227par0020	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0021	Look, don't be rude, don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0226par0022	Don't wave, don't wave at me.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0023	Don't be rude, don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0226par0024	Don't wave like that! You're talking dirty.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0025	You did the same thing the other day. You did the same thing the other day, okay?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0226par0026	Don't talk dirty, you're dirty!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0027	Shameless!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0228par0028	Mr. Godkulu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0029	Dear friends, this is it, look, this is it. That's the picture that explains the Justice and Development Party. It's a painting that doesn't understand human posture. These dear friends are the ones who taunt the deputy on the stand, make fun of people's deaths and laugh. I'm talking about a human condition, human, human.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0229par0030	You're insulting me on the stand.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0225par0031	How do you explain this, dear friends? Someone should be able to explain to me that this is in accordance with the Constitution, the Law of Mahalli Administrations. There are some very valuable lawyers who say: "The curfew of one day is in accordance with the Article of the Mahalli Administrations Act. Let us put our hand on our conscience. People are really listening to us. Yes, the AKP didn't invent Turkey's Kurdish issue, it didn't invent it, but you're the ones who brought it to this point, it's your policies, you brought it to this point, you're responsible for these deaths, it's your policies, it's your policies. Look, dear friends, there's a lot to say. I will give his word to a citizen of the Silopi, and he will speak to you. [[An audio tap from the Hatib's cell phone]] Hello! Are you listening, Yusuf? Look, can you call me, please? Call me.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0230par0037	Don't show off, show off! Don't show off!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0231par0038	Hold it down, Mr. Sezgin, hold it down.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0232par0039	Mr. Sezgin, hold the microphone down.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0233par0040	Go, go, go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0234par0041	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. He's on the stand, he's on the stand, he's on the phone. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0042	Listen, listen! Listen, look, listen.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0234par0043	Mr. President, please stop.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0236par0044	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0045	I can't tell with that feeling.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0234par0046	There's no such procedure. Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0236par0047	Mr. Godkulu, there is no such practice in our Civil Code and in our regulations.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0048	I can't tell with that feeling. Listen to the voice of the citizen. I can't tell with that feeling.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0234par0050	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0051	Listen, guys, listen.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0237par0052	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0053	Look, listen, listen, listen for a minute.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0237par0054	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0235par0055	You don't have a minute, you don't have a minute. What drama people have, what human drama they have.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0238par0056	They can't stand to listen to the citizen.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0239par0057	No, it's not a question of endurance, it's not a procedure.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0240par0058	Don't show off! Don't show off!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0241par0059	Look, since yesterday...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0239par0060	Mr. President, please step in, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0242par0061	Mr. Godkulu, it is imperative that the MPs from the bench address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0243par0062	You should address him, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0244par0063	Mr. President, I know the drill, I know the drill, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0242par0064	There is no such practice in our regulations and regulations.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0245par0065	Then we'll make more than one connection like this. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0244par0066	There is, there is such a thing. Because you don't listen, you don't listen to citizens, you don't listen to anyone, you don't listen to anyone.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0246par0068	Don't show off, show off!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0244par0069	Don't be shameless! Don't be shameless!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0247par0071	Don't insult me!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0244par0072	Know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0247par0073	You've been insulting me all morning!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0244par0074	Know your place! Know your place, okay?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0248par0075	You're gonna do it with that tongue?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0249par0076	Mr. Godkulu, please address the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0078	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs; look, really, yesterday, under fire, I went to the Diyarbakır Chamber of Commerce, under fire; I went under fire; I went under fire; I went under gunfire, dear friends. As a Diyarbakir, I'm very, very sorry that it has come to this and that it can't be spoken here. Then I spoke to the Wall tradesman, they took initiative, a thousand tradesmen met, set up a committee of 20 people, listened to themselves in the Diyarbakır Financial Advisors' Room, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0251par0079	Change your party, change your party.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0080	Then I went to the Diyarbakır Bar and listened to my friends at the Diyarbakır Bar.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0251par0081	Change your party. Be of HDP, HDP.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0252par0082	Please let's hear from the minister, Councillors.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0083	You're rude, you really are rude! You're really mean, you're really mean, really mean!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0252par0085	Mr. Godkulu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0086	Dear friends, I've heard all of them, their reports are here, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0253par0087	And you're a lawyer, and you've been insulting me all morning.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0088	If you can't stand me, you deserve everything!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0253par0089	You insult me, you insult me, and you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0090	If you can't even stand me, you deserve it!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0254par0091	Please watch your language, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0092	Dear friends, I've heard it all. Look, their demands are here, but they only have one demand: our, okay, our economy is broken, we've suffered a lot of damage, we continue to be damaged, but our concern is that Turkey's Kurdish issue be resolved first, and that's our priority.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0255par0093	You're gonna do it with that tongue?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0094	Yes, we've been hurt, we've been hurt, there's a lot of human drama going on, but you guys figure it out first. That's why we're saying it. Yes, the Kurdish issue of Turkey cannot be solved with a ditch, but not with a tank and a ball. A third way is possible, and that is Parliament. Here, you're not in this. What law proposal did you say yes to last semester, and why didn't you say yes to one? Now, you're still in front of him, still. Come on, let's get started here. Let's create a belief in them, another way is possible. Let's say it's our friends, our friends, those who listen to us. For 21 days we've been in Diyarbakir, nine days we've had a feeling of abandonment to the people living in Silopi, Cizrede, for 14 days.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0256par0097	You tell the PKK something from that stand.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0098	They feel that this state has given up on us. Let's give them something good. Has one of your ministers been to Diyarbakir for twenty days, one minister, one minister? They're just soldiers. Look, in elementary school, it starts with modern mathematical clusters, starts with clusters in middle school, starts with clusters in high school.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0257par0100	And tell the PKK, brother, to the PKK. Tell PKK something, tell PKK too.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0101	Round and round you read the same clusters, back and forth. Thirty years from now, what we've come to is war again, safety policies again. When are we gonna talk? Where do we talk? How are we going to do all this?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0258par0102	You don't talk to guns.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0103	Dear friends, so, look, the road is wrong. This road leads Turkey to destruction, which leads Turkey to another fork in the road. I'm saying my part on this stand, and I'm going to keep saying it, with my responsibility, but you listen to me.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0259par0104	Tell the PKK!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0105	There are mechanisms that we can create in this Parliament, so let's try to build those mechanisms.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0259par0106	Good morning!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0107	In 2013, you said no. We've always said that actors' roles are important in politics and solutions, but not with actors. So let's start a mechanism within the framework of Parliamentary law. No, you said. As of last week, we gave him another one. Come on, let's start somewhere. The way we propose will solve this problem. We don't call it a solution, but we create a way, give our citizens faith, give them confidence. Yes, this Parliament is listening to each other now, but we're fighting about this problem. You can't even stand me, not even me!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0260par0108	You're telling me it's immoral!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0261par0109	You're calling your MPs dirty, you dirty piece of shit! We've been listening to you for two hours!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0110	Look, dear friends, there's a lot of human drama going on, more than 200,000 of our citizens have become refugees in their own land, asylum seekers. 54 children died, 54 children, during this period. 191 civilian deaths, 191. 191 people died during these curfews. Nearly 400 people, soldiers, police lost their lives, were martyred. Are we going to keep this quiet, Parliament, or are we going to keep quiet?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0262par0111	Tell that to the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0112	So we need to be able to find other ways, other mechanisms, other methods, other ways, other ways, other ways, to get together. That's all I'm saying. I hope you got something out of what I said. I hope...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0263par0114	There's nothing wrong with that language, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0250par0115	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0264par0117	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0265par0118	You're gonna take that back.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0266par0119	I'm returning that word to you, okay?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0267par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0266par0122	How dare you call the Regents incompetent! How can you tell a group that they're dirty! We're returning it to you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0268par0123	I'll give it back to you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0269par0124	Well, get up and answer me.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0266par0125	Let's go... get out of here! Know your place! Who do you think you are!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0270par0126	Congressmans, your group's deputy president has asked for a word. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0271par0128	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0272par0129	Mr. President, they're returning the "unsavory" statement.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0270par0130	Congressmans, I warned you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0273par0131	He'll know his place! He can't say it, he can't say it. He can't say "unsavory." He can't just look at his MPs and say, "I'm not an idiot!" He'll know his place!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0274par0132	It's called rudeness.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0275par0133	Don't yell at me! Don't yell at me! Don't scream, don't scream! If you have a disease, take it. Answer me from the stand. Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0273par0134	There are lawmakers here representing a large community.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0276par0135	Congressmans, your group vice president wants a word. Mr. Bostanci, if you could just shut him up first. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0277par0138	When the speaker gave his speech, he used a generalization of our group with the expression of the shameless, the shameless.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0278par0139	No, it's not like that at all.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0279par0140	That's exactly what he said. We're returning it, Mr. Levent Gök.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0278par0141	Who did he tell? He told the fellow who interfered with him there.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0279par0142	No. It's rude to say that it's rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0280par0143	I'll break your feet! I'll break your feet!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0279par0144	It's rude to say that it's rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0280par0145	I'll break your feet! Shameless!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0281par0146	Sezgin, you shut up, you shut up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0282par0147	Congressmans, please... this is Mr. Bostanci speaking. I can't hear Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0280par0148	I'll break your feet! I'll break your feet!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0283par0149	Don't threaten me! Don't threaten me!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0284par0150	You are also responsible for these deaths.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0285par0152	Do you hear what he's saying?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0283par0153	You should know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0286par0154	Mr. Botanci, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0287par0155	I'd like to speak of bullying according to 69, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0288par0156	Do you hear what they're saying, gentlemen?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0289par0158	Can you say I didn't? I didn't say that! Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0290par0159	Mr. Bostanci, if you would please give the MPs a warning first, I am, but if you would... please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0291par0160	Guys...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0290par0161	Congressmans, your group vice president is speaking at the moment.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0292par0162	Is that a thing to say to a group of vice presidents? Is that a thing to say?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0293par0163	That's what you call it, my dear. He's saying it because you said it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0294par0164	It's rude to say that it's rude!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0292par0165	Mr. President, listen to what they're saying.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0295par0166	Mr. Altay, please, Mr. Bostanci has asked for a word and we're listening to him.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0296par0168	A shout! Don't yell at me! Let's hear from Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0292par0169	Are you offensive, sir?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0297par0170	Yeah, your group vice president asked for a word.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0298par0171	Mr. Levent, stop it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0299par0172	We say, you say to them, you say to them, Bulent. We do, but they interfere when they talk.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0300par0173	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, dear friends, a group of vice presidents have asked for and spoken. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0301par0175	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, he used the expression of the shameless, the shameless, the shameless.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0302par0176	Mr. Godkulu, does it suit you? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0303par0177	You don't talk anymore, you don't talk anymore.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0302par0178	Are you going to beat me up?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0304par0179	Wait a second, guys, this is the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0305par0180	Listen to your own group vice president.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0306par0181	Mr. Bostanci, please, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0307par0185	Mr. President, dear friends, if we want peace, if we want a solution, we owe it to our necks to speak in harmony with the language of peace and solution. It's not a peace demand, let alone peace in the field, by coming to the bench as peace and resolution. I know Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, and I know that his intentions are certainly good, and I know that his view of these matters is peaceful, but unfortunately, my observation is that whenever he takes the stand... this assembly group, the AK PARTI Group, listens to everyone and listens patiently, even with patience, but the statements of Mr. Godkulu are very harsh, rude, and hurtful. Mr. Godkulu can't do that with such language and peace and resolution. Our request, in fact, from all speakers, is that if we're going to negotiate here, we have to talk among ourselves, without questioning anyone, without hurting anyone, without hurting anyone, without being rude, immoral! And so on, this is the platform, without saying it, and we have to put our words to the other side. Please, don't let anyone speak in the language of anyone's patience, honor, to question them here, and let no one make a move. Especially when it's a very unfortunate exchange of words. Look, I'm ashamed to say here that Mr. Godkulu has a saying to our group vice president while he sits in his place.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0308par0187	We'll settle this in court.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0307par0188	I'm sure he'll apologize in person. He'll apologize personally for that promise. Those aren't appropriate words. Friends, our opinion on these matters... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... may be different, our approaches may be different, but let our language be common in a civilized language. My respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0309par0194	We're returning exactly what he said, exactly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0310par0195	Mr. Bostanci, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0311par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0310par0197	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0311par0198	Mr. President, I'd like to transfer our group's evaluation in two minutes, as to the discussion that just took place and the assessments of Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0310par0199	Here you are, Mr. Altay. I'll give you two minutes. Please, don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0312par0203	Thank you. Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, there is one thing I say on every occasion: politics is primarily a matter of kindness and conscience. I'd like to underline that one. Second, from the day our Parliament was founded to the day it is a ritual of taunting and slandering. This is the absolute necessity of Parliament. I have no objection to that either, two. But I've just considered Mr. Godkulu's speech about what happened in the area as a son of the region, which is a constructive speech, which of course is no more natural than the opposition's criticism of the government. Yours...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0313par0209	It's insulting... it's insulting...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0312par0210	No, you have no patience.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0314par0211	It's a clean language.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0312par0212	Yours has turned out to be a public harassment, sir, which is way out of line. I didn't understand anything from Mr. Godkulu's ten-minute speech. That's not true. Dear friends, let me tell you that everything is to be discussed on this stand, not to be offensive, not to be insulting. While he is on this stand defending honor, those who listen there will defend the honor of the man on the stand. So no one's going to do this: He doesn't like the speech spoken on the stand, but he's not going to hit the table from there! That's a dirty move to get punched in there! I'd like to underline that. And lastly, you're in power, you're in peace. The opposition will criticize you whether you do it right or wrong. If you don't tolerate criticism, and you don't tolerate criticism... what more can I tell you if you can't stand this speech?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0315par0215	We don't tolerate rudeness!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0316par0216	Criticism is one thing, insult is another.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0312par0217	If you don't tolerate criticism, this Parliament won't work! This Parliament won't work! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0317par0220	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0318par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0317par0222	Mr. Turan, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0318par0223	Mr. President, I've just been asked to comment on the nature of the rude speech of the party's relevant speaker...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0319par0224	It's not the party! That party has a name! It's not called the relevant party!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0317par0226	Mr. Turan, on behalf of your group, Mr. Bostanci has responded.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0319par0227	It's rude to call an interested party! No, it's wrong. He's an experienced congressman. He'll know!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0320par0228	Mr. President, I'm not going to go into the context of the CHP MP's speech, which is not in accordance with the rules of courtesy, which is not in accordance with the Parliament's tone, but if you'll excuse me... The President immediately warns anyone who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0321par0230	I warned you, Mr. Turan, I warned you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0320par0231	You didn't warn me. I apologize. Please, let me finish. In addition to the article, the same person will be disciplined if he continues to speak rudely, despite warning. I expect this neutrality from your presidency, and I want you to return to our group and begin the discipline of the person who has the nerve to say, "Impudent!" Article 67, please.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0235	Mr. Turan, I warned the minister, I warned him, and after my warning, he corrected your oratoric language.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0323par0237	Get me the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0238	So Mr. Bostanci came out on behalf of your group and responded to him.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0324par0239	Let's remove this clause 67, Mr. President from the Civil Code!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0240	Mr. Turan, your statements have been filed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0324par0242	We're expecting a procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0243	Mr. Turan, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0324par0244	Then let's use each expression against the group!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0245	Dear friends...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0325par0246	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0322par0247	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0325par0248	I'm sorry, sir. I said this thing to the lawmakers who promised me rude words.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0326par0249	Let him speak from the stand, Mr. President, we don't understand, please, from the stand.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0327par0250	He said, "You're rude!"
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0325par0251	I really didn't say that to the AK PARTY group. I don't want anyone to take this the wrong way, but now speaking to the group's deputy president... Let me put it this way: I mean, I'm returning his word to him, and you didn't warn him, and I want you to warn him, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0328par0253	Mr. Godkulu, your statements have been filed. Thank you. Now, on the recommendation of the People's Democratic Party Group, the last speaker against you, Isparta MP Mr. Nuri Okutan. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0329par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate you and all of our beloved nation and all of the Islamic world's Mevlit Kandils, and salute everyone with respect and respect. The discussion of whether or not the motion has been submitted has allowed him to reassess a situation. As almost everyone knows, in order for the state to be mentioned in one place, the minimum of three conditions must be met. Whether it's a fascist state or a socialist state or a democratic state, you have to protect the citizens' lives and property within the borders of the country you declare sovereignty. Besides, you have to decide who's right and who's wrong, or there's anarchy; you have to distribute justice. Perhaps you should collect taxes in exchange for just doing these two services. The concept of a social state is then developed, education, health care and so on. To say "Development," the government has entered into its services, but each state must carry out its minimum three conditions: "Development." In order to become a powerful state, the nation must cling tightly to one another around its country and its values and maintain, maintain, survive, survive, contract. What did we do? On the one hand, we've covered these institutions, especially the Armed Forces. So we've established our judicial institution, especially our security units. Especially the members of the Armed Forces and the Carabinieri, who have been fighting terrorism, have been targeted by police officers. On the other hand, it's been torn apart by judgment, and instead of independent judgment, we've had a time when the law became political, instead of polarized. The terrorist organization has been legitimized. There was no confidence in the tradesmen in that region, in the lords, in the rangers, in the leaders of judgment. We've always seen security forces engaged in counterterrorism in the region, one by one. Moreover, our values that held us together were based on the concept of parents, integrity, honesty, family concept, the concept of the lawful, the concept of the state, the concept of the nation, the concept of the nation, which became underestimated. Dear lawmakers, partitioning the streets with the tender walls, digging channels can't be considered independent of foreign policy, foreign security. As a Shia circle is formed above our country, we are all living together in the formation of Kurdish autonomous regions that will act in the influence of sovereign states and in their territory, and act in accordance with the policy of the Kurdish autonomous zones, and this is the movement to surround Turkey. It is, in fact, an extension of the crusader mentality. We all know what Bush declared after 9/11. He declared that the Crusades had begun again. Now we're all living their tracks together. These issues are also done with the knowledge and support of our allies. Dear lawmakers, we need to know that Turkey is being tried to be surrounded in terms of external security. During our time, the Syrian part of the siege is being tried to complete. A new model of terror, supposedly city wars, has been moved to facilitate the work of those who have done the outside siege, to brake Turkey, and to take separatism to the next level. The work is conscious and is the product of external planning. The Separatist movement has made long preparations for this model. The National Movement Party predicts the future of these days, pointing to the present, asking for constant measures. Because of political footplay, the government has been unable to show political determination or pursue political rants. The people fell into the fire, while they waited for days of deception, peace, and tranquility, and the people were caught unprepared. What needs to be done: the PYD is doing ethnic cleansing in northern Syria, while the PKK is doing political cleansing in the region, creating an internal environment, forcing non-PKK citizens to emigrate, leaving the region completely to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and homogenizing the region and homogenizing it, almost Middle Easterning it. The government must prevent this migration. I need every precaution taken care of for that. Turkey has entered a new era of struggle. In domestic and external security, a new understanding is needed. Only inner peace is not enough; it is necessary to see the siege and to break the siege. If we don't corrupt the siege in Syria, our country will be sucked into a complete netherworld. Dear lawmakers, our external security has reached the highest risk since the day we entered NATO. We're dealing with Russia, Iran, Iraq, Syria. At the same time, the double set of Shia is drawn; the set of Shia is up ahead, and the Kurdish government is in front, and the West is in favor and support of the surrounding. To fail the model of city wars, new legal regulations must be made immediately. The needs of security forces must be considered. A new law must be passed for curfew. New regulations are needed for military use. Today, we use the Armed Forces as internal security units. They know that it actually has some loopholes, and it must be corrected and completed. The homeowners, tenants, citizens there, shopkeepers, employees, and all other victims who have been affected by the urban war model must be set up and run an emergency compensation fund, and their wounds must be covered. In fact, curfew is a silenced, watered-down incident. A description, building shelters, and a so-called struggle is being waged by reducing them to moats. This is a new situation. The second stage requires legal regulations before the new plane, otherwise we are doomed to face greater dangers. We're going through an extraordinary time. New legal regulations are needed in accordance with these conditions. They describe the situation we're in as urban warfare. We need legal arrangements for these things. The government must immediately abandon bilateral policies; first, it must reassure the security forces and reassure the people of that region. We left them alone yesterday, we left the area on the organisation's initiative, and now they have to believe that this will never happen again. As security forces fight terrorism in the region in a very risky manner, they must make sure there will be no more questions asked tomorrow, just like before. They need to be given proper training and their necessary equipment, ammunition and other shortcomings to be completed immediately. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, should have to focus on this important problem of Turkey and co-ordinate the institutions of our government, our President, our values, our institutions that make us who we are, our nation's values that I've just counted, and instead of focusing on the presidential system, daily, the presidential system, our citizens should have approaches to co-ordinate this important problem and co-ordinate the institutions of our civil society. With these feelings, I salute and salute all again, congratulating you on your lamp.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0330par0277	Thank you, Mr. Reader. Dear MPs, talks on the proposal of the People's Democratic Party Group have been completed.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0331par0279	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0330par0280	Now, I'm going to put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes. The decision has been asked to be sufficient. I'll call the number of decisions enough: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Now, let's move on to the next suggestion. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a consultation board meeting Tuesday (22/12/2015), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The adoption of the 11th, 3, 4, 6, and 7th amendments to the 1st, 2, 3, 4th and 5th place of the agenda, in order of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" before 48 hours of the meeting of the 11th and 6th and 7th rows, until the meeting of the General Assembly on Wednesday (December 24, 2015) on Thursday (December 24th, 2015) until the meeting of the Law Bill of Law until the completion of work leading up to the 4th Bill of Law. Meeting at 00 p.m. in today's merger, it is 24 p.m. at the top of the agreements, until the meeting of the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and the completion of the talks on the four-line Bill of Laws. If the daily programme cannot be completed at 00 p.m., it has been suggested that it continue its work until the completion of the daily programme, until the completion of the oral questions for an hour between 22 December and 29 December 2015 and 5, 12, 19 and 26 January 2016. The first speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is in favour of İstanbul MP Halis Dalkilic. Mr. Dalkülç, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0332par0297	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I hereby congratulate you on the blessed Mevlit Kandili, of the Islamic world. Congratulate the Mevlit Kandili, of all our nation, in the name of you valued lawmakers, and may it be a blessing. The Justice and Development Party has made a pledge on behalf of our group proposal. The meeting of Law Bills No. 11, 3, 4, 6, and 7 was completed on Wednesday (December 24, 2015), until after 48 hours of the meeting of Law Bills and Proposals of Laws and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions take turns 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The meeting of the General Assembly on Wednesday (December 23rd 2015) was completed on Thursday (December 24, 2015), and on Friday (December 24th 2015) until the meeting of the Court of Law until the end of Law until the end of the 4th Bill of Law until the end of Law until the end of the 4th Bill of Law. Meeting at 00, the agenda of that day's unification is 24 p.m. at the top of the agenda, until the meeting of other jobs from the Commissions and other jobs from the Commissions and the meeting of the work until the 4th Bill of Law is completed. 00, if the daily schedule cannot be completed, it has been suggested that the work be continued until the completion of the day-to-day programme; from 22 December and 29 December 2015 to 5, 12, 19 and 26 January 2016 to the completion of the talks on verbal questions for an hour. I say I'm in favor of the group's proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0333par0301	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. The second speaker is İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Bachelor, your time has been ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0334par0305	Mr. President, I congratulate you on your mission and wish you all the best. Dear MPs, I have been promised to explain CHP's views on the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute you all. Now, it's said that I don't go into the others... without waiting for forty or eight hours. This, my dear friends, is a violation of the Constitution and the Civil Law on the basis of the majority, using the power of the majority. That attitude is wrong, my dear friends. Most of them will, of course, make decisions, that's democracy, that's the Constitution, but there's no way out of the law based on the majority; you do it, you do it wrong. My dear friends, I've been listening to the debates at this General Assembly all morning. You can't really understand the insufferability of the Justice and Development Party, the ruling party group. My dear friends, you are the power, you run the state. You have to listen, you have to listen to even the worst. But it seems that you have not had the patience. See, a while ago, I wanted to visit the Speaker of the House, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, my citizen. I waited 12 days to make an appointment. Finally, the appointment arrived and I went to visit at the time. Another former congressman of ours was waiting there, he had a job, older than me, and I let him in before I did, and I let him in. As the meeting continued, another Justice and Development Party MP came in -- while I was sitting there -- came in without listening. It's been half an hour, my dear friends, waiting on my appointment time. We sent word in, and there's no answer again. Then, I told his secretary, "I'm going, Mr. President will reschedule if he wants to. It's been a week today, he hasn't made an appointment. My dear friends, if I could meet Mr. Ismail Kahraman, I would like to share with you here what I have to tell him. I was going to say, Mr. Hero, that I was going to call you Ismail Abi, that our law is sufficient to call you that -- you're a man who's seen it, you've been in this Parliament before. You know the tensions in Turkey, the costs paid as a whole nation in the past. Look, there's been a major polarization today that has never happened in the history of the Republic of Turkey. You, as Speaker, as such a wise person, act in such a way as to bring down this polarization. As a 60-year-old man, I realize that this polarization in Turkey is really driving us into a darkness, and I'm worried. Mr. President, I was going to say that there's something important you have to do about this, and I couldn't see him. I was going to say again, Mr. President, that this country is being discriminated against more than it's ever seen in the history of this country. It undermines the public conscience. I was going to say, "Don't, don't, don't, don't." This polarization, identity politics, it's pushing people away. Look, my dear friends, don't be angry, but I have something to say. Is there one in this country today, Governor, with the Flaming ID? Is there anyone we can call Alevi, judge and prosecutor? These are wrong, my dear friends. There is equal citizenship.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0335par0313	Very, very much.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0334par0314	No, no dear friends, I've asked you before. Look, I was going to say, Mr. President, that the law is underfoot again, that the courts have decided as much as they've never been seen in the history of the Republic; that's wrong. I was going to say that the independence of the judiciary is important, that justice will one day be needed for all of us, but I didn't. I was going to say to Mr. President: Mr. President, there is freedom of speech. The Qur'an is expressed by this word. The humanity of a man who can't pronounce it has been taken away from him. You're violating freedom of expression, violating freedom of the press. I was going to say, as an old, wise Speaker, you should warn your group about this, but I never got a chance to see them. I was going to say that journalists are being locked up for fulfilling our freedom of information, our right to information; you're not doing anything, it's wrong. You can do something about it, you're Brother, you're Parliament Speaker. You're not just the Speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group, you're the President of the entire Assembly. But unfortunately, I didn't. My dear friends, in your impatientness today, I also see pride, arrogance, and a great deal of pride. That's wrong too. This House, this country, has seen many capable men. I was going to say to the Speaker, Mr. President, to warn your friends about this, this arrogance is not good, this humility is necessary. Again, I was going to say, Mr. President, run the House. Look, Turkey can't be ruled today. You're saying two things, you're forcing the presidential system to lift these two heads. I was going to say that these are wrong. Start the coven. There are four party groups. You'd say common sense. You've all formed this Justice and Development Party with a common mind, and I'm a witness. Therefore, activate the common mind. Listen to parliament, parliament, parliamentarians, listen to groups, take the views of parties, listen to NGOs. Look, this offer you've made, we don't listen to anyone, we have a majority of us, we do what we know... lt's pride, arrogance, wrong, my dear friends. What we need is common sense. Listen to man, yes, listen to man; you have to listen, you're the government, you're the government. Again, I was going to say to Mr. President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, he is indeed breaking his neutrality, his oath. I don't think he's listening to anyone, but you're Ismail Abi of a time, you're an Ismail Abi of a time, go tell Mr. President: Mr. President, you're the President, you're the neutral President, you're above politics, you're in a position to reduce tensions, that suits you, that suits you, that suits you. It's not for you to talk every day in three, five speeches, to insult opposition parties like they're the leader of the ruling party or any other party, that's not true, Mr. President. But I couldn't do that; Mr. Speaker wouldn't give me an appointment, and he wouldn't meet me at his appointment. My dear friends, you can't run this country like this, as if the country can't be ruled. Of course you live in society, of course you go to election districts, you talk to people. Have you ever seen such tensions, polarization in society as it is today? Where are you going with this polarization? Of course, you have 49 per cent of the vote, of course, the majority of you, of course, the majority of the decisions in democracies, we have no objection to that, but management is in law, my dear friends, is in conscience. You may not like the law; you come in, you have the majority, you change it here. Mr. Group Vice President, based on the majority, it is wrong to discuss the law without waiting 48 hours. You know why 48 hours is left. Because what the lawmakers are offering, they're going to sit down and talk about it, they're going to argue about it, so they're going to form an opinion, and they're going to talk about it here. You're running away from them. You're doing it wrong, my dear friends. These days pass, this majority ends, this power ends. We've seen a lot of people walk around these arrogant council lobbys, but there's none of that, and you won't be tomorrow, my dear friends, remember that! I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0336par0325	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Now, in favor of the proposal, third speaker, Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you are, Mr. Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0337par0330	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As I begin my speech, I congratulate you on Mevlit Kandili. With our group proposal, we propose that income tax Act No. 11 from the Plan and Budget Commission and the draft of the Law shall be brought to the top of the agenda in the first place; again, the international agreements from the Foreign Commission, 3, 4, 6 and 7 rows, be placed at the top of the agenda in the 48 hours before the end of the day. Again, with our group proposal, we propose to run the General Assembly until tomorrow, December 23, 2015, Wednesday, the meeting of Bill 11 of Law is completed; and if it is not over, it is also 14. We propose that we open the General Assembly at 00, and run the General Assembly on Thursdays and Fridays. In addition, today -- time is not enough -- and we propose that we discuss verbal questions for an hour during the mergers Tuesday (December 29, 2015); 5, 12, 19, 26 January 2016. I await the support of the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0338par0337	Thank you, Mr. Can. Now, the last speaker against the proposal is Mr. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Ironel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0342	Mr. President, first of all, I wish you all the best in your new mission. I think your success in the struggle for women's freedom, your success in private, will dominate a more equitable, fair, righteous government in your new mission. That's why I congratulate you again and wish you success in your new mission. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to give you a speech that considers the situation that is now on the public's agenda as a hot issue, even though there is a situation on our agenda today. I will begin my statements as a living and seeing person, not listening or hearing in private. Yes, Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, how many people have died today, just today? In the time we're sitting here, in this time, perhaps, when I'm about to transfer, we'll be hearing about people who have lost their lives. As far as I know, we've expressed it before, there were statements about the situation that had been released in the press earlier, and then the real face came out with the media footage. With the massacre of two women in İstanbul and the death of two people living in Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, I'd like to give you a few examples of what happened in Nusaybin, in Dargegit, in Tyre, in Cizre, and in Silopi. Today, on the 21st day of Tyre, we are on the 21st day of the curfew. We want everyone to have an empathy. On the 21st day, the people of Diyarbakir wish to make a democratic press statement, while people are shot with guns, and children, women are slaughtered. Let me just say that for nine days... on the 9th day in Nusaybin, on the 12th day in Dargekit, on the 9th day in Silvio and Cizre on the 9th day... we can tell you one by one. At this moment, the funeral of Taybet Ana, who has not received their funerals, is waiting on the floor. At the moment, they are forced to move to three funeral mosques and try to freeze them in the ice. At present, 12 people's bodies have not yet been taken to the morgue; 12 funerals have been lying on the ground at the site and 12 funerals for nine days; many of them are women. What are we talking about in this country when women's funerals are on the ground? We're going to express what we're going to say in this country, what we've been through, what we've seen. We're sitting here watching the tanks, the cannons, the helicopters dropping bombs on people. Today, however, Parliament had to make a decision, and he had to go there and see what was happening there and talk to the people there and make a decision together. With curfews, slaughtering people won't solve this problem. The women are resisting, and he will continue to resist. The 81-year-old mother was slaughtered, the 30-year-old present slaughtered. Again, the funeral of Taybet (Tyabet) and the funeral of Ayþe (Aisha) are still on the streets. Now, what are we going to talk about in this country? What we're talking about in this country is what happens next to us. There's still a government in this country that doesn't admit to a coup. At the moment, convoys of tanks and cannons, armored vehicles, are passing from Urbana to Mardin, Diyarbakır, Şırnak. Where do we live? We live in Turkey. Who's being slaughtered?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0340par0350	Kurdistan Workers' Party
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0351	Citizens living in this country are being slaughtered.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0341par0352	PKK, PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0353	We're gonna have to pay for all of this. We'll take care of everything that's happened.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0341par0354	Ask the PKK!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0355	Our female friend, who was shot in the head with a gas bomb in Diyarbakır, has been beheaded. Their lives are at stake.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0342par0356	Don't shout, why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0357	There is an understanding that makes the country a living hell, a coup, a civil war. If we're not going to talk about it here, on the floor, on the stand, if we're not going to say it here, where are we going to say it? We say the solution to the problem is to see the will of the people. Yes, you have to see the people who live there, see what they're going through. In Cizre, the homes fell on their heads and two children died. At this time, the wounded cannot be taken to the hospital. At the moment, the municipality is occupied by hospitals and schools in Cizre; the police, soldiers, are occupied there. At this time, soldiers and police have entered people's homes and turned their homes into headquarters. There's an understanding that's forcing people out of the house, making announcements and taking them out. Now I'd like to address the government one more time. So, yes, the government signed a date in 2015. The government, proud of its history, signed another date in 2015. For a thousand three hundred and seventy-seven years, that prayer at the Holy Mosque of Diyarbakir... This Friday, last Friday, the Grand Mosque was not prayed. This will hold its place in the history pages as a date.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0343par0359	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0360	This will be paid, that's very clear.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0344par0361	Tell the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0339par0362	We make it very clear that he himself will perform the Friday prayers in Cizre. Those who say "I will pray" did not allow prayers in the Holy Mosque. On the 21st day, curfews have been imposed in Diyarbakır Sur. On the people, the tanks, the cannons, the houses are destroyed. Where was this seen? This was seen in Turkey and seen during the AKP administration in 2015. This will go down in history; it will go down in history very clearly. Yeah, it's the anniversary of the Maras massacre. We honor those who lost their lives there. Alevis, those who expressed their thoughts with freedom of thought, those who expressed their freedom of faith were slaughtered there. Yes, it developed 37 years ago, but today, the same government of coups has opened fire on its people and slaughtered its people in Sur. A total of nine days, 12 people have lost their lives and eight have died in nine days. People are dying out there today as we speak. Every day women, children... Once again, the woman who's eight months pregnant has a gunshot wound to her child. So do these... we've seen it with our eyes, we're telling what we've seen and what we've been through. Let's go with you, see for ourselves what happened. The elected deputies in this country... if people get bombed, shot, gas bombs, tanks, cannons... no one can accept that. That was supposed to be our agenda today, and all lawmakers had to act on this responsibility and come up with a solution. Yes, our people are resisting, we are expressing once again that we are on the side of our people's resistance. Our people are resisting, saying that we are tired of torture, slaughter, arrest every day, and that we are living it, and the Kurdish people resist as a whole, and they will continue to resist. We are with our people -- the living -- with them; more than half of our MPs are in Mardin, Diyarbakır, and Şırnak. We will be with our people, and we will bring them to the agenda of the House, one by one, together with our people, and we will stand, and we will stand, and we will win, and we will win, and we will win as one! Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0345par0369	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Dear lawmakers, talks on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group have been completed. Now, I will submit the proposal to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0346par0373	Mr. President, may I have my word?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0345par0374	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0346par0377	Mr. President, thank you. He made an unfortunate claim under this roof, in the form of the government, which had just been launched into business by the precious orator who had just spoken. It's obvious how the government came to work, the processes are there. Of course, it's important how you make sense of the public. If the people go to the polls and vote and choose political will by this method, the people are the perpetrators in the democratic process, but if you mean other elements, small groups, then you're making a different assessment. The establishment of the EC PARTY government was by the will of the public after the November 1st elections. To see, observe, witness the events of the east... Yes, our eyes can look, but if the ideology has those misty glasses between our eyes and things, it's complicated what we see, ideology tells us a different story. In the east, the PKK is the biggest problem for Kurds, the biggest danger, the greatest threat is reality. Today, the main obstacle to the solution of the Kurdish issue is PKK's terrorism, as well as peace in Turkey. If we want peace and resolution, if we demand a Turkey based on democracy and freedom through the usual political processes, we need to get involved in terrorism first. The events of the east... Who threw rocket launchers at hospitals? Who's the kidnapper of the ambulances, who's shooting at the civilian population? All of these and countless examples point to the members of an armed terrorist organization behind the trenches here. Look, there's been an incident in Diyarbakir. One of the Presidents of Peoples' Democratic Party was bombed out of the air. He said, "The other was hit by a tank from the land." I don't think there's any connection between them, either, as far as this propaganda thing is concerned. Indeed, we care about these democratic processes, the role of the People's Democratic Party to play in the solution of Turkey's important Kurdish problem. This role is certainly to stand up to terrorism and support democratic processes. The peace of Turkey and what we expect, not only for Turkey, but for the peace of the region, is to be fair, to be righteous, to stand up against terrorism, to strive for the peace of Kurds, Turks, everyone. I express it as a sincere wish. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0347par0384	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Baluken has a demand for words. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0348par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, every member of parliament on the stand has thought about it 10 times, and then he's saying it, and I'd like to say it first. We're behind every sentence we've ever used from that podium. This is the government of the government of the government, and I just explained why we called it the government of the government of the government. If the results of democratic elections are not recognised in one country, if the coalition talks with the will of the people in that country are being interfered; if the task of forming the government of the second political party, which received the most votes, within a constitutional period, although it remains a week, is not given; if a Parliament is going to run again without a single commission, then there is a clear blow if the General Assembly can't come together two days in a row after the election and produce a study. And it's the palace, and it's the AKP, which he's instructed to do. The law and the Constitution, unfortunately, has been completely rescinded after the June 7th elections. And right now, that coup is going on the same way. What is the legal reason for 21 days of curfew in a city? We're asking them to come out and explain. There are three ministers here... with what law will the curfews be declared, including the Constitution's right to live, right to travel, right to education, right to health care, and all basic rights and freedoms? I also stated at the beginning of the session that curfew has now become a curfew and curfew. People are being slaughtered by snipers because they went to the window. People are forced from their homes and taken to closed gyms and imprisoned there. If they don't believe us, let them look at the statements made today by the HUDA PARK. HEDA PARK says its members' homes were forced to be seized by soldiers and used as a front. The deputy leader of the AKP has been thrown into the hospital, and this one has been thrown there. He can't save the situation. Doesn't he know that Cizre State Hospital is now being used as headquarters? Look, I'll show you a few pictures, and this is what's available in Cleopatra right now, look: the teachers at the school where the students are supposed to be, the next generation will be your work. This is the picture behind the banner, behind the painting called the picture. This is an open practice of fascism that exceeds even the era of impact, beyond even martial law. So an understanding that leaves funerals to rot in the street, that doesn't allow the burials they slaughter there for days, that doesn't even abide by the law of their war, deserves far more political criticism than the coup d'état. We know what we're saying, and from now on, we'll continue to say what we need to say about it, from the podium to the entire Turkish public. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0349par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0350par0395	Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0349par0396	The AKP deputy group's deputy told us that their statements regarding the Leading Mosque, which our co-chairs express in private, are not aware of each other. I want a say in his relationship with that teaser.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0350par0397	Mr. Ironel, please. According to 69, I promise you two minutes. Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0349par0401	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, yes, I say as someone who went and saw the Bullet Mosque after the curfew was lifted: yes, they were thrown out of the sky by helicopters and started burning as soon as it fell to the ground. We're just saying that because we can see it with our own eyes, that's one. Second: With both the bombing from the air and the land tanks, the cannons, the scorpions, the armored vehicles firing from there, all the friends who came there could see the profile of a Leaded Mosque very clearly. At that time...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0351par0403	The PKK is doing it!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0349par0404	Yes, I'm speaking as a witness who saw that period in person, saw how the burning material was thrown out of the helicopter. And I'm also saying that as a direct witness to the writing of the esedullah team there. Who's the esedullah team? If he did, why hasn't this government answered yet? In the past nine days, 12 of our citizens have been unable to be taken to the hospital, and the bodies are not taken to the Silopi State Hospital. So what kind of freedom of faith can you talk about here, what kind of democracy, freedom? Houses are occupied, schools are occupied.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0352par0405	The government doesn't invade!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0349par0406	Right now, our city of Silopi is under siege. You all know that very well. The police have taken over the city. I'll make it very clear: schools, hospitals, houses... let's go to the silopi, see together; the people's houses have been seized, they have been taken out, they've kept them waiting outside, go, go. They say, go. They say, they put them under the bullets or... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're in the house, they're taking all their stuff, they're holding them hostage. Is that your understanding? OSMAN LOVE Look, you've lied a lot.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit03spe0353par0410	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0353par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, we're moving on to the part of the agenda with oral questions. Members of parliament, as I have stated in the section of the hearings, I will call the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Buli Yıldırım to the stand to answer the verbal question motions that Mr. Bülli Yıldırım wanted to answer together. Members of parliament, due to the political party groups' agreement, the reading of the motions will not be carried out for more efficient use of the time set for the question-answer process. The motions are printed in a full text journal. In addition, the list containing the summary information of the preambled question proposals to be answered has been distributed to groups. I'll make a promise to the Minister now. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today, the blessed Mevlit Kandili, at the beginning of my words, congratulate you and our nation's lamps. The first question I'm going to answer today is the question of public employment, which Mr. Ali Ercoshkun put to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (6/11). Between 2002 and 15 years, the rate of increase in public personnel is 30.34%. In other words, the number of public staff employed is 3 million 339,86. The number of women working in the public is approximately 37 per cent. The number of employees in public institutions is 63,207. However, there are gaps in some majors, since there are not enough demands, such as teachers, religious officials, medical staff. Between 2002 and 15 years, the disabled employee's name increased by 604 per cent. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/53) is asked in the main question motion of Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/53) for the non-national share of the telecommunications sector. Dear lawmakers, our investments in transport and telecommunications have been favourable to the economy every year, over the past decade. Our exports have tripled, our total trade has increased to over 400 billion, and our transportation and communications infrastructure has been significantly improved accordingly. As a result, the transport and communication share in non-employment revenues -- domestic product -- has increased from 11 per cent to 15.6 per cent. This shows that with our country's growth, the growth in transportation and communication, even the growth in communication, is slightly higher than the country's overall growth rate. Transport and communication are a requirement for a country's development, growth, increased quality of life, facilitating its life. So in this sense, in the divided ways that we've done all over the country, we've joined the east and the west and the south, we've divided the roads, we've united the lives. On the other hand, we've made the airway public. About 15 million of our citizens met on a plane for the first time. Now that our citizens from all over the world are getting on a plane, they're using the airway. Thus, the airway was no longer a privilege, but it became a need. Dear lawmakers, another question is, again, the question of our Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun....the length of the land road is related to the length of the network. The road length of our network has reached 66,244 kilometers as of today, but the entire length of the road in Turkey is over 420,000 km. What's wrong with that? There are village roads, city roads, woods, roads. It's 420,000 kilometers when we include all roads outside the network of their roads. An important development on the roads is the sathi coating-hot asphalt balance. The amount of sathi plating before 2003 was about 50,000 miles [50,000 km] of sathi covering, while today the amount of sathi coating was reduced to 43,000, and the amount of hot mixture increased to 19,300 km. What does that mean? It means that the quality of our roads is increasing, that travel on roads becomes more comfortable, that it becomes safer, that the country gains from time and fuel savings. There are three concrete examples of this, one: traffic on the roads has tripled over the past 12 years. The amount of motor vehicle went from 8.5 million to 20 million. Accidents on the road have also increased by three times, but fatal accidents have decreased by 63 percent. Since the standard of roads has been improved, the road defect in accidents is now completely in the back row, and the first and foremost cause of accidents is still a human error. Thus, the way to bring accidents further down from now on is through the awareness and training of our people, our drivers. This will be the result of a social mobilization. I'm running out of time. Mr. Erkan Akdemir, our Istanbul MP, is a question motion for Mr. Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, and it belongs to his routes of connection. As you can see when you go to Istanbul, it has the widest open bridge in the world. It has four routes, four roads of arrival, and two train lines, and the highest tower ownership in the world is largely complete. The bridge's installation is at 95 per cent, the main cable assembly has exceeded 97 per cent. Generality has reached 88 per cent. It's not just the bridge, it's 150 kilometers of access roads around it. In this case, in the first half of 2016, our bridge will likely start serving in April, May. (AK PARTI) With this bridge and its connecting routes in Istanbul, heavy traffic will be transferred to the bridge in the north, and therefore the first bridge in Istanbul, the second bridge, will be assigned to smaller vehicles, and the traffic jam will be a little bit more relaxed in a sense. Of course, the continuation of the bridge, the North Marmara Highway, will be held with a do-and-do model in the next March, which will be connected to the bridge in the direction of Chile from one end to the other, and between the Kinalı and Yassuören on the other side. Another question, 6/56, is the main question of Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. And that's another question about land transport. I don't read the questions properly, due to time savings. In fact, the question is, what changes are there in land transport? He had no laws to carry the road, he was bound by legislation. The transports are connected to the documentation system. There was only transportation, subgroups of transportation identified. The subgroups of logistics, international transports, inland transports, interstate transports, etc. have been identified as subgroups of more than 35. The number of vehicles registered in traffic -- I just told you -- 19 million 793,95. Half of this is automobile, and the other is other species, so I don't want to go into detail. This system also prevents overloads in road controls, preventing both traffic accidents and roads from being destroyed sooner. In addition, this problem, which is both unsustainable and a great burden for drivers, has been eliminated, especially by pulling cars over 22 years old and older, has been made substantial financial contributions to the rightful owners. (6/57) The main question of Mr. Ali Ercoshkun is also related to the vehicles being withdrawn from the market. I've already answered that. Another question now, Mr. Erkan Akdemir (6/58) is the main question of fast train lines and railway construction. In 2003, we had 10,984 kilometers of railways in our country, but since 1950, these railways have not been focused as much as necessary and have not been renovated, and the new lines have not been made properly. Most of the 10,000km of the railway road that we have left from the Ottomans to our time is 4,000km, and 7,000km above it are the railways that Ataturk had personally started in the early years of our republic. This neglect of the railways has grown to great size, becoming unsustainable in the railways. When we came on duty, we made some very important decisions about the railroads. One of these decisions is a roller coaster. We've activated the fast train, which has been spoken for years, which our country yearns for. The goal was to connect the capitals of three civilizations, Seljuklu, Ottomans, and modern Turkish Republic of Turkey with one another by fast train. So first we started Ankara-Istanbul, then Ankara-Konya-Istanbul and now there are millions of fast trains running, and I'm just talking about Ankara-Konya, 7.5 million people traveling by iron. The number in Eskişehir is much more than that. Adeta, these cities are united. People who live in Eskişehir have studied in Ankara, or live in Ankara, and work in Eskişehir. Thus, the movement between cities has increased and our citizens' lives have become easier. The other important thing we've done is that there's a lot of things in the railways, but I'm not going to go into detail with the time tightness -- we've put a lot of weight on the signaling work. Our railway lines were very low on signaling, very low on electricity. So there were diesel sets, no signal systems. This was a major obstacle to efficient business. As of now, we have reached 3,748 in the electricity and 4.412 in the signal. I can tell you from here that we have more ways to go. And that's where I'm stopping for now to answer different questions. The oral question of Mr. Erkan Akdemir is also related to the crossings. The gate of the hemzee... has now reached 1,068, with 447 controlled crossings in 2003. The total gate now is 4,810, and that's 3,110 of what we've done. Our next goal will be to ensure controlled transitions wherever possible. Another question is about aviation. Again, the question of Erkan Akdemir (6/50) is... Mr. Minister, the deputy's last name is not Akdemir. It's Mr. Kandemir. AUDIENCE, AUDIENCE AND AUDIENCE I'm sorry, I'm fixing it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0354par0056	So you did that, too. It's my fault, I'm correcting it, Erkan Kandemir. And thank you for your attention, Mr. President. That's great. Thank you very much. It won't be the same after this, so... (sing) I'm sorry (sing) (sing) I'm sorry (sing) (sing) I'm sorry (sing) (sing) I'm sorry (sing) (sing) I'm sorry (sing) (sing) I'm sorry (sing) Thirteen years ago there were 34 million total transports related to the airway in Turkey, there were now 180 million; there were 26 open airports; there were now 55 airports; there were 65 thousand employees, up to 170 thousand. So I want you to make a comparison: there are as many people working at Ataturk Airport today as there are in all the aviation in 2003, only in one airport. Change has been more than three times the growth of the world's aviation. Growth in Turkey's aviation has never fallen below 10 per cent and has usually been at 14-15 per cent. And while that was going on, using the do-and-do model, we've activated a lot of our new airports. There's Antalya, there's Izmir, there's Istanbul, there's Dalaman, there's Milas, there's Victory Airport, and there's also new terminals, new aprons and new runways in many of our provinces, with general budget opportunities. We've got new airports on the agenda right now. We'll be sharing them with you, with our people, in time. Another question for Mr. Erkan Kandemir is about the reflection of the UTV exemption provided in shipping. And I'm going to make a brief point here. There have been 61 per cent increase in the number of passengers moving in the cabotage line, with the price of fuel, the number of vehicles has increased by 95 per cent, and the transport of cargo has increased by 74 per cent. An estimated 3.5 billion sources were transferred to the sector by the application of non-OTV fuel. It's a separate question for fishermen. Fishermen were also given about 1 million tons of fuel, and in exchange, the industry received a financial support of 1 billion 333 million. When we add them up, the figure reaches about 5 billion. In the meantime, 45 fishing shelters will be built, and in the coming period all the places needed will be built. The question of Mr. Erkan Kandemir (6/49) is also asked to carry a cargo of ports. The increase in cargo transport in our ports from 2003 to 2014 is as follows: total foreign transport has reached 283 million tonnes, thus increasing 90 per cent. The monetary value of our country's sea route in foreign trade rose from 57 billion dollars to $228 billion at the end of 2014. It's a very dramatic rise. Another rising rate is cruiser transport. The cruiser transport has also increased 56 per cent, and the number of passengers from our 12 ports has reached 1,800,000. Yeah, we're also passing the naval sector. There's more to it than that. Of course, there's a shortage of time. Let's get to the questions of our other opposition parties. Listen carefully, it's your turn. Congressman Haluk Pekşen... you know the question, don't you? One way, Beylikdü-Iskender-Tonia Road.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0355par0072	Let's fix the cradle, Minister. Is it the cradle? We're getting mixed up today. Cradle, check.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0356par0074	Beylikdüzü is in Istanbul. We fixed the crib. We own the company, anyway. The total length of the road is 25 kilometers. In his first tender -- we did it at 3/2007 -- he won the Atabey Common Initiative. Later, of course, the land there is a difficult land, there are many aways, there are too many nationalizations. You're talking about the reasons the road is essentially delayed. There are three main reasons. One is that publicization, courts take too long, and there are no publicizations. There's still a lot of publicization issues going on. The other thing is that he has to work under traffic. The traffic is also running and the road is being built, and there's a time when he lost it. There's another issue, there's holes, there's power lines, there's water lines, there's various other institutions. Transferring them, clearing the road is a serious problem. In 15/05/2012, then re-trialed, and this time the Power and Askal Joint Initiative has received the tender, and the work continues. So far, a total of about six miles [9 km] has been opened to traffic as sathi plating, and construction continues in four and seven kilometers with no problem with publicisation. For 31/12/2017, the date of the work, the term of the contract, the effort must be made during that period. Another question is about the port of Tripoli. As it is known, the port of Tripoli was transferred to the private sector for 30 years in 2003. When it was run by the state, the total cargo carried in the port of Tripoli was 997 thousand tons a year, and the amount of cargo carried in one year increased to 2,824,000. Again, the container grope increased from 1,046 in 2002 to 45,000 in 2012, and from the first day it went into the private sector, $35m in new investments have been increased from 3.9 million to 10 million tonnes. This port, as it is known, has been heavily used in the shipment to Afghanistan, and has served as a transfer center for all the loads during the withdrawal of the NATO side from Afghanistan. The port business continues its work on various foreign transfers, transit transports. It is said that the talks with Kazakhstan continue and the principle agreement is reached. The fact that a port is a transit port doesn't depend on the fact that the harbor is very good by itself. It depends on your background, your proximity to the markets, your infrastructure. Therefore, it also depends closely on our country's strategies for other countries. Another question, Mr. Haluk Pekşen. This is also about the Yomra-Ruzdil way. The Yomra-Özdil road, its first tender, the TERYAP-Mehmet Patir joint venture, was given as a production and improvement, and the 8km part was completed and opened to traffic at sathi plating level. However, the road was not finished, and then there was a tender for the other part, which is now in KİK. The Ministry is making the tender, making a decision, objecting to the participants, going to the CIC. If it is resolved, it is resolved, and if it is not resolved, it is brought to justice. Thus, the legal process continues, and when this process is completed, the work will begin and the work will be done quickly. Again, the delays here also apply to what I've just mentioned. The questions of Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı (Iconian MP) are: The Iconian Environment Road Project. Mustafa Bey knows about the Iconian Environment Road Project. In a section related to the cone environment, the construction of 25 kilometers of the 122km section continues. Since this is a large volume of global pencils, in the year 2016, all will be offered as a separate, separate project. There are six tunnels on the road, 14 viaducts. Work has begun in the non-governmental sector, and work has been launched in other parts to ensure that the implementation of DOP and KOP is more economically implemented. Again, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı (6/90)'s motion for questions is related to vehicle inspection stations. There is only one in Konya. The study has been launched to open the second one and has been agreed with the company needed to be fully operational in 2016, or it will end in 2016. These, of course, are determined by the needs. This vehicle has been fully liberalised since 2008. There are 313 stations throughout the country. There used to be -- these tests -- there were seals in the offices, they were coming, traffic brokers, bunches of them, marking them, sealing them and giving them to them, but now in the new system, they're going through very detailed examinations from needle to thread. Here's what we understand: 40 percent of the vehicles entering the examination can't pass in the first examination, it's always repeated within a month. 40 million vehicles have been examined so far. With this system, the public has been given 4 billion, 300 million resources so far, and 3,500 jobs have been provided and jobs have been found for our citizens. The average annual examination is 8.5 million. Again, the question of our Democratic MP Mustafa Kalaycı, is: "On the eve of the election, there will be a regional airport for the Minister of Energy of the period Ali Riza Alaboyun." There is no need for a new airport of Konya. Are you still keeping your promise? Yes, I am keeping it, and there is an airport of Konya, and it works very well. The increase in capacities has been increased to 25,000 by making new terminals, and there is a need for growth. What Ali Reza is talking about is a little different. I've spoken to him, and what he said is that the ministry continues to work for a regional airport where Eregli, Niğde, Aksaray and Karapınar could benefit. Therefore, Karaman has a plan for an airport, which will serve Eregli, because it is very close to Ereğli, 60 kilometers; it is at 135 kilometers [35 km] to Konya, and it is not possible to serve Konya. Other than that, Niğde, our Ministry for the needs of Aksaray (Aksaray) continues its work. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı (6/99)'s main oral question motion is about the subways of Konya. As it is known, a total of 45km of rails were decided to be carried out by our Ministry in the early months of this year by the Council of Ministers. This line consists of two parts: one will be performed between Selçuk University-Behhekim and the high-speed train station; the other will be between the University of Necmettin Erbakan-Gar-Feteh Street-Meram. The virtue of the job is that in 2015, a project contract was held. The short list of tenders made with preliminary competency was set on November 30th. The technical assessment is under way and financial offers will be opened and the project tender will be finalised. After the project tender, of course, it will be offered to the Ministry of Development for production, and the production will be moved on. The need will start with whatever line is needed more according to the demand situation, and then the next line will come on the other line. Another question for Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı is related to the Conium Rock Logistics Centre. There's been a tender in the logistical center business, but since the real need situation has changed, this tender has been decided to be repeated. New needs are also due to: There are some infrastructure projects that extend to the region. To achieve integration with these infrastructure projects, the logistical center's size and possibilities have been revised. Logistics is now the favorite part of future transportation. It is not a logistical transport; it is an integrated infrastructure such as storage, groping, customs, packaging, combined transport, insurance management, stock management, inspection, customer services, banking, postal services. We have at least 20 logistical centers for the Ministry of Transport to be built within the next five years to integrate our ports, our railways, our land roads. So far, six railway logistic centers and one land road logistical centers have been completed, and the work continues for the other. Mr. Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen (6/97) is the main question of whether or not to board a plane with a gun according to the rules of civil aviation. In this sense, it is particularly clear that the ministers' bodyguards boarded the plane with a gun, which is against the rules and poses a danger. There's a regulation in the National Civil Aviation Security Programme. In this regulation, if escorting senior government officials are allowed to board the plane with a gun, who will allow it? Captain. If the captain doesn't get in, he can't. It's a rule. ..ask for a general or special deployment order. The seating numbers they sit in are reported to the captain. In fact, after considering that question, I decided that this judgment should be reviewed a little bit, and friends are doing a study. So what can be done in a limited capacity to ride a gun? As soon as the weapon is loaded, it's delivered, kept indoors, locked, delivered back to itself as it lands. I mean, sitting on it could cause some problems. Our friends are working on a change of regulations on this. Our final question, Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer (6/110), is whether the building of cell towers, especially in the playgrounds, is harmful to health. And sometimes they decorate these cell towers, make them look like trees, and they ask why. Now, the issue of whether these cell towers have been harmful to health has been a topic that has been discussed worldwide for many years, but so far there is no evidence that they are physically unhealthy, but an international rule has been developed to eliminate all these discussions. That, and the rule is that the nearest building on the horizontal plane of the base station to be built by is 40 volts per meter, so the electromagnetic wave won't vibrate on it. What's this for? That's for the distance between the locals and the cell tower. We don't recommend that this is under 20 meters, we don't allow that. But what we need to understand here is that if there's anyone within 20 meters of where that electromagnetic wave receiver is going with a horizontal line at the top of the station, it's not allowed to be built as a precaution. But we did something else, where there's 40 volts per meter apps all over the world, and we're doing 10 volts per meter, so we're doing it at a four times safer border. It was asked, "How many cell towers are there in Istanbul?" We have 27.110 cell towers. The camouflage of these base stations is not related to the damage, but the municipalities do such work here for visual purposes, otherwise it is not a matter of concealing the damage. I'll buy it. There's one question missing. They said, but I don't know, page 29... Mr. President, if you'd like me to answer that, there are no more questions. A question by Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/54) about TURKSAT is related to satellite design work, domestic aircraft and aviation activities in space. Clearly, it has enough satellite capacity and serves with the most advanced satellites. The last two Turkish satellites were sent into orbits of 5A-5B, and are currently working with TÜBITAK on making national satellites for Turkish satellite 6A. In 2019, we'll be sending our own engineer, our own mind, our sweat satellite into orbit. There is a work going on between the Defense Industry Undersecretary, the STM Corporation and our Ministry of Regional domestic aircraft work. In the coming months, we will have an opportunity to share concrete developments in this regard. Thank you all for listening to me patiently. I wish you all the best luck in our new term of work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0357par0101	Mr. Secretary, your time is not up, but if you'd like to take your seat, I'd like to give my word to the members of parliament who have questions. First word, Mr. Pekshen. Here, you can explain your position.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0358par0104	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, Mr. Secretary's statements, in fact, have never satisfied me. I appreciate your kindness, of course, but I'm very happy about what he said about aviation, because I'm going to say this as a lawyer who's given Turkey 20 years to aviation investment, and a great deal of aviation work. Mr. Secretary, I'm curious, of course, if it's in his memory, if he remembers, is there anyone who has signed the license of any airline that flies in Turkey today? During his time, during the Minister's time, does he remember the name of any airline that flew? That's one. Second: Mr. Secretary has stated that they have made serious aviation investments. I'm asking you again, Mr. Secretary, are these investments made from any source of income other than Eurocontrol revenues? Have you had any activity to increase Eurocontrol revenues? But I do remember a signature by a former minister, a group of vice presidents sitting here, and I thank him on behalf of Turkey, and I remember a number of procedures that were done in that direction. We've been involved in these missions. Yes, I'd like to thank you for considering the change in regulations regarding the gun boarding of aircraft. We're the only ones in the world who have a code against ICAO rules, and I'm very happy that you're going to review that, Mr. Secretary. Another is about my hometown, Tripoli. Yes, the port's capacity has been increased, and I wish it hadn't been increased because coal dust has arrived there, and people are currently struggling with cancer in Tripoli, which is a different problem, but the question I was asking was, Minister: Why did it end up carrying a container or land load to Iran after your Ministry in 2006? Why isn't he carrying any trucks? That's one. Two: why can't the port be breached by ships of great capacity? The depth of that port is 10,25 metres; naturally the international transport ships cannot enter that port because of it. And even though this was in your Ministry's information, why has no measure been taken so far? I'd like you to explain that, Mr. Secretary. In other words, I'd appreciate it, Mr. Minister, if you'd like to state that you're a member of parliament who's been following you very carefully: I've seen your statement about the Silk Road Railroad Project, and it's a statement about your party doing it, which I'm surprised to hear. It was presented by me at the Turkish Exporters' Assembly in 1996, which was adopted by then Prime Minister Tansu Ciller in 1997. You've had your chance to practice. I hope Turkey will have the chance to end it in your time of power. It's a project I care about a lot, and I want to thank you in that sense. Yes, and your explanation of the Cradle-Iskender road, Mr. Secretary, was a bit of a shock to us, unfortunately, because your statement in this first tender on the Cradle Road was that we would finish this road in four hundred days. It's been four hundred days, not nine years, and now you've added another three years, four hundred days, twelve years. To be honest, the answer did not satisfy the hope that the road would be completed in a very serious way. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you one more question about your own statement: Erzincan-Trabzon's fast-track: this is not logical, this is not smart. Such a road could not be built during my Ministry. The Erzincan-Trabzon fast-track project. Mr. Minister, during the election period, especially during June 7th and November 1st, your party widely introduced Erzincan-Trabzon's fast-track project to the public and described it as a state project. I followed him, didn't see him in any investment plans. Now you're Secretary again. Do you again, during your Ministry, feel what your party promised in the election? There are more questions, but I don't want to take up too much of your time. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0359par0115	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. Mr. Gürer, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0360par0117	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his statements. The problem with these cell towers continues as a problem that happens in courts or on sites or on places where people count applications. I think there should be a scientific study about this. For example, the public spotlight method requires that the public be informed on this issue. If there's any problem here, if there's no problem, I think the reflections of this should be passed on to the public, but if there's a problem, it needs to be known by the public. 27.130 was stated only in Istanbul. Most of them are mobile in the children's playgrounds, and some of them are mobile in that neighborhood, because they don't allow it on that street, and then they leave. Where there's technology and the phones we use have a necessity for cell towers, especially in its presence, but I think it should be true that they're reflected in society, and I think it's a question of whether all of these cell towers are in the same status or the same configuration. I believe in the importance of the Ministry's work on what's available in that sense. Because I know that the city's blue desk, the white desk, is full of complaints about it, and in most places, as I said, it's causing a major problem among citizens. The other opposes what one allows. These cell towers are all about our lives. It doesn't have a political party, human life is important. I believe it is necessary to perform a study in this context. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0361par0121	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Tin Man...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0362par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your information. Some of my questions haven't been answered, and I want to remind them. You said the tender for logistical center construction was canceled, but you never gave me any information about when it's going back up, when it's going up, when it's going to open. You know many of the other logistical centers have been completed, but no distance has been made from the logistical center in Iconium. And you remember, Mr. Minister, in 2012, our current Prime Minister promised you, even when I asked you again in the General Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, he said, "Look, you didn't say do it." You said, "Look." You're still looking at your answers, I understand him. It's just a partial location, you gave him his information, 25km, but there's still a process of publicisation in the major section, which is the main problem for the Iconia. When will this speed up, when will it end? In other words, you also know that you have received a huge response from the Konyaites, and that the Coniah does not need a new airport, and that I maintain my view. The airport, you know, military airport in Iconium. I'm afraid there's trouble because there's no permit for new investments in many matters. Iconium really needs a civilian airport. Either the military's moving out of there or they need a civilian airport somewhere else. I'm going to pass this on to our Konya. On the eve of November 1st elections, Minister Ali Reza Alaboyun Bey said that he was a regional airport for Ereglı. He had announced to Ereğli, but it was understood that it was said to get the votes of Ereğli. That's what you'll do to Karaman in your statement. There's also a missing answer: This subway project, you know, was made intensively in Iconia before June 7th. I asked, "There's no project, no program, no investment programme, but your Ministry has run an intensive advertising campaign, on billboards, televisions, newspapers. My question was, how much did you spend on advertising? You didn't give me any information about that. We're going to propose to the 2016 Investment Program. You said, "We're pleased with this. We're pleased as members of the National Movement Party. Hopefully, he'll get into the investment program because the Prime Minister has a say in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0363par0131	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to invite you back to the stand. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, there's been a need for further explanations about the questions, and I'll try to answer them in writing if there are things I'm not talking about here. Mr. Peksen has questions, especially about civilian aviation. In civilian aviation, the whole world is jealous of the development in Turkey, so no one in the world has moved from 8 million to 85 million passengers on the domestic lines. Growth is less than 5%, Turkey is 15 per cent in a row. 8,000 pilots are working while 2,000 pilots are working. Twenty-six airports are open, and 55 airports are now serving. Turkey is the first country in Europe to build an airport in the middle of the sea. (AK PARTY) The airline has been a public road in Turkey, no matter which airline I signed or didn't sign, we signed the airline by making the public's way. (EC PARTY) That's why Europe will be the vice president of Turkey in ECAC, and next year Turkey will be the first member of the council in the history of the ICAO. These are the titles he deserves, not because he's interested in Turkey's eyebrow, but because he's an aeronautic authority, where he deserves, I'd like to point out. Now, on the other hand, about the port of Tripoli, of course, the private sector is doing its best to run the port most efficiently. After we privatize a port, if we try to invest in it as a public, I don't think it's the right job, we can't use public resources there. We do everything we can to support their demands, to open them up, and we did, and already the amount of weight that's being groped there shows the result. The amount of cargo is under 1 million -- here, 3 million, there are numbers -- has reached 3 million tons. The capacity has increased from 3.9 million to 10 million tons. I mean, the harbor has become a serious burden handler. Couldn't it be better? Of course, there's no doubt about it, but from now on, it's the job of the operator who runs the port. We're just helping him to do what we can as a government to do in these transit loads, to help with more transit traffic with the authorities there, and we're continuing to do that. I have no such statement for the Tripoli-Erzincan railway. There's a mistake here, I want to fix it first, but let me tell you something: the rail road has been on the country's agenda for years. I mean, why are you saying it now, why are you saying it? Projects are first discussed. First you reveal your vision, your goals. Then they're put into planning, they're doing projects, they're coming into the investment program. After that, it's done with the resources of the country, as possible. Turkey has a difficult geography, we know that. When you build a railway for Tripoli, Erzincan, a tunnel is 22km long, only a tunnel. There are no tunnels, there are countless tunnels, but it will be done. (EC PARTY Applause) Let's not forget that the best work of the project takes serious time. Let's make the best of this time... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but I'm giving you an extension to finish, go ahead, go ahead. Thank you very much. So the Tripolin-Erzincan railway is not our project, but a project by Ataturk. So, eventually, this project will be done, and I'd like to express it from here. You don't like my directions, frankly. I mean, there's a delay, and I admit it, but it's better than never being done. It never used to be done, and now it's delayed, but I didn't explain the delays as an excuse; we have problems that we're experiencing, that we're not. In publicization, people don't make sacrifices; it's easier to make sacrifices, to abandon them, not to do so. There are two kinds of approaches: an approach, a road to be made, a good, a good comfort to be made, an increase in the future, an increase in the economy. Give me a place in the field, in the garden, and I don't want money, my brother says. An approach can't find a way to make a path. It's the truth. You're a lawyer, and we know where the costs go in publicization cases, and we know that the cost of construction has gone five times as high as 10 times. There's nothing we can do against the legal system. We're wasting time and we're losing money. We've made more than a third of the way on Law Boulevard, and the cost of publicisation is greater than the price of the road's construction; for that reason, this great Parliament must certainly attach publicisation to a foundation, not to trade purposes, not to publicization. Given the honors of the overall routes to the economy, the construction in the neighborhood, we need a new publicisation law, and if we can do that, we'll be able to separate a lot of the extra money we're paying for publicisation to make new roads. I'd like to thank Mr. Gürer for his statements regarding the Baz stations. Obviously, there's no concrete indication that he has cancer, but it's common to people as a perception, but let's not forget that every blessing has its burden. Without today's technology, we have no way of communicating with the cell phone without a cell tower. In fact, the cell phone in your pocket right now poses more risks than that cell tower. If we're gonna do something like this, we all have to leave our cell phones, and then life's gonna be hard. The cell phone has now become a member of our family, where we look for as much as our children, as our family members, and when there is a shortage, life will stop. So, of course, when we see that it's going to hurt on purpose, we intervene on them; there are rules, there are fundamentals -- how much I've just told you -- there are rules about how many electromagnetic waves you're going to spray. What's all the commotion in this area? Local governments and the BTK... Information Technologies and Communications Corporation are a binding upper body of our Ministry, the authority is here, but local governments, unfortunately, are very involved in implementing these powers, and therefore need to take a step towards resolving the dissolution of authority here. Mr. Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı has further questions. I'd like to say a few words about them, too. The logistics center will be rebuilt, and it will be done immediately. Don't worry about it there. On the other hand, the Byzantine Road, okay, so it's a demand, brought up by you, by our representatives, by you, by the confederates. As of that day's project load, as of our budget, we couldn't bring it up immediately, but now that we have, we're still working 25 kilometers, you know. Our schedule in the other part is clear, and we'll start there in 2016. But the most important thing here is publicization. In particular, we have a proposal for the environmental path demands in the cities: you apply the 18th Article of the Building Law, KOP and DOP, share the partnership share, open a corridor for us, and we will make our way in the corridor. There are municipalities where we have successfully done this. An example: the City of Elazığ. We made 3x2 freeways in Elizýg. I'm assuming the entire road is 15 miles, the cost of nationalization is 135 trillion, the cost of the road is 30 trillion. By doing these practices, the city carried out free nationalization, and we quickly completed the road. We demand this from all municipalities, and we aim to get things done as soon as possible. Of course, it's about the airport: the airport of Iconium is military-military. In the long run, we're in favor of building a separate military square and moving the military main jet base there to another location, because the target training centers are now near the industry, and they're a risk to it. In this regard, the military and the Joint Chiefs are optimistic, but this is a matter of planning, a matter of timing, and when the time comes, we'll have done it. The Ereglı airport -- I've just told you -- is a regional airport for Eregli, which is 60 kilometers [60 km] away from the Karaman airport, and is able to serve both of them freely. It's a new note. The port of Tripoli is docked at 20,000 dwt/ton containers. The 20,000-ton container ship is not a small ship, and if that information is correct, that's information coming in. And over there, you're going to need a draft, a draft, up to 14 meters, and we're going to look at that as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0364par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0363par0152	Mr. Secretary, thank you. Dear MPs, the question motions have been answered. Now, according to 60, there are MPs entering the system, and before I give them my word, I'd like to make a promise to Mr. Deputy Director Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0365par0158	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I believe you'll succeed in the mission you've just assumed and performed today for the first time. Your tolerance, especially when the deadline is over today, is very important for Parliament to express its opinion, especially the MPs on the stand, and for Parliament to conduct a healthy life and a healthy control activity. We hope that your approach will inspire other counterparts and others will do the same. Of course, it's candle night, we're celebrating everyone's lamps. Even though it was an hour of additional work with a last-minute proposal from the ruling party, we did a good thing. Mr. Secretary has answered the questions. Of course, we all consider the answers to be unsatisfactory, but there is one thing that I, especially the Minister, would like very much to correct. He says: "We're going to make the road, and the citizen -- he did his hand like this -- see if we can find our way." Mr. Secretary, not every citizen is in the economy to give up for the good of the country, for the sake of the land he has left and for the land he has left. That is, of course, your assessment of the assets of yourself and your political friends around you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0366par0165	What's that got to do with anything? Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0367par0166	Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0368par0167	Oh, come on! Can you mend your sentences? Don't do that! Jesus Christ! Would you correct your mistake, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0168	However, there is no approach from the father to the ten acres of olive grove, and from the five acres of teafields, that they may leave so that the road may be fast. Maybe even the money you're giving me is a serious problem if it doesn't allow that citizen to have a place of precedent and maintain his life.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0368par0169	You're making a pun.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0170	Please, like this, by impersonating a citizen from the council bench, don't do it so we can find our way... and go sit down and have a chat with those citizens who are in charge of publicization.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0370par0171	There's a two approach. He said, "It's a two approach."
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0172	I understand the reactions. Reactions are because we touched the nerve ending from the right place. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Today is also...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0370par0175	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0371par0176	It's unnecessary, because you talk uselessly!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0177	If the Minister is telling the truth, you'll share the Minister's burden on this candle night.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0371par0178	You're talking out of turn, it's unnecessary.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0179	Don't tell anyone to leave like that.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0372par0181	I'm glad you didn't.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0369par0182	I'll tell you this: Mr. Minister says that when you answer about the lconium -- and the congressman wants to give it to you -- there's also a practice of throwing, so there's a weakness for Mr. Minister's shooting training because the work is done in Konya, it's the education of Turkish stars. You don't do target practice like that. I'll pass it along with the warnings of our esteemed MPs. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0373par0184	Thank you, Mr. Special. Another group of vice presidents have entered the system, but he appears to be a botanist, and I'm Mr. Inceöz.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0186	It's possible he's been in there before. I wanted to get back in my name, but it was a hit.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0373par0187	Well, I'll give it to you, then. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, again, I'd like to say good luck with your acting president. I hope that you will be able to perform a government based on the Civil Code and objectively only under the Interior Charter. Now, I congratulate all my friends on Mevlit Kandili, the Mevlit Kandili, of the Islamic world. We did a good job today. Our Minister has just answered verbal questions. And when you say that, Mr. Group Vice President... the testimony of our Minister here -- probably himself, and our Minister, will answer, but the testimony here was very clear. Here, he mentioned two types of approach to publicisation. One of them said that our citizen was approaching in general - another way of looking at it, meaning that, in fact, he stressed it there and there. There's a lot of...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0375par0193	Let's find our way, make our way, find our way.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0376par0194	The Minister is here to defend himself. Why are you defending him?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0195	And people like that don't disappear, so there's bound to be... cases, cases that he's been dealing with. We've got some lawyer friends here, we all know that. With a prejudice on behalf of the citizen, I don't think it's a very right approach to place the person who speaks here under suspicion, and the people who are meant to be, no matter what.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0377par0196	You're under citizen's suspicion, and you're accusing me. You're under suspicion.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0197	There are such approaches, and there are certain facts that he has met -- Mr. Minister himself -- that he will answer -- that he must have felt the need to say it. But it's not right to read intentions from here.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0378par0198	Let's read the report, read the report. The road will be made, so let's find our way.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0199	What are the nerve endings for? The nerve endings of what? Look, I'm very clear about this: it's been discussed last week, and it's going to be spoken from now on, and it's going to be said in the next years and in the smallest of things, but it's certainly not in any way involved, and none of my friends in my group are going to agree to charge me with it. Look, we're here to try to meet the requirements of our nation's power of attorney.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0379par0201	Yes, you're here to accuse them of being roadfinders.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0202	Make no mistake, we have no problem finding a way around anything. Look, every friend of ours who stood on the stand today said: "Make sure that we are putting up with it in a very serious way. " No friend of ours prefers to alter it here as a language. We show endurance, but when we show endurance, yes, let's not read intent.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0380par0204	Don't let it get to you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0205	There are a number of accusations being filed on the basis of the constant reading of intent.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0381par0206	Let's read a report. Let's read a report.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0207	Let's read the transcripts. Our Minister will give you the answer anyway.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0381par0208	I wish there was time, the president would get the report, we could read it.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0374par0209	But I don't think we should accuse anyone in that sense. May Mevlit Kandili be blessed again. I also want to say that I regret ending a good study like this.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0382par0212	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Lightning, I give you my word according to the Civil Code of 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0383par0216	Minister, I wish you good luck again with your new assignment. First of all, I'm not asking about the snake story, I'm asking about when the tender for Çukurova airport is going back to the story of the lie. It was said to be held on October 20th, but it's been cancelled again, and it's said that the tender will be held in January. Billboards have been hung about the 8 lanes of Adana-Mersin road. How are you going to do that with your sense of publicization in this logic? In the same way, it's said that the Fountain-Slayer Road will be the highway and will be finished as a link road. How are you going to do that with your publicization logic? We haven't finished enlarging your path in ten years yet, and we've made 14 miles in 14 years. When do you plan to end these roads? He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0384par0222	Congressmans, I will promise our representatives who normally enter the system according to the Civil Code 60, but the Minister is asked questions. Mr. Secretary can answer now if he wants. The other MPs will probably ask you questions, too. If you're demanding, let's give you the last word, however you like. AUDIENCE, AUDIENCE AND AUDIENCE IS A BINAL INDIVITY (IZMIT).
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0385par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0386par0226	Mr. President, question time is over, sir, in writing. Let's take his opinion on his own personal opinion.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0385par0227	He already did.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0228	Then let's make a promise to Mr. Secretary that the members of the group also have statements. Then I'll make a promise to the other MPs according to 60.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0388par0229	Let him answer them all at once, Mr. Secretary, let's not tire him out.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0230	Congressmans, there is no such procedure. So we're going to answer questions. So, since it's not a procedure like this, I'm only going to promise you that you're in the system according to 60.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0388par0231	Let's not tire out the minister, they're getting tired of the road.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0232	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My assessment of the publicisation of our Republican People's Party deputy... [[Interference between the AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, if you please. Yes, dear friends, now, I've made a sincere statement about a situation we live in here on the field. [[Interference between the AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is on the stand and giving a speech. I don't mean, I don't mean it, I don't mean it, I don't want it to go to another dimension, and I don't want it to go to another dimension. Let me say this once. Everyone knows that when there's going to be a publicization somewhere, there's people who have a job, they're going to come out, I'm going to buy your land 10 times 15 times, I'm going to own half of it. If this is an incident, it's happening, we're living it on the ground. That's what I mean. According to the experts' reports, 10 times the value of the statement, 15 times the amount of the court. This time, the source you're going to take is going to publicize. It's an unfair gain. That's what I mean. I said there are only two kinds of thoughts, I'm on it, without targeting anyone else, and these two thoughts continue. And we go to some people and we say, "We're going to build a road here." And they say, "Well, do it the way." We know they're leaving, no charge. I'm talking about a situation in the field, and I'm talking about it being wrong, and it's the saving of a public source to serve more people with a new legal arrangement. That's the main thing, and if there's any other misunderstanding, I'd like to make it right. That's what I'm saying, it's nothing else. Our goal is to build a road. So, you can tell us, here's my deputy, he couldn't, he couldn't, but what happened in Turkey over the last 13 years on the road has never happened in the history of the Republic. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We've moved the 2,000-mile-long split-way up to 24,000 kilometers. There was a divided road between our five provinces, and there are now a divided road between our 75 provinces. All of this has been done. We used $240 billion in resources. So, all of this is the service that was performed during the last AK PARTY power period. There are some delays, some delays, and we accept that in advance. It's often caused by circumstances we can't manage. It's been our fault, I admit that. There have been deficits in the form of tenders, etcetera, etcetera. Where there's a man, there's always a mistake. Let me make one thing clear: the military military airport, not just the turkish bird, but the third. The main jet is base command, and the shots are still being fired. Mustafa knows that. I'd like to correct that information. In other words, the Çukurova airport. The Çukurova airport is also a project that we bring up. A few years ago, we negotiated with the do-and-work model, and they started working, and the company spent 50 million euros, and then the financial difficulties went into it, and it couldn't do the soapcube or the place. Legal procedures were run, the contract was terminated. Now it will be done again and done. It's as simple as that. So, like I said, there's been a delay for reasons that have evolved outside of us, but we're going to have to do the Çukurova airport as soon as possible, and that's needed. Adana Airport is no longer able to meet that need, and due to the construction around it, the munias are a serious risk.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0389par0246	In that respect, we'll definitely have this airport, and we'll pick up where we left off next year. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're actually out of work, but there are MPs entering the system. Please, no new entrances. I'm going to give the MPs a minute to get into the system, and I'm going to finish it. Mr. Petek, please...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0390par0253	Mr. President, blessed night.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0391par0254	You were going to tell the group, brother, they extended it. It was over at eight.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0255	No Mr. Petek. Mr. Oz? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. lion? There is no Mr. Arslan. They're in and out of the system, lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0392par0259	Mr. President, that's not an app. Time's up, conversation's up.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0387par0260	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0393par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the MPs from all of Mersin's parties are now in the hall. The three important projects of Mersin are cooked, brought by the AKP government during each election period, but forgotten after the election is over. One of my friends told me is the Çukurova airport; one is the Mersin-Antalia highway; one is the Tarsus-Winning Tourism Project. Now, for God's sake, we've done your own work. You say you've done your own work, and you're putting the work that you can't do on others. He couldn't make a firm, sir, so there's no publicization, it's not our fault. For God's sake, give us a date, when will the first plane land at Çukurova Airport? When will we go directly from the highway to Antalya? When will the Cinnamon-Winner finish? Clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0394par0265	Mr. Budak...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0395par0267	Mr. Secretary, congratulations on your new term. You just said the road in 75 districts has been divided. I'm an Antalya MP. Konya, Isparta, Mersin, 3 il. So if you subtract 75 from 81, you get 6 provinces. So Antalya couldn't make contact with the three neighbors. My deputy just asked me: the Mersin-Antalia road is still incomplete. There's a western freeway, a snake story -- you know very well -- it hasn't been finished in 12 years. It is a total of 12 kilometers, and it connects Antalya to the Belt. At this moment, trucks are passing through the coast of Konyaltı. Northern freeway, east freeway, Demre airport, they're said during every election period, but unfortunately there's still no project. I want to know about these things. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0396par0270	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0397par0272	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I especially congratulate you, Mevlit Kandili, of my Mersin people. I thank the Honorable Minister for the services they've done so far. I want to thank them for connecting Ankara to Pozantiya, Ulukish, Adana, Mersin. I'd like to tell you a thing or two about Baz stations as an academic. You know, we're splitting electromagnetic radiation in two, so it's about to cause cancer and it doesn't. The ionizing radiation can cause cancer, but the risk of cancer is very low because the cell towers are nonionized electromagnetic radiation. So in international publications, the level of evidence is very high, level one, the effects of cell phones, cell towers, cancer-producing effects have not been proven. That's the way to think about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In particular, in the November 1st election, our people gave the EC PARTY a vote for their significant contribution to transport, naval, communication and health. I'd really like to thank Mr. Secretary of State for the transport.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0398par0278	Thank you. Mr. Depboy...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0399par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. There are two questions I'd like to ask the Minister as an Aydin MP. This was also presented to the Enlightenees by the AKP as a promise of election. Number one: there's a highway that's been expected to be finished since 2002, the Aydın-Marine line. When will this be completed? Again, my second question is about Crazy Airport. The Lightmen are waiting for an airport. You know, Aydın is a province famous for exporting and importing fresh food, and he wants to open the airport to interstate transport along with cargo transport. Crazy Airport doesn't have the proper standards. When is there going to be a study on this? When do we get an airport?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0400par0285	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0401par0288	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary will certainly review the report tomorrow, and the Free Special is glad that he said it, which is the only way this report could have been corrected. Because the report is very clear. When we make the road, we have two choices. For those of you who have left the road, and for those who have not left, you say: "Let us find our way." So it must be said: "There are those who leave, and there are those who don't." There are also those who need this money in good faith. And here's what's happening... then, he'll rest with another ear. But the approach earlier was very wrong, especially when it was said, I'm asking the ruling party MPs: this is the Civil Code and the Parliamentary Agenda, something everyone should read every day. We were closing at eight today. The ruling party came up with a group proposal, to work on additional verbal questions that added to its last line. In fact, I said, "What if we bring this in?" I said, "What if we bring this in?" I said, "The Kandil Night is running the Parliament." You say, "You criticize us, you do it yourself." You're fucking with us. And let's put it this way: friends know that today, a friend of yours took five minutes, a friend of yours one minute off the agenda. About what? It's about Mevlit Kandili. It's also been given to you to treat this sacred night with the main agenda of the entire Islamic world as irrelevant. Thank you very much. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0402par0295	Thank you, Mr. Special. Finally, Mr. Secretary, here you go, I give you my word.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0403par0297	They couldn't make their way from the opposite side to Buca. They couldn't even park. You've built 55 airports. Congratulations.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0404par0298	So we'd get 50 percent of the vote in Izmir?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0403par0299	You buried it in the chest on November 1st. Well done, you buried it in the trunk! That's enough for you!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0404par0301	The citizen voted 50% in the chest, 50%.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0403par0302	Come back in four years, four years later! Learn your lesson and come! Learn your lesson and come! You guys couldn't make a playground!
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0404par0303	Izmirli didn't choose his minister, Izmirli.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0403par0304	He couldn't build a playground in Antalya. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0404par0305	They buried the Minister in the chest in Izmir.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0405par0306	Congressmans, we made a promise to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, come in. Mr. President, it's been a long time since we've been talking. How's that?
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0406par0310	It's Osman Bey's habit, Minister. Yes, well, I won't prolong the day. I got the questions. You have to give some of it in writing, it contains details. Crazy Airport in Turkish Airlines, they took it to run for education. However, we do know that Aydın would like to use it specifically for cargo transport. That's what we're going to do. I'd like that to be known. The Enlightenment-Sea highway will also be built-and-run model for the next term, at least to be started. I want you to know that, too. Isparta-Mersin has connections. They're still trying to turn it into a divided road. That's a lot of tunnels. Our geography is difficult, so there are only 36 tunnels in the Alanya-Mersin-Antalia connection. These tunnels don't open in one day, this road will continue to work for the next five years. That's a good thing to know. After I say this, I'll answer other matters in writing. Again...
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0407par0316	Minister, you haven't answered Mersin again. Sir? You've ignored Mersin again, and you haven't answered. I didn't ignore the answer about Mersin, we're going to start the Chukurova airport, we're going to do it. When does the plane land? I don't answer when will the plane land today? Let's do the bidding, we'll get the bids, and there'll be time, and I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0408par0322	They're obvious, Mr. Secretary. Sir? They're obvious, let's not fool each other. No, it's unclear, it's unclear. It's unclear, but everyone needs to know that infrastructure investments are always delayed by some unpredictable, unpredictabilityal reasons in the field.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0409par0326	It always happens to Mersin. Sir? It's always Mersin, Mr. Secretary. No, it's everywhere, but you know for yourself that so far there's a lot of work to be done. You know what we have done to the rail system between Mersin-Adana, to Mersin-Adana, and to the Erdemli-Power, and to the road that is divided from Mut. From Sertavul Pass to Mersin, and to Silifke. Mr. Special, you're back on the subject, and I'll give you a line. Look, I'm telling you the truth here, the truth is, there are law firms that deal in publicisation, and we need to see this. It's not a right, it's not a citizen's money. That's what I want to draw attention to. Otherwise, the money that comes into the hands of the citizen is as lawful as the mother's milk, and we're doing it by negotiating, negotiating, agreeing with many of them. There are those who give without cost. That's what I'm saying. I want her to know once again that this is the case for her. Mr. President, I wish you the best of luck and the best of luck. Once again, I congratulate you all on Mevlit Kandili. I wish you a good evening. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0410par0334	The chest was on November 1st, Minister. The chest was on November 1st. I'll see you in four years.
tbmm-2015-12-22sit04spe0411par0335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (December 23rd 2015) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (December 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
