tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İzmir MP Oktay Sırkal, who asked for a statement about PKK construction and Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who was killed at the University of Ege. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a vow outside the agenda of our brother, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who was killed by separatists on the campus of Ege University.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0001par0012	Ladies and gentlemen, the General Assembly is humming, please have the standing MPs take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0002par0014	Yes, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, I ask for my brother's mercy again from Cenab, I pray for patience with his family. I'm sorry for all your ulterior motives, all your youth. All over Turkey, I thank those who condemn this vile attack against Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, those who ask for mercy. Yes, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu takes formalization courses in the History Department of Literature. I'm afraid he's being attacked by an organized force on his way out of Literary School after signing up for formal lessons. Actually, there are tensions a few days before that. There's been tensions for three months. The university chancellor and the police are aware of these tensions. And after going to a canteen there, he gets stabbed in the canteen, and unfortunately, the ambulance that arrived after being stabbed didn't get there in time, so he bleeds to death. Although this attack was originally launched by the media as a conflict between opposing students, it is clear and clear that those who want to take away their right to education, to promote the separatist terrorist organization, and to use it as a base at the University of the Aegean are a misdemeanor attack. In fact, with these divisive pressures at universities growing, especially with this organization, the university corridors, frankly, are filled with the slogans of the terrorist organization... By setting up a tent on this subject, it became an Aegean University where the posters and banners of the terrorist organization were put there. Many universities in Turkey have such structures, unfortunately. In response to such structures, university rectors and law enforcement are not taking precautions at the time, they are trying to ensure the legitimacy of this arrangement by implementing a balance policy. The game on youth is clear. With this game of youth, there's a dirty, dirty trap that clearly wants to provoke society against one another, to ensure that youth is wasted. The nationalist movement, the nationalist movement, the patriots have never been trapped; they just want to be educated, go to school. Sadly, even though Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu was threatened by such an organised movement, the university presidency did not take precautions. If a university chancellor can't take care of his children, his students, when there's such a tense environment, if security isn't taking precautions, there's a serious provocation here, and it's clear. I'm asking you, this police department listens to us, watches us, and, well, didn't they get any information about the organization of such a organization there? What does this chancellor do? Why would he allow such construction? Why doesn't he simply attempt to take these security measures? Unfortunately, in many provinces of Turkey, in the face of such construction, the rectory and the police, frankly, are setting up a ground where the youth will be trapped in a trap. Who will answer for Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who allowed the universities to become a separatist terrorist group's home and couldn't protect our children? These, this brother of ours, did not fight while passing by. Two days before that, there was already tension. When he went to school, there was no problem, you could go to school. He went to school, signed his name, was attacked. He saw one of the attackers in the canteen, he went there, he was stabbed there. Unfortunately, this ambulance, ambulances, the first ambulance didn't pick him up after he was stabbed, and he bled to death because of the late arrival of the following ambulances. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Clearly, both the rectory and the police have significant weaknesses and responsibilities in the event. I wish you the mercy of Cenab. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0003par0023	Yes, thank you. The second non-responsive statement is from Erzincan MP Muharrem Izlu, who wants to talk about the issues of Erzincan Province. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to address Erzincan's problems. I salute you all. Dear MPs, I say, "Erzincan is shrinking, Erzincan people are overwhelmed; the tradesman, villager, worker, officer, young people are unemployed." I say, over and over again, I bring up my proposals, I offer solutions, I say, let's investigate, why don't you do it?" I ask you, "Why don't you do it?" But I'm afraid the people who love Erzincan. Erzincan's fate is stuck between someone's lips. It's a shame, Erzincana. Those of Erzincan at the time of the election, those who said that they loved Erzincan (Erzincan), continue to do the most damage to Erzincan (Erzincan). First of all, the district in Erzincan has polarized Erzincan. Both territorial and non-Erzincan-based citizens from Erzincan are not accepted or separated from Erzincan. But they're so conflicted, they're both regional and they're doing the worst damage to their territory, and they're going to keep doing it for four years. Their hatred is so high that they instruct the chiefs to go door to door, to press. They command all the institutions to destroy the chosen one. Ask all state institutions for votes. You will press and employ them. A mayor's brother is being banished on March 30th because he has come to the municipality elections. They come to Erzincana once a month, but they determine their entire destiny. Erzincan's been divided, they're the only ones who decide who does what and what. Which agency will be assigned to which manager, which manager will be appointed, no merit is important, what matters is their decision. They cast out the governor and the governor whom you asked for, but the governor lost the election. They removed him from the office, and disobeyed the governor of the district. They're playing on sports clubs. Erzincanspor was almost in the First Division before you came to power, and he is now on the pages of sports history. You are so fond of Erzincan. There is no service if you don't gather the village chiefs and vote. They threaten to do so, and they say, "We don't get up and discriminate." You're not going to spill 800 meters of asphalt, we're strong. You're going to say, "We're strong." You're going to show off, but you're going to do the biggest thing of discrimination. My people, my citizens of Erzincan, who has ruled Erzincan for twelve and a half years? I've been a congressman for four years, I've been a doctor for 18 years, I've made no distinction for one day, and I condemn those who discriminate. We wanted to do so much for Erzincan, and we offered so much for everything, and these so-called lovers of Erzincan did not even look at him. Those who loved Erzincan did not even nail Erzincan for the development of Erzincan. They tried to shut down the one industrial company, the sugar factory, the hospital, they tried to close the courthouses, they didn't send the money twice so they wouldn't serve the villages. At the end of agriculture, livestock, they just looked at it and watched. Because of the Mera, the Shavaks were about to turn against each other. The Yayladami-Lalanoba-Dolunay group road of Kemaliye is 12 kilometers. This road will be made before each election. It has been promised. We made a double journey of 17,000 kilometers. Those who boasted of it were blocked by the building of 12 kilometers. We've had enough of these Erzincan people who come with job demands or other demands. You know those who say, I'd like to call out to you people from Erzin alive: it's time to see the truth. Their goal is not to serve Erzincan, but to keep the power in their hands. Not in Erzincan, but in other places, they have big jobs, important positions, important positions. They don't care about Erzincan. They promised a lot, they didn't keep any of them. For example, did the Ershezens give their votes to the neighborhood before each election? They didn't. The election will come again, they'll promise again, they won't keep it again. If you're thinking of Erzincan, my dear countrymen, if you want Erzincan to rise, if you want Erzincan to come out of this strait, you'll do it. Those who haven't done anything in 12 years will do nothing after this hour, make promises and cheat again. By using your beliefs, we are strong. You know that these are what we will do to Erzincan, even though they have been in power for twelve years. You know that you will not vote for those who threaten you. For four years we have been by your side, we have been by your side, we have been by your service, we have been by your command. We didn't try to work for our own interests, we tried to work for yours. We're not like the ones who are thrown around like leaves. We've always brought up your problems, not ourselves. And I'd like to ask you, if you could ask anyone who spent so much money to be chosen where they found this mill. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel, who wants to talk about investments in Denizli province. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0006par0044	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise. I salute you, all of you, with respect to your high council. The EC PARTI, which came to power in 2002 for investments in our naval province, has implemented revolutionary arrangements and will be placed on the history page with the support of our nation. We have made arrangements to strengthen our naval province, and with the support of our nation, we have come to this day. Our dear friends, Denizli, are a province that is famous for its industry, its agriculture, its trade, its tourism, and in these sectors, we are a province that makes firsts and firsts as much as it can. The most important issue in agriculture is irrigation, and when we look at agriculture as the most important issue is production, efficiency has to be increased, and watering must be quality to improve the quality of production. For years, we used wild watering as the right way, knowing it was true, but after the wild irrigation, we saw the real minerals of the land, the mines of the land, were destroyed, barren. Right now, our government, through the Department of Agriculture, gives serious support to turn the DSI watering business into a closed system, a pressurized system. In particular, irrigation supports 80 percent of our troops. At the same time, Denizli has solved at least a little bit of this important entry, which increases the cost of input in the agricultural sector because of the electricity in many cities that are pumped in Turkey, and has done an exemplary job for Turkey; from the Cindere Dam, more than three thousand metres from the Cindere Dam, with a channel that has three separate tunnels and has a total length of 15km and has attracted a new system of up to 32 districts and over 11 hectares. And that way, they've reduced the cost of pumping and watering, and with charm, they've reduced the cost of input for our farmers in the agriculture area. Besides, we see that there are also irrigable fields in agriculture, and we know that we have irrigable soils. I mean, we call it the barren land. The Ministry of Agriculture has launched a mobilisation to ensure the value of barren land. It's an alternative product. It is the first thyme product to come up as an alternative product since the year it was quotad for tobacco in 1999. Currently, 70 per cent of exports in Turkey are supported by Denizli, which is collected from Denizli. Besides, these days, we're having meetings in our districts, in our districts, in our districts, in our chiefs, in our agriculture chamber presidents again in Denizli. In the soil pattern of each of our counties, we're trying to determine what alternative products can be valued in order for the irrigable and irrigated land of each county to be valued. That's what we're trying to manipulate our farmers in this sense. Right now, after the stammer, we've identified island tea and lavender plants. In addition, we are going to make serious income and diversify the product pattern with the planting of almonds and walnut trees. Yes, because of your geothermal source of greenhousery, the marine industrialist, our businessmen, our farmers, our peasants, after a joint study, along with the greenhousery, along with this barren land, where the water doesn't come from, for example, the lavender plant is a plant that lasts for 15 years and can produce 15 years. For today -- exports go directly -- sold for six or seven liras. Therefore, we must no longer remain only in one product, and we must make a variety of products. Meanwhile, there are also significant developments in what we call agricultural insurance, which is alone with nature, facing nature. A 2005 law, and the topic of TARSIM, which was adopted in 2006, is important to our farmers in agriculture, because there is no telling when the disaster, the flood, the hail, the frost will come. Therefore, we must take such measures by means of God's wisdom. What matters is that the product is evaluated by the sweat of the forehead. At this point, we're ready to do whatever falls on us. I was going to tell Denizli about the investments, but we stayed in agriculture. We have important investments in the industry, in the health department, in many other matters. And yet I salute you with such feelings and thoughts, with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I ask God's mercy to the student Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu who lost his life in events at the University of Ege. I offer my condolences and patience to his family, his relatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0009par0063	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As of 23.02.2015, I resign as a member of the Internal Affairs Commission. I'd like to thank you for what you need. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, the changes made by the AKP government in 2002 in Business Law No. 4857 were legally organised by the public and private sector to employ "tashon workers." In addition to the private sector, however, there are a number of court decisions made in the cases of subcontractors working in central and local businesses. In addition to the growing number of subcontractors, I would like to announce the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter to determine the conditions of working with financial and social rights, the problems of labour health and safety, and the measures to be taken. 20.11.2012 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Bitlis]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] A total of 1,5,254 sub-employees work in Turkey, including 585,788 in the public sector and 419,466 in the private sector, according to the Social Security Agency data. According to Article 2 of the Employment Law, part of the actual work to be given to the sub-employee must be "the work and the job requires expertise for technological reasons." Even though it does not require technological expertise, employers give part of the work to the sub-employee to restrict the rights of workers and to avoid some obligations. Sub-employee sub-employee sub-employee contractors are employed in hospitals, municipalities, land roads, universities without job guarantees, flexible and uncompromising. Most of the subcontractors' work, their service, is not in line with the position of duty. For example, the nurse, even though they're X-ray specialists, is being shown as a cleaning staff. In addition, subcontractors have problems with entry and exiting for a year without a year, long working hours, low wages and year-to-year vacations, social and union rights. In 2008, the Supreme Court decides that a different practice for the public is not lifted, despite an arrangement that exempts public employers from the obligations involved in the law. In recent years, subcontractors who have worked in hospitals, municipalities, universities for years have been on the doorstep of thousands of cases, are asked to pay their due due to either the decision on employment, or to pay their dues, as if the workplace had been fired from work, until the time it was removed from work. The Supreme Court's decisions point out that in order to employ subcontractors in a workplace, the requirement for employment is to co-operate and for technical reasons. Noting that public institutions are responsible for the rights and obligations of subcontractors, the obligations of collective employment agreements with the employer (e.g. public hospital) employees cannot be restricted by continuing to be employed by sub-employees or by someone who has previously been employed at that workplace. Otherwise, and generally the main employer's sub-employee relationship is acknowledged as based on proper processing, while the sub-employee's workers are initially considered employees of the original employer. The main work cannot be divided into sub-employees, except for jobs that require expertise for technological reasons and by business." It's called. If it is discovered that there is a proper procedure, the sub-employee's employees will be considered employees of the original employer from the time they start working at that workplace, and their rights will be calculated accordingly. However, the Supreme Court's decisions are not implemented in the public or in the private sector. Due to the failure of judicial decisions, subcontractors are primarily lost in terms of wages and social rights, permits, compensation, excessive labour fees, guaranteed work, labour health and safety, collective contract rights. It is clear that a new legal arrangement is needed to address the loss of rights of subcontractors under the Supreme Court's rulings. More and more important is the detection of the problems of the rising subcontractors, the detection of the measures to be taken, and the Parliament's audit work. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the dimensions of child labor exploitation and determine the measures to be taken, I demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 20/11/2012 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] 18) Erol Dora [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] According to 2006 TÜİK data, the number of children in a 6-17-year-old group across Turkey will be 16m264. 60.9% of the children in this age group are in urban, 39.1% are in rural areas. 84.7% of these children attend a school, while 15.3% do not attend school. 58.8% of children who do not attend school are girls. 5.9% of the 16 million and 264,000 children in the 6-17 age group (958,000 people) work. 47.7 per cent of children working in a 6-17-year-old group across Turkey live in rural areas, 52.4 per cent urban. 66% of child workers are men, 34% are girls, and 68.5% are not continuing to study. Children who work are not even paid per cent or paid a salary. Even the figures mentioned alone are terrifying, but what's even worse is that the actual numbers are higher than the numbers mentioned in the research. As we all know, many of the child laborers are employed as clerks, vendors, shoe painters, garbage-paper collectors and so on. That's why there's no way to control a job like this, so it's another fact that the real numbers are way above the given numbers. Child labor exploitation is based on the ultimate profit of capitalism. The best example of this situation is the laws and international agreements that are signed at the point of preventing child labor. If there are laws in Turkey today related to apprentice training institutions and the Apprentice Act, it means that as a phenomenon, apprentice labor is accepted by the state, even formulated as part of the system. Although some steps have been taken at the point of preventing child labor from being exploited by any law, these are steps that have no consequences in life. Turkey has many agreements with international organisations such as ILO, but these agreements do not mean much in terms of functionality, even though they contain articles on preventing children from working. The reason for this is that in countries such as Turkey, the prevalence of small and medium-sized enterprises, the lack of controlled enterprises, the lack of sound audits, and the lack of union organisation that can function in preventing this situation. The AKP government is trained under primitive conditions in vocational upper secondary schools, while art schools have no physical conditions for training in the work, while the government has put up 5,000 liras per student's allowance. Special vocational upper secondary schools, which will be opened in the Organised Industrial Zones (OSB), are under law. According to this, each student who is studying at special vocational and technical schools in the OSBs will be paid 1.5 times the cost of the student state. Information officials say that a student in vocational and technical high schools costs the state $3,300. According to this, about $5,000 per student will be paid for schools in OSB. Political power also looks at education with a sense of trade, as if it's at the mercy of the market, throwing away its education. This creates conditions that poor family children cannot read. Ten per cent of the employee working in previous legislation can only be employed as interns from vocational upper secondary schools, while the final amendment has made this unlimited. The bosses will be able to exploit any number of vocational high school students under the name of interns in their factories. In addition to the restructuring of the Apprentice Act and the restructuring of the Apprentice Act to prevent child labor exploitation, deterrent sanctions can be effective. The determination of the sizes of child labor exploitation and the measures to eliminate it is of great importance to the Parliament's audit work. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, in accordance with universal agreements, we provide the need for the implementation of studies for the creation of the database of child rights violations, in accordance with the laws of Turkey and the Constitution, and to investigate the mechanisms of preventing rights violations against children, the 98th of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105th Articles of the Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] As the Day of World Rights on November 20th, it is considered to be a world-class day in which all children around the world are born, including education, health, housing, and protection against physical, psychological, or sexual exploitation. The United Nations adopted the extended UN Convention on Child Rights on November 20, 1989, and 193 countries, including Turkey, sided with the contract. Turkey, which is the entity country, is one of the most intensive countries of child rights violations, is in agreements tasked with the protection of child rights and fighting rights violations against children. The UN Children's Rights Committee published its report on its proposals in October 2012, citing a series of problems, from domestic violence to problems related to access to education. The committee expressed concern that the principle of non-discrimination is not fully implemented in the Lauzan Peace Accord, especially in Kurdish, disabled children, girls, refugees and refugee children, and their access to adequate health and education in the eastern and southeast areas, especially in rural areas. According to data on child's rights in Turkey, child labour has reached 1 million, according to statistics on the latest data from 2006. According to a study conducted in 2012 with 440 elementary students in Istanbul, 67.9% of children have experienced emotional violence in one year, 63 percent have experienced physical violence, 74.3% have suffered neglect. In different categories of the Immigration Foundation, the report of child rights violations in the first ten months of 2012 states that there are 276 cases in violation of the child's right to protection, including sexual abuse, violence, and forced marriage, in which 68 children were taken into custody or arrested. Turkey is still protected by the United Nations (UN) signing the Children's Rights Convention on the basis of the Lausanne Treaty, while the children's rights to education, freedom of expression, the right to live their culture and use their own language. This withdrawal to block Kurdish children's right to education in the native language is a continuation of the state's stance on the use of basic rights in primary language education and public services. Kurdish children are subjected to conflict and intense psychological and physical violence in the environment of violence stemming from the government's unresolved approaches. Only 183 children were killed by security forces during AKP rule. With the TMK, children are still punished for many years in prisons with the law that all opposition groups are declared "terrorists." Turkey must ratify the Additional Individual Application Protocol for Children's Rights. The creation of an independent, independent, effective mechanism by children should ensure constitutional guarantees of child rights, especially violence against children as soon as possible. In the case of rape in Posanti Prison, children who are responsible for the state are subject to the most severe rights violations. Children's situation in prisons and all public institutions would be an important step towards the monitoring of NGOs. The lack of data for children with the biggest flaw should be improved by increasing shelters for children and women, creating comprehensive policies in the fight against violence. In this context, we propose the establishment of a research commission in Turkey to investigate studies for the creation of the database categorically of child rights violations, in line with universal agreements, the necessary integration studies in Turkey and the Constitution, and the mechanisms for preventing rights violations against children. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. In presidential terms, lawmakers who are not members of a political party group who wish to run for membership of non-political party members have been announced in the Commission for Human Rights Review of Women's Equality and Men's Rights. Members of parliament, the Commission on the Equality of Women's Opportunities and Human Rights Review also has a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions are on Monday (March 2nd 2015) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The National Assembly of Serbia will be held by the Women's Parliamentary Network in Belgrade, Serbia's capital, on March 2-3, 2015, with the cooperation of the European Security and Business Union Mission to Serbia. The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0010par0260	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0009par0261	I'll call now, sir. There's a second vote. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The adoption of the request of four members of the Council of Assembly Research Commission to attend meetings in the United States General Centre of the United Nations in New York City from March 09 to 2015, with the aim of investigating the reasons for the measures to be taken against the woman, and the adoption of the request to the approval of the General Assembly of the presidential Court of the presidential court, dated 16/02/2015 and 92. According to this, the General Assembly approves the Commission's participation in these meetings on March 7th to March 11, 2015, with the four-person delegation whose names are listed below. 1) Commission Chairman İstanbul MP Aval Dedegil 2) Vice President Kütahya MP Vural Kakuncu 3) Commission Speaker Kahramanmarash MP Sevde Bayazut escapes 4) Commissioner Izmir MP Hülya Güven Yes, I'll put it to your votes...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0011par0276	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit01spe0009par0277	I've already told Mr. Akar I'll call the number of decisions enough. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit02spe0009par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote on the presidential thesis was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0009par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote on the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly's resolution was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, accepted in advance. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (24/2/2015), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On February 12, 2015, Van MP Özdal Triker and his friends gave the number 1507. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the state of Sertkal, which was "substantially paralyzed due to bullets from the shoulder, leg and thigh of the Gaziantep province of Şahinbey district on 9/10/2014, should be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and that it be read on Tuesday (24/2/2015/15) in the same joint of the talks. People's Democratic Party has asked for a group proposal from Özdal Threeer, Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0012par0020	I have made a pledge in favor of our group proposal for our proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we have downloaded this motion to address a very important issue in this process, in which a bag of legislation will affect the lives of all our citizens, who are now living in our country, who will be born from now on. As proof of the immediate withdrawal of the anti-democratic, criminally-responsive intervention of police forces in the Law on Police Duty and Salahiye as evidence of the immediate withdrawal of this exemplary event: the democratic responses of police forces, non-human forces, non-responsibility of tortures that supported their arbitrary behaviors, or were exhibited by the people in the Gaziantep province of Şahinbey district on October 9, 2014. This young man, who has been reported to the prosecutor in police reports and is responsible for all events, is injured in different parts of his body, awaiting recovery at the hospital where he is now in danger of being paralyzed for life. Of course, in the police report, the police report was shot by police forces, or unknown persons, and the prosecution was subjected to a trial, arrest, punishment. Yes, the young girl they hit, the girl they hurt, the 18-year-old and the 10th-grader they hurt, and the even more severe one: they attempted to arrest the hospital authorities, the hospital officials, the doctors, the nurses, the nurses, the health workers, and they pressured her. This person is a terrorist, don't treat this as a humanitarian. They said, "They left her in the hospital without care for her for weeks, and eventually this young girl got bed sick because she wasn't in a hospital where she wasn't treated, because she didn't have enough surgery. Getting bed disease is a well-known thing in the medical world, which is a basic proof of incontinence. Yes, a young man was shot, shot, wounded, hospitalized, forced to die in order not to be treated, and a statement was made against him, and he was publicly called a terrorist. Now, I'm going to point out something very good and very carefully that I want you to listen to: this young girl at school who wrote her name on the board and was photographed along with it, Kentban Sertkal. His father is in the hospital, paralyzing him in a wheelchair. This young girl was not treated at the hospital; this young girl, paramilitary forces, was shot and declared a terrorist by deep government forces, but there is a fact that she is a picture of Turkey's sad reality; this 10th grader girl is deaf and dumb. What more can I say? He shouts a slogan, he's called a terrorist, he's shot on the basis of his slogan, and he goes to the hospital, he's being pressured not to look at this young girl in the hospital, and he's being called a terrorist through the media, but in reality, this girl is deaf and dumb. So, where are the shooters? Where are those who slay such young men, and who will judge them, and who will judge them? Who will judge those who walk around with machetes and guns and take pictures in the media? Who's going to judge the people who get into police vans and scan people? How much of this flag will it hold to its spiritual values, those who have come out and massacred people on police panzers and waved flags with joy? Guys, this is the end of the line. The AKP's government is not in a position to go out and make promises to the public to protect its own power, because 12 years of government experience will allow this people to develop an attitude in the first election. Here, the law on domestic security is issued to suppress the polls, to suppress society with violence, and to suppress society for its own rule. In these domestic security laws, many dark forces, in the name of the state, will use the weapons of the state to use these young men, these children, to use the weapons paid by their mothers and fathers, to kill children by using the Panzers. Perhaps, if it weren't for the Kurds, the ground would be in Turkey today. The city was Kurdish; if he had not been deaf and dumb, he would have spoken Kurdish. If he hadn't been deaf and dumb, he would have been screaming today, "Hawar, havr, havr, havr!" But the city boy, deaf and dumb, is being treated in the hospital. We hope the Cityban recovers. We hope that no young person, no child, will have the fate of the cityban. These laws are capable of multiplying such massacres, such murders, such executions. Haven't you had enough of thousands, tens of thousands of unsolved murders? Haven't you had enough killing hundreds of children? Haven't you had enough of burning the hearts of thousands of mothers? If the AKP doesn't withdraw this law today, if he passes this law, there will be only one solution for the people, one of the most fundamental rights in the world, the right to self-defense. The people will have no alternative but to defend themselves against the terror of the state. The law you're about to impose is capable of internal tension, internal conflict, even civil war. Here, we will not remain silent, indifferent, and do whatever it takes when our children are shot, our young ones are slaughtered. My respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0013par0033	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against group proposal by Isparta MP Recep Special. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0014par0037	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party on the motion to investigate. On October 9, 2014, during protests and demonstrations in the District of Şahinbey, Gaziantep Province, there was a statement that a brother, a citizen, was injured by some misbehavior of police, that he was a walking, speech-impaired person. Yeah, well, first of all, we say to this brother, "Get well soon." It's a common wish for all of us to pay for a crime, a crime, but if it wasn't for a Kurd, it would have been in place. It's impossible for us to accept sentences here. Are we going to share our pain on identities? When a Turk is injured, will we not feel pain if a Kurdish is hurt or a stranger is injured, a non-Muslim, or, in fact, an atheist who is not a member of any religion? Our sorrows must be one, and our joys must be one. What can I gain from politics? It is the greatest injustice that can be done to the victims of this injured work, and the truth, the truth, and the truth. Please, through IDs, we say we don't do this. We also wish that there would be no mention of state terror here on this bench. The state doesn't terrorize.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0015par0040	What's being done?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0014par0041	The state may use legitimate violence against some illegal activity...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0015par0042	Explain what was done, then, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0014par0043	...but this legal violence has a rule of law, it has control of the law. If there's a government outside of legitimate violence, the rule of law at that point goes back into law. We will use our right to self-defense here, at the point of a people's rebellion against state terrorism. I want to make it clear here that we strongly object to the fact that the statement was specifically said by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now, that's what happened. In this case, the administrative investigation is ongoing, the criminal investigation is ongoing. If there is a flaw in the judicial investigation, a mistake, a flaw in the assessment of evidence, then the control of this is still within the judiciary. You've made a mistake here. There's no chance, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way. We're talking about the independence of three men. We have the Constitutional Court's decree that there is no question, no discussion, no commission to investigate an ongoing investigation in the Constitutional Assembly. If the judicial authority is making a mistake here, there's an audit of it within the judicial authority again, it needs to be concluded within that audit. As the only suspect of this, if there is a serious mistake at the point where this brother -- Sertkal the City -- is having a trial, it can be corrected within his own system, but it must be corrected. Our purpose, our will, whose flaws, who is guilty of these events, is to be punished to the end, that no incident is closed, that no one is covered, but let's leave no one, the state's official security forces, and no one to blame. I say, let the material truth come to fruition, let the final judgment come to our attention, and then we may have a chance to say what we have to say here. And since today's agenda is clear, I'm afraid we can't agree with this research proposal, but I'd say it's our common wish that the actual truth come out as soon as possible. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0016par0051	Thank you. So we say to our citizens of Sertkal, the city, that we seek immediate healing and help God.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0017par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0016par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0017par0055	Mr. President, the orator just made a statement saying that I'm trying to get political credit through this incident through ethnic identity.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0016par0056	Here you go, Mr. Threeer. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0017par0060	Dear friends, the orator who just told you that while I was expressing this issue, I was engaged in an effort to provide political routing through ethnic identity. Those of us who know in real life know it's not like that. We, the Kurd, the Turk, the Laz, the Armenian, the Arab, the Suryani, whoever in the world, from any nation, any language, we defend everyone's fundamental rights and freedoms, and we adopt the principle of their equality. Not just humans, but all the creatures we live with in nature, we have an idea that advocates ecological life. This is the result of the government forces' hostile approach to Kurds from the unresolved Kurdish problem in Turkey. That's what we're trying to express. Yeah, if terror is shooting, killing, it's terror who shot our city girl. Whether he's a government official, whether he's governor, whether he's a governor, whether he's a governor, whether he's a cop, whether he's a teacher, whether he's a doctor. What is terror? It's about hurting people's lives, their property, for no reason or purpose. Here, the murdered children are victims of state terror. If the state wants to be cleared of this accusation, it must immediately judge all child murderers, all child rapists, and execute criminal action. That's what we say, that's what we say. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0018par0064	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal Mehmet Şeker, Gaziantep MP. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0019par0071	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge in favor of the People's Democratic Party group proposal. I salute you all. My fellow lawmakers, the AKP authorities, are famous for trying to get rid of their mistakes, their chaos, by linking them to either, or by making them guilty of imaginary lobbying, innocent citizens. If you call people to testify, including our president, you do encryption, you make appointments, you write names for Mahyaya sehven, in Ergenekon's case, you load the phones of the honorable soldiers you arrested for revenge, you put the photo of the so-called Genocide Memorial in Erivan, you write the statement in front of the Turkish Republic, you write the statement on the phone of the honorable soldiers you arrested for revenge. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. You don't know the limits in despotization, you put the citizen on the street, you drag the economy down, you create different lobbys as criminals, robot lobby, interest lobby, Jewish lobby, stock lobby, media lobby, blood lobby, media lobby, lobby of darkness-missing people, lobby of peace, lobby of peace, lobby of liquor lobby, porn lobby, potato lobby, potato lobby, preacher lobby, preacher lobby, public lobby, lobby of people, lobby of people, lobby of people, lobby of war lobby, lobby of people, lobby of terror, lobby of the people who miss the darkness, lobby of the losers, lobby of the losers, lobby of peace, many of the lobby of the people. You declare people without money to pay for his funeral, the vault of the terrorist organization you created, and now you declare the 20-year-old Kentiban Sertkal, who was born deaf and dumb, the only suspect in the incident of Kobani in Gaziantep, where five people died last November. We can't find anything but mercy. Gaziantep is one of the cities in which Kobani protests have suffered the biggest injury to violence, unfortunately, and the sole responsibility for this is the decisions taken by the government. If you stack more than 2 million people into the country without control, without supervision, you will trigger hundreds of problems with dominoes; you will open the way for weapons, drugs, organs, and human trafficking; you will open the way for prostitution; you will increase the number of beggars; you will import disease; you will import terrorists; you will import bloody acts of terror. If you do not provide the necessary means for a human life in the camps you have set up, the arrivals will attack rental homes, the rents will be two or threefold, you will provoke hostility between our tenants and Syrian tenants; you will sow enmity between the Syrian and your unemployed citizens, who are willing to work without insurance for three cents in order not to starve. If you do not bring out the difficulties you have caused to your citizens while the Syrians are opening their jobs, if you do not make mandatory payments, such as taxes, you will sow hostility between the tradesman and Syrian. If you place the Syrians in universities only with a declaration, you will sow enmity between the student and the Syrian who sweated for years to enter the university gate. If you let the Syrian young girls who were bought with a few cents' worth of dowry become second wives, you will sow hostility between the Turkish woman and Syrian. This list goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on If you allow the settlement of the Syrian people of Sunni Arab origin to be located in the areas of our majority Alevi citizens, if you see no problem in the settlement of the Syrians of Arab Sunni in the province of Şanliurfa, where our Kurdish citizens live, you will not be able to stop the tensions around here if you send Syrian Turkmen Alevis, Sunni Arabs to camps. They're shortsighted enough to turn the spark into a huge fire. No matter where you connect it, no matter which lobby you connect it to, it won't fit anywhere. Dear friends, in the events of October 6th, 7th, Turkey passed a very serious test, serious events took place, nearly 40 of our citizens were killed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0020par0077	51; 51.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0019par0078	We need to investigate these, dear friends. Why it happens, why it happened in this country, why so many people have lost their lives, we must investigate them. We've always said they've all been covered up in Turkey. Very valuable work has been done so far, and these valuable works have not been evaluated, I'm afraid. Let's get started. The unsolved murders have always been covered up in this country. Dear friends, no citizen can commit an unsolved murder in this country. If it works, the people in the government and the people who are protecting it, they can do it, and the citizens can't afford to commit an unsolved murder, but unfortunately, in Turkey, social events were hidden from the society, covering up the events of Maras, the events of Çorum, Sivas, and many unsolved murders. We're going through the same thing where we came in today. In the name of Ergenekon, many people were victimized. What was the result? Sir, that's what the parallel organization did. You said. The travel events took place, you said: there's an interest lobby, they're doing it. We suggested, come, let's find out who is this parallel, interest lobby, who organizes these things, who brings people down to one another, who divides them as Kurd-Turk, who divides them as Alevi-Sunni, let's bring them out, let's bring them out in public, let's give them the punishments in public, and condemn them in public. Unfortunately, you've never been to these things, dear friends, and the events of October 6th and 7th have also come from Turkey's shortsightedness. You should have predicted that if you support the ISIS terrorist organization, the ISIS terrorist organization would attack Kurdish citizens in Kobani, the Kurds who live on this side, there would be a serious problem with the people here, unfortunately you didn't. There's a lot of dark stuff going on in October 6th, 7th. Our elders have always said: "There is a higher mind, and someone is doing it. " Yes, we are doing it, and we have been saying it for years. Is there a parallel structure in this country or not? I do. Since when? There has been since 1952. What happened after 1952? Turkey entered NATO; Turkey's bureaucracy, politics, all of Turkey's institutions, unfortunately, this was placed. Since then, no power has considered taking a front against this parallel structure -- if it's entered into it. Unfortunately, the authorities have considered using them. I'll, you know, set my affairs straight, I'll be more successful in the next election, I'll rule out my opponents. And that's what happened at this point today in October 6th, 7th. From now on, whatever history is, it will happen again. Why is it going to happen? It's all because of the unpredictability of all power, dear friends. We need to figure this out. If you had solved the unsolved murders in this country, the perpetrators of May 1st, 1977, the massacre in Sivas and Çorum, if we could solve the social events of the 1990s, if we could find the perpetrators of the unsolved murders and bring them to the law, it wouldn't be October 6th or 7th, but what did we do? We judged Canaan in the bed of the Universe, and reduced his rank as a general to a man, because we were being dealt with by September 12th. These are all stories, protected by the Kenan universe in the square. With all due respect, all the laws of September 12th are still under this House of Parliament, all the institutions brought by September 12th are still alive, I'm afraid. So, what are we dealing with? We're dealing with individuals. We're not getting anywhere by dealing with individuals. Yeah, we've always said there's parallel structure in this country, parallel structure. What is it? Since 1952, an organization has been established in the structure, bureaucracy, politics, and all over this country since NATO entered Turkey. How do we rule that out? We'll rule it out hand-to-hand. We need to find this structure so no more kids die tomorrow, so no one else dies, and we're ready if you are. Let the perpetrators of the 6-7 October events come to light. When we said, "We had a proposal, it was rejected." With these, we had a motion for unsolved murders, denied. One of the most important commissions in this House is the Commission for the Investigation of Impacts and Communitions, and you didn't bring it, two years are over, and we're running out of parliamentary power, and we're just going to settle for what's left of our own mind. That's not true, guys. For the country's democracy, for human rights and freedoms, for our future, whoever's guilty must be brought before the law, whoever's guilty has to be judged; if we don't, we won't succeed, we'll relive the events of October 6-7 in the future. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0021par0088	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0022par0092	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On October 9, 2014, at the age of 20, in the prime of his life, a young sister was injured during the Kobani actions in Gaziantep Şehtkamil district. Of course, he's also deaf and unable to speak, making the pain even more dramatic. We say to him, "May he get well." May God heal him. By the way, it's not right to discriminate between our victims. As a result, each individual is a Turkish citizen, our brother; we have to look at the situation conscientiously, humanly and morally. As I've just pointed out, a person with a hearing disability is getting hurt. It's not right to look at this as political. The material truth has to come out, and if there's a pre-preparation investigation, the law should be cleared, and if there's a law in the process of trial, it should be cleared. We need to follow up on both forensic and administrative investigations. The victim needs legal assistance. Wherever the process leads, whoever has the means, whoever has the flaws, be examined and followed. We, as human beings, have to look at it that way. On the other hand, we need to pursue this politically. In that sense, I take it it's a conscientious duty to bring up the group proposal. I find this group proposal meaningful, I find this group proposal conscientious, moral. I'd also like to thank Mr. Özdal Trier, the Van MP who carried the matter to Parliament on his group's recommendation. Our agenda is clear. Since our agenda is clear, I'd like to present the group's proposal to the General Assembly's appreciation, and thank you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0023par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0024par0099	We'll ask for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0023par0100	I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0025par0103	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0024par0104	If there's a roll call, that's fine.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit03spe0023par0105	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Öz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ören, Mr. Kören, Mr. Logoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Turtüs, Mr. Turteli, Mr. Light, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal voted was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Unacceptable, correcting.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0026par0012	It's out of the way, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0013	Please, Mr. Kaplan. So there's no mistake, there's no mistake? It's a mistake. We fixed it. Unacceptable. Nationalist Action Party group proposal... And in front of everyone.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0027par0016	Anyway...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0017	No one has even lifted it up as agreed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0028par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0019	In favor of the nationalist movement group proposal...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0028par0020	Mr. President, let's take a look at the CCTV footage, you said it was agreed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0021	Sir?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0028par0022	You said, "It's agreed." We heard it inside, so let's look at the camera footage.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0023par0023	Yes, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors Tuesday (February 24, 2015), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 24, 2015, it has been suggested that we open a general meeting with İzmir MP and MP Oktay Vural of the UMP Group, which includes our national interests and national honors and dignity, which is adopted in the status of the Republic of Turkey, in order for the evacuation of Sülayman Shah Turbate and the Respect Station, to be held on Tuesday 24/2/2015 of the General Assembly (now). On behalf of the group's proposal from the National Movement Party, Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz is a member of the Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0029par0037	Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. We've made a group proposal to bring to the Assembly General Assembly a matter that has kept public opinion busy for several days and that is really public need to be informed. Dear AKP lawmakers, I'd like to start by questioning where the country is and what it means. Have you ever considered, dear friends, that for this nation, this country is a land that is known to be a saint of life, of life, of life, of life, of life, of life, and of memory. Therefore, I am a Muslim Turk, a Muslim Turk's son. Everyone who says, "What is a Turkish country is not a Turkish country, Turkistan / Country is a large and life-long country: Turan. Whether it is you people or not, every place I run my business, every place I sail my ship is appropriate." You can say, "I am a Muslim Turk's son." You can't be a country without a country, you can't be a country without a country, you can't be a country without a country. For centuries, our beloved nation has prayed and said, "Lord, do not leave me without a country, do not destroy my kingdom, my nation. Honorable lawmakers, under the direction of the AKP government, the Turkish Armed Forces' forces were abandoned to ISIS after a night operation in Syria, where Turkish territory was confirmed by Article 9 of the 1921 Treaty of Ankara, with the right to have soldiers and to draw flags. And on the way back, the shrine and the outpost were destroyed. Speaking of which, who has repeatedly abused mosques and shrines from this stand? You destroyed the mosques, the shrines, you burned them. Who said that? Look at what you've done, O AKP, when you gave the order to destroy the shrine that the practice had committed, didn't you ever fear God, or did your conscience ache? The AKP government, which has even launched a debate on Lausanne, has taken the country back from the winnings of Lausanne through this request operation. The Turkish nation, which has not been defeated for a century, has been withdrawn for the first time since the Great Attack, which began on 26 August 1922, and has lost its first country. What's that supposed to mean? The relics were buried in the Köme village controlled by the PKK, which is 200m away from Turkey. The Lausanne Agreement, which is the title of the Republic of Turkey, is at the mercy of the PYD, giving up its rights to the Republic of Turkey. The saintly land of the land has been abandoned in plain sight, without question, without the approval of the nation. Our national security and national gains have been ignored. Our national honor has been taken down. I ask, O AKP MPs, who said that in the Middle East the leaves would not move without our knowledge? With our government, Turkey became a quarterback both in the Middle East and in the world. Who declared the president leader of the world? If there is a threat to Solomon's Shah Temple, it will be carried out by necessity. An attack on this land will be considered an attack on Turkey. Who said that? For the safety of our soldier there, all measures will be taken, and every step will be taken. Who said, "We will pray in the mosque of Emevi in Damascus, and we will pray in the tomb of Saladdin Ayyubi, and we will pray in the tomb of Ethiopia?" Who's it gonna be? Erdogan, his general secretary-in-chief Davutoglu, is a private general general who has been appointed chief of staff as if there were no more generals left in the heroic Turkish Armed Forces. As far as the country's concerned, Bermuda is the devil's triangle. Let alone play in the region, where global and regional forces have raised and raised the most pain in the game, and then, as a result of his beating from the terrorist organization he employs, he has been playing quarterback to grave mover, returning to leave the shrine of Solomon Shah to ISIS, leaving the shrine of Süleyman Shah in the dark of the night without anyone seeing. If you can do this to the enemies of the Turkish nation, not to the sons of the Turkish nation, but to the enemies of the state, the nationals, if the only stone of the ecdat shrine is damaged, I will bring down Syria upon you. If you can say and do what you say, then you are the government. That's what the Ottoman you tried to abuse was doing. Otherwise, when he saw the threat, like you, he wouldn't have taken his father's grave and carried it elsewhere. There's only one fact: it's called a request, it's a loss of land, it's a drop of a flag. In three hours we'll land in Damascus. You said that 37km away in three and a half hours, in front of the PKK's extension in Syria, under the guidance of the PYD, you could only go to Solomon Shah Turbesi, and your solution was to sneak away with the relics.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0030par0045	Exactly.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0029par0046	Tomorrow, we wonder if you'll be moving Cyprus to Kolya instead of defending it, because its security is at stake. What do you know about heroism, courage, manhood, AKP? ▪ Nine tenths of a man is running away. Are you saying? Don't embarrass these people anymore. When the government brought defense to this disgrace, sir, our soldier's nose didn't bleed, the relics were taken, the bride came, and we didn't leave it there. One martyr, God rest his soul. The fact that our soldier's nose is not bleeding is also a matter of consolation. It seems to you that the land doesn't matter to you. Tomorrow, if God preserves this country, they will say: "We had historical artifacts there, we had public buildings, we had material possessions, we came, we didn't leave anything there." Yes, that's the head! That's the president, that's the Prime Minister, that's the governors of their heart. Who should these people trust, who should they trust? Military and political requirements must be explained to this nation sincerely. In the barracks, they ask the soldier, "Who is your country?" He says, "My mother is the soldier." Private Pasha, tell me what country will be to you. I have a promise to the Chief of Staff: How did you feel when the PKK, who had martyred thousands of soldiers in front of him, walked in Syria? Did it ever occur to you that our Mehmets, who were martyred in Cudi, Gabar, Tendurek, and said, "The country is my mother." Did it ever occur to you, and did you blush a little? What kind of disgrace is that, and what kind of ineptness is that? When you led the PKK and Mehmetchik on the same route, didn't you agree with the group of assassins of imperialism, the PKK? Does that suit the highest rank of the Turkish Armed Forces? The Turkish Penal Code has a sentence called treason. Would you tell me, members of the Veteran Assembly, how about treason? June 7th election, hopefully, is the day of reckoning on June 8th. There's no escaping this account. When asked about this account, I don't know if the three of you will now start a mobile grave transport company, or if the strategy institute will build a strategic depth fairy tale, but you'll give it to me in front of history. And they're giving the press a picture of him as if he'd won a great victory; in the middle, in which waters he swims, unknowingly, Ahmet, to his right, to his right, to his right, to his right, to his right, to his left, to his right, to the Minister of Defense, who tells the matter of the midnight slip, to the seat of the House, to the honey, to the honey, and may Allah increase your conversation. This picture reminds me of Farid, the son-in-law who presented Istanbul after the British occupation as a diplomatic victory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The son-in-law, Farid government, presented this vile occupation as a salvation, a enlightenment, and sent caravans to Anatolia to be understood in this way. I assume, Mr. AKP MPs, that's your next task, and I wish you all the best in this mission. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0031par0054	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0032par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0031par0056	The National Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Selma Irmak, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0032par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0031par0058	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0032par0059	The speaker teased our group with a derogatory language, such as the three brothers, the Bermuda triangle of the devil, etc.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0033par0060	The groom also gave Ferit Pasha a metaphor.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0032par0061	Son-in-law Ferit Pasha...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0034par0062	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0035par0064	Mr. President, now, yes, there's been some bullying, but there's been some bullying in the government, Mr. President, and there's no bullying in the group.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0032par0065	To the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is also our president.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0035par0066	The government is sitting there, Mr. President, and the government may want a word.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0036par0067	Yes, the government is there.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0037par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0038par0069	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0037par0070	Mr. President, the Justice and Development Party will have its own opinion. He can also answer my views there. Now, I'm waiting for the ready continent. I stand by everything the Deputy Director of the Group has to say.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0038par0071	Here you are, Mr. Bostanci. I promised you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0074	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Nevzat always speaks such provocative language. He probably wants to build a career in politics on this, because the sharper my tongue is, the closer I get to a kind of street language, the further I get to MHP. In fact, when I look at him personally, I see that Mr. Oktay Vural is on his way to becoming a very bad copy.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0040par0075	Mr. President, he's insulting you, not teasing you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0041par0076	It's insulting, it's insulting.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0077	But such a line, such a language, is of no use to either mp, nor to politics here.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0042par0078	You look good in it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0079	Talking about manliness, talking about evil triangles in Bermuda, trying to insult people who are at the top of the state and who have come there in legitimate ways, again, in a language similar to the words written on the street, on the walls, that is not a political analysis, that is a direct insult to the truth. It's based on insult...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0043par0080	Mr. President, aren't you going to interfere with this language or not?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0081	Listen, brother.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0043par0082	If you say something to listen to, I'll listen. You're insulting me.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0083	The language you use...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0043par0084	You're insulting me with a street mouth. That doesn't sound like a group vice president.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0085	In fact, when you talk, when this friend talks, I don't want to take your word for it, because that's how he expects to be answered, and that's how he's going to be famous, but unfortunately, we have to talk.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0044par0086	You're the one waiting to be famous.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0039par0087	His problem is to be famous because that's not the language of a person who wants to contribute to politics. With such a street language, such a macho language, you can't speak in a language that hasn't yet broken the tongue of such underdevelopedness, which doesn't understand the meaning of international policy.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0045par0088	Enough, enough, really enough!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0046par0089	Mr. President, he's insulting you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0047par0090	Mr. President, warn this friend of yours.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0048par0091	To lead Syria, to refer to the President, the Prime Minister, as the triangle of the devil in Bermuda... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, it's also a court case, and we'll settle it with him in court.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0049par0095	Mr. President, what kind of talk is that? Why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0051par0097	Yes, come in, Mr. Korkmaz, for bullying... you've already said it from the beginning.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There was no political talk here earlier, a full-on street-mouthed congressman being picked on, insulted. My regret is that this is an academic who actually has hundreds of students. I mean, I really want to know what this academic gentleman is telling his students, what he's saying, and I'm going to go for it. Mr. Oktay said it was a bad copy of Vural. Mr. Oktay Vural is our highly valued Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0052par0102	It should be an honor for you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0103	I've never seen you as an objector in my life. You'd be a bad singer, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0053par0104	It can't be a Turkist. A singer has a beautiful voice.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0105	Besides, I don't want to be a celebrity or anything. Teacher, you just became a congressman, it's my second term.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0054par0107	Congratulations, that's how you do it!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0108	As soon as you get here, you play some bleachers, you sit down, you're still acting as group president. Nevzat Korkmaz, who has given his heart to the nationalist Movement Party, has been doing everything in his power to achieve the ultimate nationalist movement for the past two semesters. We can't have the idea of being famous like that, of playing in places like that.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0054par0109	There are some who speak a gentleman's language and others who don't speak one like you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0110	And he used to walk with us for a while, and after that he became a man of purpose.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0055par0111	Sold, sold!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0054par0112	May you have part of the grace of the State.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0113	It's your job, Hodja, it's your job, it's your job, it's your job, it's your job, it's your job.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0054par0114	I told you, not to the ulcers. Don't beat around the bush, don't expand the target like that.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0115	I'm only suggesting that you speak with your academic credentials as a gentleman. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0056par0118	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0057par0119	May you have the grace of the grace of the State.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0120	Come on, come on, that's enough.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0058par0121	He's an asylum seeker, he's a refugee. Now he's no longer an idealist, he's a refugee.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0050par0122	He's the Turkist, the singer.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0059par0126	The National Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Selma Irmak, Şırnak MP. Here you are, Mr. River.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0060par0129	Dear President, I have made a commitment to express my group's views in the debate of the MP's parliament agenda. In an operation on the move of Suleiman Shah Turbage, Turkey has also launched an argument that has actually sparked a very backward debate in front of it, revealing Turkey's foreign policy, Middle Eastern policy, Syrian policy, bankruptcy here, and actually hitting the bottom here. The government of the AK PARTI, unfortunately, refers to the move of Solomon Shah Turbage as a great success to the public, and the debates have been carried on the grounds of the abandonment of the land or the removal of the land of the land elsewhere, the planting of the flag, and the standing of the flag. We think this argument is a very backward discussion. Instead of this discussion, what kind of politics Turkey is following in the Middle East, how successful Turkey's Syrian policy was, and what does this result mean to us, especially now, what policy Turkey is considering, especially about its relations with its neighbours, what kind of policy it puts before it, what debate should be done. Because not only do we have discussions about Solomon's Shah Temple, but many such discussions await us, and they will come before us. Because we know that Turkey, unfortunately in the Middle East, has stressed its efforts to continue its Neosmanist policies at every turn, and we know how unsupported and out of date this policy is, and therefore, with each time, our country has faced destruction. The content is so empty, we've only faced an argument that has stretched society, that divides society into poles, and that's what it creates. We know that from the beginning -- the policy of the AKP -- was a wrong policy, a whole of the wrong policies that could lead our country, the future of the country, the youth of the country, perhaps to war. We've put many times before the public the way they support me to become a participant or a participant in war, the dirty war that's been waged here. We see in the policy here that support for ISIS, trucks of the ISI, passing ISIS troops across the border, treating and training ISIS gang organisations across borders, training in military camps, and the movement of ISIS gang members in our country have come to the agenda of public opinion over and over again. However, not a single measure has been taken, and not a single explanation has been made, despite our repeated warnings. ISIS is the common enemy of mankind, ISIS is not only a troublemaker of the peoples that exist here, but rather of the Kurds that exist here, but it is actually an organization that will spread to the borders of this conflict and war if there is a war in Syria today, if ISIS succeeds here. Our party, our MPs, our organisations have said it over and over again, pointing to the danger. However, a profit that will be won here, persistently and stubbornly, is an Islamic country built on the winning of ISIS, and the dream of leading this Islamic country, the imaginary Islam country, unfortunately, has brought with it a lot of the discussions that we see here. These are the reasons that gave birth, that's politics. Yes, it's always in the interest of the peoples to continue to live, to unite their common destiny, and to continue to unite, just as Turkey is neighboring Kurds, and Kurds and Turks have lived together for thousands of years. A position to be won here by Kurds is also a win for Turkey. The fall of Kobani is also the danger of Turkey's future. And what we're saying today, yes, has come to life. If Kobani hadn't been rescued, if the Kurdish forces hadn't driven ISIS out of there, we wouldn't be talking about this today, we wouldn't even be talking about it, and there's no way that Shah Süleyman Temple could have moved away from here. Here, we know, the Turkish Armed Forces have entered an area that has been won, has been evacuated from ISIS, is surely made contact with local forces here, and this demand may be natural, it is a spiritual value, the Shah Süleyman Temple, where this shrine has been moved to a more secure location, and the security of the soldiers present here has been established. That's a good thing, not a bad thing. That's what we've been trying to tell you for months. If Kobani falls, you will be next door to ISIS and you will be next door to ISIS. We have said that it means that you will find trouble in your lap. But unfortunately, what we face in this matter will fall down. The cries of joy, the methods of supporting ISIS below, and the policy established on Kurdish hostility, have been continued in the international arena. Whatever the Kurds may not win, the policy has always lost to Turkey. That's what happened today. And that's what's gonna happen if this policy doesn't get dumped. So, rather than the argument that the land was saved or not rescued, what we can do from now on about foreign policy, there's a local power here, and how we can develop a relationship with this local power, how we can follow a political line, that's what we need to argue about. We don't think that all other arguments are going to bring us much profit. Here, as stated, the nationalist will cause some controversy, perhaps polarizing some debates, yes, affaki will cause the cries of artificial victory, which will not swallow, nor will society swallow. Now, our proposal is that, in the future, the PYD forces here, along with the Kurds, are to co-operate with the coalition forces of the peoples. Here is the opening of the human corridor and the rapid construction of this region, where Turkey will carry out its duty and responsibility; this is what we need to discuss, perhaps, to decide. This should be the effort to carry out the next policy. Yes, the gain here, as we say, will bring about the recognition of the borders of Kurds, Süryans, Armenians, Arabs, the coalition of peoples, and the recognition of the canton structures of common, communist life and thought, and the future of Turkey as a major country in the Middle East, becoming the leading country in the Middle East, and at least having a more comfortable and stronger relationship with its Middle East neighbours. That's what we mean from here. Yes, this argument is undoubtedly a very backward argument, but in this discussion, we also need to express sexist emphasises. Is that what you understand about manhood? Is that what you do? Is it masculinity? Yes, this mentality brings with it a language like this, and we want to say that we are also critical of this male and sexist language, which is used on this occasion. From now on, as we say, Salih Müslim will bring with him the stronger future PYD officials and diplomatic relations, including the prevention of problems such as ISIS. On this occasion, we also say that Turkey is a great country, it will rebuild its common future with Kurds, its peace process and its negotiations process quickly bring a positive and truly public conclusion, and it will bring Turkey to be a strong and able country in every sense to plant its flag everywhere. That's how I express our thoughts in this sense. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0061par0145	Thank you. Nationalist Action Party group proposal...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0062par0147	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0061par0148	What teasing, Mr. Yilmaz?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0062par0149	So, Mr. Speaker, in his statement, he used similar expressions of this sort because of the speech of our orator. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0061par0150	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0062par0154	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made some statements regarding the speech of our speaker, Mr. Nevzat Bey. The Turkish nation must have one heart here, rather than the National Party's view of Solomon Shah Turbage. But, if someone is waiting, as the government did today, we can't accept it if they're trying to leave Turkish country, Turkish soil, and make it look like a victory and a success to get out of there with Solomon Shah Temple and his body. A year ago, Mr. Erdoğan and Mr. Davutoglu had statements. Mr. Davutoglu -- today the Prime Minister -- has used this in his statements: No one should test our power. The land of Solomon's Tabulah is a land of the land. This is the most important factor of the National Movement Party's decision to vote "yes" when they go out to the counter; to eliminate any operation that may be directed to our shrine, towards the land's land, against its flag. What's going on today? In fear of some of the pressures, threats of ISIS's terrorist organization, you're bringing Suleiman Shah Turbesi to a region under the control of a terrorist organization on the other side, under the control of the PYD. Who are you bringing with you? You're bringing him in with a team that was led by the PYD. That's what we don't accept. For the first time in the history of the Republic, Turkey has lost land. We're expressing that this is the issue that needs to be discussed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0061par0157	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0063par0158	Mr. President, I have a brief request on this matter according to Article 60.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0061par0159	The People's Movement Party has asked for word in favour of the group's proposal, The Flood Köse, Corum MP. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0064par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. You all seem to remember that saying; whoever does it will find it. It was a promise your president, your Prime Minister, loved very much. You destroyed the mosque, closed the shrines. You have been slandering the Republican People's Party for years. What just happened? You have closed the shrine of Solomon the Shah, and you have gathered the stone, and you have destroyed it, and you have bombed it. When you went to the mosque in Damascus, you were also from the shrine in the house.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0065par0164	Exactly.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0066par0165	Bravo, Flood.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0064par0166	Now we have stopped praying in Damascus, and you have taken away our army without looking back. You couldn't escape on your own, with the YPG, which you've been equating with PKK for years, and you've been co-operating with PKK until yesterday, you've only managed to escape under their seats. In fact, it's in the international press. Robert Fisk, an expert in the Middle East in Independence. It is said that you also collaborated with ISIS, and that you received advice from ISIS. Dear friends, the direction of the AKP and its rulers has gone astray, and you have surprised your qiblah. You're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, You know there's such a thing as a wrong button on the first button. You buttoned the first button wrong, but now it comes out that you dialed the first button wrong. Do we have embassies in Yemen, Syria, Israel? We don't have an embassy in one. Do you remember, about four years ago, in 2011, you sent $300 million to the rebels in Libya, and you flew it, and you split it into three pieces in case the plane crashed, and on the day he left, those coins were left in the hands of the marauders there. You know what, Libya? Yesterday it appeared in the press: the new government in Libya is interfering with our internal affairs. He decided to deport Turkish companies. So, you hit the first button wrong. Your strategic partnership, your strategic depth, unfortunately, even drowned in shallow water. My dear friends, of course, this is happening, but on the one hand, we have a press set by the President, the propaganda machine of power. We're looking at your headlines now, yesterday's headlines. At night, he said: "The world is in a position of respect." Look, look, look, look! The sun said, "Tah Mat in nine hours." Who's mated in nine hours? In the morning, he said: "The flag didn't come down." Who are you kidding? The flag did not land with false images you received from the United States. Star said: "The flag was raised before the flag came down." Well, well, well, well! The calendar said: "Nine Hours of Breathing." Even Nazi Minister of Propaganda Goebbels would have made a hat out of these headlines today. You know better, but I remind you, Goebbels, that propaganda is easy when you win, the Nazis' Minister of propaganda. I told you to get a hat off, you're getting a hat off. While you're losing, you can sell defeat as a victory, you can even promote it. This must be the time you were talking about, propaganda while you were losing. Our land is there, you say. All the land in the world is in place, it's not going anywhere. Is it going somewhere? Where's Rumeli, Rumeli? Rumeli's in position. Ahmet Pasha said... I call Ahmet Pasha because he was named after the Ottomans. Ahmet Pasha, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, current Prime Minister, Veziriazam: For us, Saturday was a night of honor that connected Saturday to the market. You think he's leading the Battle of Commander-in-Chief, the Chief of Staff, the Air Force Commander, and our presence, he says. How'd he make it stronger? Do something to be jealous of, and we'll be jealous, and we'll take an example, and we'll look at it with envy. Like a man, we were unable to protect our land. The prime minister can't say. He's making fools of people. My dear friends, this is not a heroic epic. This could be connected to anything, but it can never be about heroism. If you seek heroism, you will go, and you will read the story of Kuvaimimilliah; and if you seek heroism, you will go to the mountains of Fivefingers; and you will go to Gallipoli; and if you seek heroism, you will go to the battle of the Inner. (HIP rows) The last Veziriazazam Ahmet Pasha dived into strategic depths without knowing how to swim -- the root of this depth is 38 kilometers, not so far from my house as from the House, so you're coming out of Çankaya, 38 kilometers later you're reaching the Teaway -- and now he's trying to retreat to shallow water so that he doesn't drown. You won't be able to protect the land 100 miles away, and you'll sell it to this nation as a hero, and you'll market it! Even Goebbels didn't think of that. Both your strategic depth and your new Ottomanism are buried in the village of Assembling of Syria, with the help of the YPG, even with the help of ISIS workers. If that were the case -- our General President -- was calling him the most unspecified Foreign Minister in history. Now he is acting as Prime Minister -- for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, you have buried the honorable foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey in the village of Köme of Syria, which has lasted a hundred years. Where's the hero in that? Look, fellas, the British didn't leave a land piece of land called Falkland just 12,000 kilometers away to the invader Argentina. What are you talking about, hero of what? You left the homeland 30 miles away!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0067par0180	They went to the highway, to the highway.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0064par0181	You've left the highway, you've left the Freeway! You're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're going down, you're You're gonna have to take out more security packages with that head of yours, you've been working on it for days, you're gonna have to take out more security packages, but that's not gonna be enough, you were funny before, and now you're being tragic. My dear friends, first of all -- I was going to say when I started talking -- but I'll tell you now -- in this operation, it's not really an operation, it's our Sergeant Major Halit Hunter who lost his life; I remember him from here with mercy, my condolences to his grieving family. Now, you called it multilateral foreign policy, strategic partnership. On the one hand, you were trying to make america's peace by making a defence-system deal with the Chinese while pissing off America. Now we're hearing that the MIT has explained, the National Intelligence Agency has explained, these ISIS militants, they've escaped from Kobani, do you know where the ISIS militants have come from Kobani? Right now, they've infiltrated Turkey, Turkey, where they're sleeping cells. So your multilateral and strategic foreign policy, unfortunately, has entered us, becoming a sleeping cell in Istanbul. We've drowned in strategic depth! Now, I'd like to talk to you a little bit as a lawyer. We all know that the Turkish Penal Code has Article 302, Article 302, which the lawyers know. It's a crime in our Turkish Penal Code that requires a life sentence of aggravated imprisonment, whether you want to subjugate the land, land, or give part of the land to the sovereignty of another state. Now, don't you, by taking the crates there and bombing the shrine, bringing Solomon Shah Turbesi to the village of Yaşme, 150 meters away from Turkey, and leaving the land of Solomon Shah Turbesi there under the rule of another land? Isn't that exactly the description of the crime described in the Turkish Penal Code that required aggravated life imprisonment? Friends, you will be tried, all of your haste; your domestic security package from this; your other MIT Law from this; but you will be tried in Turkey; but the international criminal courts will judge you; you have no escape from it, no escape from it. However, from here, from the lines of Congress, you look forward to it, but your end is not good, your whole struggle is this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0068par0189	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0069par0190	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0068par0191	Asked against the group proposal by the National Movement Party, Smurfünal is İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0070par0194	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the National Movement Party Group's proposal for a general meeting on the relocation of Süleyman Shah's Temple and Respect Station. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, one of the indications that this geography has been a home to this great nation for a thousand years is the Solomon Shah Temple, which has been renovated, restored, and replaced twice as a trust of the ancestors. The site of this shrine, considered an international site of Turkey as the land of Syria, was first replaced within the Castle in 1939, and then changed for the second time, when the waters of the dam built by the Syrian government on the River River were seen to be watered by the Caber Castle of Caber, which was taken from the castle of Süleyman Shah, Caber, in 1975, in the eastern part of Karakozak village of Aleppo. So the shrine, 60 miles from our borders, has been brought within 37 kilometers. Operation Shah Firat, held on February 21st and 22nd, and the trust of our ancestors was preserved and replaced within the international legal framework. Recent developments in Syria have put the security of the Shah Respect Station at greater risk every day. It is a very right move for the Solomon Shah Temple, which is in an important position for our country's withdrawal into the uncertainty of Syria, and for the Respect Station to be evacuated without any provocation, to move to a secure area next to our border. By moving our sacred values to an area next to our borders, the right to the Ankara Agreement has been maintained, the security of the staff at the police station has been more effective, and the Republic of Turkey has been prevented from encountering an unexpected provocation. The opposition has had several criticisms about the replacement of Solomon Shah's Temple and the Respect Station. There's only one sentence to be said for these criticisms. Dear lawmakers, let us never forget that no excuse can replace success. The action is also extremely successful. In this successful operation, both the land has been taken care of and our soldiers have been prevented from being harmed. Besides, the shrine wasn't left to terrorist organizations, it was only transported, as it had been done twice before. Dear lawmakers, we must stress that we are all willing to pay any price for the land. However, being willing to pay the price does not require recklessness. In the night conditions, it's an honor for the Turkish Armed Forces to plan and execute the joint operations of our Army and Air Force as perfect. I, especially our commanders, thank you to our Army Commander, Air Force Commander, Mr. Chief of Staff. Without excitement or provocation, our government has successfully made and successfully carried out this national decision with common sense, the state's mind and self-esteem. This action by our heroic soldiers has protected the ancestor's legacy. Dear lawmakers, as I put an end to my words, in order to prioritize the internal security reform talks on our agenda, I respectfully salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0071par0202	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0072par0205	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0071par0206	We've got a roll call. I'm going to submit the National Movement Party Group proposal to your votes, there's a roll call, and I'm going to do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse, Mr. Öz, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Akar, Mr. Chiray, Mr. Atici, Mr. Oran, Mr. Tamayligil, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tunay. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0073par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0071par0217	One moment, Mr. Hamzacebi, it's opening.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0073par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. The removal of the Turkish Armed Forces by handing over Suleiman Shah Turbage to ISIS is presented by the government as a success, in fact, a defeat. This defeat is expressed by opposition speakers, the National Movement Party and Republican People's Party speakers. Our Corum MP, Mr. Flood Köse, has just made some very important assessments. The government used sentences that we could view as very heavy content for the government. I've been waiting for the ruling group's deputy leaders to take a stand for bullying, but since they haven't, I'm assuming that our friends accept these assessments because the ruling party group agrees. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0074par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0075par0225	I was going to say that the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0076par0226	You don't have to, Mr. Ahmet! Politics isn't that simple.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0075par0227	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0077par0228	Mr. President, I just asked you to pick on me, of course, after Mr. Smurf came on the stand, you didn't promise me that. At least I'd like to make a statement from my position, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0075par0229	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0077par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, our friend on the stand, Mr. Smurf Ünal, who spoke on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, actually gave some answers, and we don't even see the need to answer some of them because the public knows them very well. Number one: yes, he spoke of a loss of land, unfairly and unregistered. For the third time since then, Solomon's Shah Temple has been moved; one in 1939, the other in 1975, let them see what powers existed in those days. Second: As of this moment, we have never, ever, ever lost land in the name of Solomon Shah Temple. Our flag has just been shown in Syria...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0078par0235	Who showed you, who?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0077par0236	...in the new secure area, where the shrine began to be built. Of course, someone was expecting that our relics in that fire circle, the officer there, our petty officers there, could it be that in that fire, some of the news -- God preserve -- of the martyrs -- could we somehow get a runt here?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0079par0238	Shame on you! Shame on you, Ahmet!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0077par0239	In that fire -- look, I'm telling you again -- we took our trusts to a safe place with the holy relics, the crates, and the world applauds it. But I think that if anyone, especially Mr. Kilicdaroglu's statements, can be front paged in the official agency of the Syrian regime, that's what should be questioned. Therefore, there is no loss of land in Syria.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0080par0241	What a waste of land!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0077par0242	Our government has defended our nation's law as best it can, and right now, in Syria, our flag, our glorious flag, continues to fluctuate. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0081par0244	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0082par0245	You will all be tried according to Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0083par0246	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0081par0247	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0083par0248	In his speech, Mr. Aydın said that the site of the earlier Solomon Shah Turbage had been replaced twice in 1939 and 1975, and that we should see who was in power at that time. He made an attempt on the Republican People's Party. In addition, our chairman, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, has taken today's group talk in a completely different direction, in a different way, to have a different meaning. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0084par0251	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0083par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to read to you again what I read yesterday, Article 9 of the Ankara Agreement. It's October 20th, 1921. Under the leadership of the Grand National Assembly, the Turkish nation, led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is giving the War on Liberation, the struggle to become a nation, the struggle to become a state. The article is this: Turkey will be the property of Sultan Osman's grandfather Süleyman Shah at Caber Castle, the founder of the Ottoman family, and the Turkish tomb will be the property of Turkey with its specific shrine, and Turkey will place guards there and draw the Turkish flag from the republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who inherited the Ottoman family. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) You're describing this as a success here, leaving a land under the protection of an Ottoman republic, not even to say to another country, to the country, to ISIS, to escape, to escape, to escape, to come. There's no need to go far. The year is 1996. There was a rock in the Aegean Sea called the Cardak Rocks. Rocks aren't part of the country to you. ▪ The rock, what will happen? Let's just give it to him. You say to the Greeks, to Greece. The Prime Minister of the time said that when the Greeks raised a flag there...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0085par0258	Ask Ismet Pasha about it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0083par0259	Shut up, you don't understand anything, you don't understand anything! It's your job to talk! The Prime Minister of Time said: "The flag goes down, the soldier goes away." There is no Prime Minister who can show that attitude. He ran away, he left, and the P.Y.D. Guided them. Mr. Aydın also said in his speech that we put it where it was shown to us.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0086par0261	No, I didn't say that. We put it where we detected it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0083par0262	It's a disgrace, a scandal. According to Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code, you will be sentenced to aggravated life sentence if you leave a land under the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey to another country. In this country, we'll live and see, it's called treason. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit04spe0087par0265	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0087par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Bostanci, I understand you have a request for a statement due to bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0088par0003	Yeah. Mr. Hamzacebi spoke of treason at the end of his speech on the operation of the Solomon Shah Temple, and accused the AK PARTY of its operation, of its operators. It's an open insult and a taunt, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0087par0004	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0088par0007	Mr. President, my dear friends, the Solomon Shah Temple has been replaced for the third time, but no one has ever thought of such a word as treason in the previous two shifts. Why is he coming today? He came today not because of the replacement of Solomon Shah Temple, but because of the political struggle inside, the sharp language of that political struggle. Anger and anger, I'm afraid, extends itself to an extremely overblown, extremely sharpening language of society. When you come out here like Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm first concerned that a friend of ours, who always speaks in cold blood, should have a very important claim and have his back on something that must be filled with it, would remind him of a sense of almost showy nationalism in a manner of treason. There's no political language like that. You can criticize what has been done in international politics, but to make such important incriminating claims, you have to fill it in, not in public, not in politics. On the other hand, he made an assessment of history. Friends, history is too wide to fit in three sentences, and historical truths sometimes, sometimes not always flow in a much different way than the language used in the current political struggle. If Mr. Hamzacebi had dealt with history to some extent, how useful material can I produce for today's political struggle? Mr. Hamzacebi would not have made such assessments if he had not really looked at history by turning his face to history and looking at it in a proper way. Therefore, I declare that this logic, which uses history with political anger, is useless. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0089par0011	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0089par0013	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0014	Sir, Mr. Bostanci has been taunting me by giving a speech that means I don't know history. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0091par0015	I told him you used historical material in the political struggle. You know enough to use it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0089par0016	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0018	Mr. President, now Mr. Bostian knows Foucault. Foucault says, "Who's the intellectual?," he says, "It's the person who uses his knowledge in the field of political struggle." So, whatever you know, if you can turn it into political language, that's the definition of enlightenment. Mr. Bostanci, I would expect to have an intellectual discussion here because of his academic identity, but unfortunately, his information is contrary to historical facts. To Mr. Bostanci, I will send you a memo containing all this information, whether it be now Fort Caber, or any further developments in the places where Solomon Shah Temple was found.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0092par0020	Thank you, I know. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0021	But, if you knew, you'd tell me from here, you didn't talk like that. Look, earlier, there was...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0093par0022	Hasn't it changed for the third time?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0023	Look, for one thing, the subject of the whereabouts of Solomon Shah Temple has been agreed on by mutual agreements between the Syrian government and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The old shrine was destroyed, and instead, a new shrine was built right next to the outpost. All of this has been carried out by mutual agreement between the governments of Syria and Turkey. Now, is there a mutual agreement? No. Out of fear, we will not be able to protect it. So Assad was going to fall, the shrine collapsed. This is where you brought Turkey.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0094par0025	And soon the AKP will be destroyed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0090par0026	Look, the last deal was on January 23, 2003, your government, the Mother Tutanak, who was signed in Ankara during the Justice and Development Party's government, in connection with the implementation of the Solomon Shah Turbage Research Project. Look, you've signed in 2003, so let's keep this Song of Solomon here, let's make it good, let's make it good, let's heal it. You couldn't even keep your own deal, let alone the treaty and the works of the republic. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0095par0029	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0096par0030	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0095par0031	It's going through the roughness, but history will write it as leaving the land of the state. That's the truth, and such shame will be a black page of our history.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0096par0032	In your group proposal, the speakers have already made their point.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0097par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0096par0034	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0097par0037	Thank you. Mr. President, an important matter is being discussed. In fact, the level of consideration of this important matter bothers us, so I have made a promise. We, in fact, have repeatedly stated that there have been serious errors in Turkey's policy on Syria and Rojava, and that these wrongs could lead to major catastrophes in Turkey. Unfortunately, Turkey had demonstrated the backbone of all Syrian policy through opposition to the achievements of ISIS, Al Nusra and other organisations. We told the canton administrations in Rojava, the PYD, that relations developed on the basis of hostility to YPG would not be in Turkey's best interest, that it would seriously threaten our peace both inside and outside. We've been confirmed. So it wasn't the administration in Rojava, but the gains in Rojava, which was dangerous to Turkey, but ISIS itself. The threat to the presence of the Turkish Armed Forces there came from ISIS, not from the PYD, or the canton administration. With these recent developments, we think that Turkey should enter a process of confrontation, making a fundamental decision on foreign policy. It doesn't matter if someone from here makes different definitions to the PYD and the YPG. The whole world is looking at a wild terror organization like ISIS as a force that protects the dignity of mankind; that's the way the world sees the PYD, YPG, YPJ, YPJ. If Turkey wants to establish the right Syrian policy, the right Middle Eastern policy, it has to accept that fact now, and according to this, it has to establish a foreign policy. Look, even the government of France, even the administration of France, today at Elysee Palace, feels the obligation to consult the future of the region with the YPG, the PYD authorities. So, for our country, giving land, using narrow approaches to land, I think it's better to focus on realistic foreign policy, not on some demagogues, but on the other side of the ground. We believe that the future of the peoples of Rojava, Syria, is shared, that their democratic future and lasting peace have passed through recognition of the will of the peoples. We want to express that the smartest thing Turkey will do is to get to know its cantonal governments and develop relations with those cantons as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0098par0044	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (24/2/2015), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. "If the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey says he is a victim, it must be taken seriously as a TBMM. Therefore, as of September 12th, 1980, the Council's proposal for parliamentary research, which was issued on 18/4/2013 to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (1848 rows) in an effort to investigate the victims of events that have occurred since today's September 12th, 1980 military intervention (1848 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 24/2/2015 and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilk is in favor of the Republican People's Party Group proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0099par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our group's proposal. I salute you all. However, after the speech I had taken off the agenda earlier today, we received more calls from our villagers and other citizens in particular. They said, "Tell us what we lack." In particular, the village of Kemah Montenegro -- our minister is also here -- they promised us when our trip would be done. They say. They say, "We are thirsty last year, and I hope this year it will not be a problem." The city of abyssin is also suffering from water shortages. The Tercan Watering Union, the Left Coast Watering Company, we can get a very simple 2km of water. They say, "They're asking for help from there." Let me get this out in the open. Of course, dear lawmakers, the subject of our motion is that the former Prime Minister, especially by bringing up the victim of the new President, has been a constant policy on this victim and I have always been a victim. It's a government that's been in power for 12 years, and how it's going to continue to be a constant victim, and we're having trouble understanding it. And, of course, when you're victimizing, because the perception management is so well done, it's like the victimization is right, and that's what gets you something, but it's probably society that loses. When we look at the globalization scheme, it's a game that capitalism, in particular, has proposed to get rid of the crisis they're in because of the narrowing down of the exploitation areas of large capital across the world. In fact, the constant crush of the working people, and as a result of that, capital being transformed into exploitation. During the period that began after September 12th, in Turkey, this was beautifully implemented and gradually advanced. For the AKP, this was a way of coming to power within this policy. When 1.5 million Muslims in Iraq were killed, when 150,000 Muslim women were raped, when they were cared for in Syria and looked at the situation in which ISIS came. Yeah, especially, they keep saying he's the victim of September 12th, but everyone knows they're not victims on September 12th. Because, as I just said, after September 12th, there was a government brought to power. The former Prime Minister, Mr. Erdogan, after serving four months in prison in particular, has repeatedly told honey and presented it as a great sacrifice. I wish he'd never gone to bed. No one wants that from the heart. Of course, in the process, we see the date of April 27th, especially the talks in Dolmabahçe with Yaşar Büyükanit, and how it was said to go together to the grave, and then how it was published and had a good perception management. Of course, the assassination of Mr. Bulent Arinc, but... then we see how the military became, how all the soldiers were sent to Silivri. And here was a result of the victimization. He has been especially silenced by the divisions that might already be against him. In the referendum on September 12, 2010, we will bring especially freedoms. 17th, 25th December: No one denies theft or corruption or bribery. Only what they're angry about, what they're victims of, are they victims of how to listen to a Prime Minister, a minister, and they bring their victims here. How can you listen to us? This is how they have been victimized and made this perception to society. One of the most important issues was the continuous mosque. Their lies. In the history of the Republic, we see that the most mosque destruction is during the Menderes era, and the second term is already under AKP government, and dozens of mosques have been destroyed to build the AVM. Of course, they drank alcohol in the mosque in particular. They drank alcohol to try to raise a bonus in the case. We see what happened to him despite the imam's lying, drinking. We see what happened to him, but that was used as a victim and tried to make politics again. Worst of all, they beat up our sister who could even lead this community to civil war, create polarization. Despite the evidence that this was a lie, they continued to be victimized over it again, creating a political bonus over it, never thinking about stretching society. Of course, the last, especially -- I really don't want to say this -- is the assassination of the President's daughter. On the other hand, you're turning around: interest lobby. Here, it's clear how much you paid for interest, over 600 billion. Especially the interest reduction of the Central Bank... you're the President, you're the head of this country, you're the head of this country, you're the President of the Central Bank -- he's probably not going to leave -- talk there in a private, secret room; talk about whether interest should be taken down; but shouldn't you go out in front of the media, especially, brushing, waving fingers at the dollar, where you throw it. You say you're a victim in the interest lobby, you say you're a victim in the dollar lobby, but you can't do that again. He calls it the outer altars. We couldn't find out who these outer altars were, of course. The incident with the blue marmara times, the,,,,,,, x), is all that's being done politically, but it's being totally victimized. They said the lobby of Israel, they received an engagement award from the Jews. In this period Israel and his trade with Israel made a great hill, and they broke a record. How do they prevent blankets, food, help from going to our Turkishmen brothers, especially after the capture of the MIT trucks? They said, whereas it turned out to be weapons going to ISIS, but they succeeded. The Mosul consulate is a disgrace. The hostages there at the consulate were told earlier that they had no personal security, but they were persistently continued, but it was later revealed who had been bargained with. It was as if they had been rescued, as if it were a big deal. The Suleiman Çelebi Temple, which was told earlier, which was particularly focused on...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0100par0080	Not the Çelebi of Solomon!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0101par0081	Suleiman Shah Temple.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0099par0082	Suleiman Shah Temple... unfortunately, whether you accept it or not, the land was lost for the first time in the world, and for the first time in the 90-year period, it was the first time in Turkey that the republic was lost. Now, I have a proposal here because the President in particular is given all kinds of titles. The victory of the Blue Marmara, the sacking of the soldier, the victory of the Musul consulate, was also triumphed, and finally the event in the Solomon Shah Turbage, which you call Shah Fırat, when we gather them all together, is passed by three hundred and three major battles! So my offer here, especially the title of marshal, is to be named marshal. Dear lawmakers, of course, here, especially when you're managing perception, you're actually in a position to stretch society. All kinds of media, especially ally media, are constantly pumping things and causing people to become unfortunately polarized. Everything in this country will come and go... we're discussing an internal security law right now. When we look at this law, it's obvious what the law will bring, but it's always used on television, especially in the media, in the Molotovkotaki, bonzai, Molotovkotaki. But yesterday, especially here, our proposal for that bonza, which you gave us, which is more serious than your motion, unfortunately, was rejected by your votes; it will be rejected when it is given about the Molotov cocktail, which will not be accepted. So, unfortunately, you're on the intimacy test, but you're doing a great sense management, so the work on that is good. It's not something that's just begun, but society is really getting really tense right now, and you're just going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and No matter what you say, everyone knows exactly how you got to the Solomon Shah Temple, even though the President's Secretary came out and told the PYD that it was a terrorist organization. And that land you're going to place the shrine in right now, it's a well owned land, and you haven't paid for it, so at least pay the man, and you put him there, but you know how you got there, you know what negotiations are made with ISIS, and now everyone knows it. So I don't think we should stress the country anymore, we're going to the election. I'm on my way to the election. Maybe we won't see each other anymore, so I say give him your blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0102par0087	Yes, thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Tunç, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0103par0091	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party, at the suggestion of the group, wants the motion on today's agenda to investigate how the Prime Minister, the current President, was victimised and who was victimised in the 1980 coup. Of course, we'd like our Republican People's Party spokesman to make some statements about his motion, but he gave a speech on the same issues we know. I'll talk to him about the motion. In 1990, the same, similar motion was made about our late President, Turgut Özal. At that time, the General Assembly did not bring up that research motion -- with the General Assembly's decision -- because there would be no political responsibility for a current President's previous role. We put that on the side. By the motion of investigation, you claim that Mr. President is not a victim of the coup process of September 12th. Mr. President was then the victim of both the coup attempt and the post-drug guardian system before the 12th September coup. He even had to finish regular high school after Imam-Hakip high school, where he was able to get into college after finishing two high schools. Mr. President was President of the Youth Corps of MSP Beyoglu in 1976. Until 1980, the MSP served as the province's mayor of the Youth Corps of Istanbul. The coup of September 12 also closed down the party of Mr. President as President of Youth Arms and prevented him from doing politics, as he closed down all parties. The coup d'état of September 12th didn't end in 1980, of course. BY 2002, the 1990s were the years of economic and political crisis, as well as the years of fundamental rights and freedoms. He was elected mayor of İstanbul Metropolitan in 1994, Mr. President. He was taken down from the mayor's office and put in prison for reading the poem of Ziya Gökalp, which was in the textbooks of the Ministry of National Education. In the process, the parties he was part of were closed one by one, while he served in the administration. Our nation's coefficient experienced injustices, headscarf problems, children, and family. He started a party in 2001, and two weeks later, he filed a closed-down suit against his party. In 2002, parliamentary candidacy was dropped at the EC PARTY, where he was president and founder. His party entered Parliament, but he remained outside antidemocratically. He later became Prime Minister, when he was developing solutions to the country's chronic problems, when he was resolving unresolved problems, he faced various coup attempts, April 27th declarations, and again faced the closure of the party in 2008. Travel events, Kobani provocations, have been subjected to operations on December 17, 25th. However, for twelve years in power, Turkey grew fourfold in the economy, raising the bar of democracy by overcoming both the coupist mentality, the guardian system, and all the obstacles set in front of it with the support of our nation. It was Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan who wiped out the scars of the coup on September 12th. The legacy of September 12 has been removed for the first time, as soon as it comes to duty, the AK PARTY. The obstacle to the trial of September 12 coupgers was lifted by changing the temporary 15th article of the Constitution. He ended the implementation of military members in public institutions and institutions, which were the product of the coup on September 12th. Turkish Armed Forces Civil Service Law, which was cited as grounds for the coups, was again changed during its time. The May 1st, Labor and Solidarity Day, which no government has achieved in years, has declared an official holiday. It allowed the intellectuals to return to our country, where the coup d'états of September 12 were banned from the dorm. The rights of those who have been denied citizenship have been restored. Again, with the support of the opposition, the Investigation Commission, which has carried out its most comprehensive work at this time, has made significant assessments. The party closures were difficult despite opposition's no-no vote. Military custody terminated. The structure of the national security committee has been civilized. The path of judgment has been opened against the High Military Government's decisions. The EMASIA Protocol was lifted during this period. The area of the military judiciary has been set in line with the principle of democratic law state. The victims of February 28th were given the opportunity to return to work. State security courts and then special authorities were removed during this period. Turkey's Human Rights Foundation was established, fundamental rights and freedoms expanded. For 13 years, our country has flourished in all areas, while democraticization moves have followed. There are important reforms in the domestic security package that we've been interviewing for over a week, and there are important arrangements to maintain the balance of freedom and security. These are regulations in accordance with our Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights. We're working to get these regulations legalized here. I wish the opposition parties would express their views on 132 articles here, positive or negative. It would be much better if they passed their righteous criticism and constructive criticism from their own windows to our citizens here. In any case, this substance is wrong, and our people have the opportunity to learn it from your window -- whatever window you're looking at -- here. I wish you could follow that method, but the opportunity didn't miss it, so we can make 132 articles here more mature together. It's a very important reform when we think about it in terms of the motion that the Gendarme's commitment to the Ministry of Interior again. A historic step is being taken, which will carry out this reform. Therefore, the Republican People's Party says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0104par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0105par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0104par0104	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0105par0105	Mr. President, the speaker has been taunted by the fact that the opposition regarding the domestic security law does not express its positive or negative views. I demand word on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0106par0106	Sir, we ask for the same reason, because he meant all the opposition parties.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0107par0107	Mr. President, we want it for the same reason.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0108par0108	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0109par0109	Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0108par0110	Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP... I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0110par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers of the Turkish nation, there is nothing to be concerned about what we think of this bill, and it's easy to reach. We shared our thoughts with clarity and with all our concerns, right after this bill was transferred to the Interior Commission. In this regard, there is no need to expect a contribution from the opposition. Besides, the opposition we added to both the lower commission report and the main Commission report on the bill has made our opinions very clear. We've expressed all of the defects that could have arisen at the point of law, both against the Constitution and other laws, and they're written, so the opposition's opinion is clear. But it's very controversial whether the ruling party really expects the opposition's opinion or not. For one thing, it has been stated here, under the roof of this House, that there are criminal tendencies for those who oppose this law. Those who oppose this law are traitors. The AKP has become deputy leader of the Group, and Prime Minister Davutoglu, the head of the Justice and Development Group, said: "We have waited two weeks for the opposition to tell us what they think. There has been no contact or appeal. So they're not all the right words, they're all words to deceive the public. Besides, not even the person who spoke on the general part of this bill on behalf of the AKP was able to hold onto it because he spoke on it for two minutes. At 01.44, he completed his speech at 01.46. There's a group of vice presidents who can't take care of their own party, who can't keep up with their government's bill, who are still wondering what we think. That's not the right approach. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0111par0119	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, and I promise you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0112par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we voted on two articles here in the middle of the night, and voted on by the participation of all political parties. Once again, we have agreed to vote for the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal to change one of the two articles. What was that arrangement? The punishment for the synthetic drug called Bonzai (Bonzai) was to be increased or used in the Turkish Penal Code; its use, its trade, its sale; its use, its use; its use; its use; its use; its use; its use; its use; its use; its sale. Rather positive, we had a motion as the Republican People's Party Group, which is to increase the sentence by half if these items are sold within 200 metres of areas such as schools, mosques, barracks. The resolution proposed by changing the sentence of 200 meters by 300 meters is increased by a proportional degree. This motion was not accepted. Mr. Davutoglu was challenging us, which is against the bonza. No, look, we agreed to a positive arrangement of four political parties. We've said it many times, and once again, if what you need is an arrangement for the Molotov, bring it in fast, you've passed these substances -- let's do that too, let's make it legal. If there are certain measures that the security forces need in the face of terrorism, bring them in, we can talk about them, we can legalize them, whatever the need is. But without a judge's decision, we search the town, its car, its belongings, and the police will lock up whoever they want, whoever's got his head blown off... for 48 hours. All of that, look, that's how much we've expressed in the Commission. There's no need to talk so long. If you want, you can come and take a few days off from this law -- today is the 8th day, it's progressing at an ant speed -- if you want, you can take a break from democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0113par0127	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Buldan, who...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0114par0129	Ertugrul Furci will speak.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0113par0130	Yes, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı, MP of Mersin for bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0115par0134	Mr. President, dear friends, it would have to be a total ignorance of his own to say that the opposition, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, in any way, has not expressed any opinion on the bill in favour or against it. When you open this book, you can see the objections, the motives, the objections that all party groups have made to this law, both in commissions and in lower commissions. All that matters is that what they say is to declare an audience is that you come to us and state your opinion, so that you may be punished for the fight against Terror, but not for seven years, but for six years. If you don't say so, you're not considered having an opinion. We've told them on commissions dozens of times. You wouldn't have done a European job when you took any of the substances in any state's penal code and brought them here. The most important thing you can endure are the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. All European states are being judged by citizens in this court, and still the penal laws of all states in Europe, police laws, are constantly changing by the standards of the ECHR. So you bring together the most backward laws of Europe against us, and you've uncovered a law on police duty and authority, you've uncovered a law on police education. We're not going to object to you, but we're going to talk to you in your language, but we're going to say: "Don't hit 10, hit 5." We say: "Don't hit anyone, brother, don't hit anyone; you've established a law on the rights of the people. You think it's impossible for the government to rule through violence, and we say it's impossible." Please learn to listen to this and read the texts you have.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0116par0139	Thank you. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP asking for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0117par0146	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to open a parliamentary investigation into the victims of today's President, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, given by the Republican People's Party. And on this occasion, I salute you all. First, I'd like to explain two things over here. First of all, the subject at the Solomon Shah Temple. Guys, two times two is four. It's a concept that has been expressed in mathematics for 2,000 years from the very beginning. You couldn't keep the grave of your ecclesiastical exhumation 90 kilometers away, where you had international agreements where the NYD would fight with the PYD, while we couldn't deal with them, so we could take them out of there and put them somewhere else. And you said, "Let's put it in an ISIS-style way, and you blew up the tomb of our victim, and then you took the tomb and brought it on the land that belonged to someone else near the borders of Turkey." I mean, does that make any sense? ▪ Running away is a victory. We fled with great courage, we were frightened, scared, and we came to the land of the sovereign state of the Republic of Turkey, where we came to the land of international agreements, and we put this shrine on an occupied land elsewhere. You say, "You come and defend it." You have to invite formal logic rules, I'll tell you that first. So, with the illusionist and the Rasputin model, it's like you're repeating it over and over and over again -- because you have a right to make a lot of promises -- you're trying to manipulate and enthrall public opinion. It's very visible, there's nothing controversial about it. On the other hand, as a member of the Interior Commission as a non-member of the domestic security package, when I joined there on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party, the minutes of my conversations there alone are 22 pages. I don't believe all the talks of Justice and Development Party MPs are 22 pages long. You'll see what they've got in there, who's been talking, what's been contributing, what's been brought in. Dear lawmakers, what we have to say about victims is that once victims are meant to be removed, victims don't exist to be abused. And I'll tell you this: it's a primitive attitude to do politics by exploiting the victim. The AKP mentality, which has not dropped its statement of victimhood, is a victim of lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The AKP uses the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda as a threat and blackmail tool. I'm here today as a mandatory 42-hour sleep-deprived MP because of the agenda you've brought in, the agenda you've imposed. I mean, the congressman has no right to talk about anything, a mindset that victimizes him.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0118par0151	Teacher, be quiet; don't shout; Teacher, you'll lose your health.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0117par0152	And you'll say, "Sir, we've been victims here, we've been victims here." For 42 hours, you'll keep me in this dress, you won't allow me to shave.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0118par0153	Why, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0117par0154	Recep, don't bother me where you're sitting, we're too close!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0119par0155	Recep, you've broken history!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0120par0156	Good heavens, Hajji, you've shaved!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0117par0157	Now, dear MPs, look, I'm being very sincere and very sincere. I'm talking to my hand, my arm, my brain, what I know and believe in. I'm not talking about anything I don't believe in. Look, the fact that lawmakers are held in Turkey's Grand National Assembly by morning affects everything from one, well, family structure to social life and human relationships. There is no need to be a priest to tell the public how to victimize a mindset that victimizes MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the AKP mentality is a government subject to victimism politics.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0121par0160	Never.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0117par0161	He's making himself a victim and he's complaining about being a victim. This is like the AKP beating and screaming, "I'm burned! In the political preferences of the public, there is an important place for victimism, happiness, and persecution. The political behaviour of the Turkish people is largely driven by feelings of victimism. There is no AKP on September 12, 1980. The victims of the coup were the archipelago and the revolutionaries, on the gallows. Dear lawmakers, the events of February 28th and April 27th are unclear, but the AKP is clearly macheted. The AKP is only exploiting the victim: my victim, victim, victim, victim, victim, victim, victim. Here is the AKP. The AKP has achieved serious gains through victimology literature. That's why he maintains his politics by building on victimism. The victimology literature, which began with a headscarf and an imam-gap, went on for a long time under the guardianship of coupgers and bureaucratic oligarchy. Then from the interest lobby, then as the victim of the missionary lobby, AKP power follows a policy that will make him feel sorry for himself. At the coming stage, the AKP considers itself a parallel victim. Victimship is fuel for paranoid AKP policy. The AKP parallels every political and social event that occurs. The AKP has developed a serious parallel paranoia. Erdogan says there is a parallel gang in the state, and the interesting thing is that he said to the people they described as parallel, "What did you want?" They don't even talk about paying for handing over the government. Yeah, we gave you a democratic, legal, constitutional state. You take me to the depths of that state, you leaked some gangs, and there's nothing you didn't say to that amendment when we opposed it, and then, after that, you say, "I burned God, parallel me, parallel me, parallel organization, parallel organization, listening to me, watching me, recording me." What right have you to talk? You have a duty to answer. Go out there and pay for this. The best account is that we can't manage the government, we resign. You're incompetent, incompetent, incompetent, you're you, you're... you're negative, and you're in a situation. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] The AKP has been in power for 12 years, but still thinks it is the opposition. Former AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan imprisoned dozens of people directly -- in his own words -- as a result of conspiracy -- and said that the people who were imprisoned in this prison were prosecutors. This was not enough, but it continued by exploiting the victims of dozens of people, not only for tapemakers, but also for those who wanted to design politics with tape. Dear MPs, the AKP has also victimised the Turkish nation for its culture of corruption and bribery. In 1831, those defeated by the United States senator in the Senate must withdraw from their duties. The spoils are the rights of those who win the war. The statement of the AKP is the basis of a spoils system. The spoils system simply means that civil servants are to be distributed as a reward for those who support political power and provide assistance, without the principles of merit, driver's license, expertise and equality. You know, you can look into the VIP torpedo system in this context. It is also an exemplary example of AKP's use of religion, state and morality. Rhubarb is for men. It separates the human from the inhuman. Man's weakness of faith begins with the loss of his sense of life and desire. In Asia Minor, the artery has been fractured. The developments following December 17, 25th corruption and bribery operations have caused serious trauma not only in the context of certain people, but also in the context of arising and living emotions in society. The details are for the corrupts, but the men have faced the Turkish nation with something worse than the crime. Time ran out. I just want to say, if there really is a victim, I think it would be helpful to open a congressional investigation to investigate this victim. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0122par0172	Yes, thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0123par0176	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On the group's proposal, the valued lawyer, Bart's MP Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç, has made a necessary, rational, satisfying statement, and I'm participating in all his statements. On the other hand, we've been interviewing Homeland Security package number 684 for about a week. The point we've come to is the 17th article. At this rate -- until 7/7 of the year -- the lists will be given to the YSK -- we're thinking of enforcing it with the support of the opposition, hopefully, but the point is that it's going to be a bit of a nuisance, but hopefully it'll have a sense of mind with the General Assembly, and I think it'll grow and it'll be legal, and it'll be really hard to run the MPs after 7 April. The commissions, on the other hand, are again under the law concerning certain parts of society, and they will be brought down to the General Assembly, God willing. What I'm saying is that we're going to legislate these as well, based on the needs of society. Therefore, I offer the request of the group's recommendation to the compliments of the General Assembly, and salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0124par0182	Thank you. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0125par0186	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0124par0187	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Önzacebi, Mr. Önüt, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Ayadil, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Danishoglu, Mr. Onur, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Tamayligil. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I propose that my original law proposal be taken directly into consideration because it is not discussed within 45 days of the commission. Yours truly. The bidder is Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0126par0208	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our proposal for the law is intended to benefit from a special-marked passport known as a green passport to the public, lawyers who have served as lawyers at a certain time. As we all know, being a lawyer is a public service, as well as a free profession. In the process of trial, defence is one of the most important elements, even the essential part of judgment. Therefore, the representatives of the defence, which is the basic process of trial, are lawyers. In fact, the development of democracy and law can be done because of lawyers, and given that international legal relations are growing today, lawyers often have to go abroad and deal with these legal discrepancies. Thus, it is not available to lawyers today, even though government officials who have completed a certain service period have taken advantage of the green passport, even though they have spent the full amount of time. It's a very serious lack of law, it's unfair. It is a great injustice that lawyers who show any sacrifice in order for justice to be done in Turkey and rule of law are not given a right to civil servants. Therefore, our proposal of the law, which has served for a period of time, requires the benefit of our friends who have served as lawyers for ten years. Ten years is an important time for law enforcement and the practice of law enforcement. Today it is known that ten years of lawyers in Turkey have entered international cases, tried to resolve international legal relations, and often went abroad. This also causes difficulties in the application. Sir, the Department of Foreign Affairs is full of this. So, let's not give everyone what we call a green passport, let's take it down a notch and give it to the lawyers. I mean, you give green passports to anyone who's ever served in a certain profession today, and you don't give them to them. On the other hand, there are foundation colleges, my dear friends. I mean, this law proposal is about lawyers. Ha, it's said: "Ya, ten years is very little, so let it be fifteen years." We have friends here who have been the head of the bar, both in the AKP and in the CHP and in the MHP. This is a serious matter, and I think lawyers should take it upon themselves. Although a large portion of Parliament is a lawyer, so far, our lawmakers of attorney's origin in this parliament have never owned their own professions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are MPs, but above all, we are lawyers. Therefore, solving the problem of lawyers is the primary duty of lawmakers of lawyer-based origin. On the other hand, I would like to point out that people who work at universities today as professors at foundation universities are working on a service contract for the status of a worker. However, even though they receive green passports at public universities, professors at the university of the foundation are having a hard time going abroad for scientific, academic studies. This is also a great injustice, inequality; I mean, he's a professor at the university of the foundation, and he's a professor at the university of the state, or a professor at the university. If they were both abroad for study in science, one would benefit from a normal passport, a gray passport, but the other one would benefit from a green passport, which would prevent scientific studies. With these two issues being considered together, I think this semester should be resolved. I think our proposal for this law on lawyers should be accepted by this great House. In particular, I wish that our colleagues of attorney-in-law within the AKP would now take care of their own professions and their own colleagues. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0127par0219	Mahmoud Tanal, who wants to speak on behalf of an MP? No. Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0128par0223	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the speaker who just spoke, have explained the reason for our proposal. Lawyering is an important profession, part of the defense, the judicial foot and the suspects, the judge, the prosecutor, the lawyer. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, lawyers, defenders in all modern societies are entitled to their rightful place and attention. In modern societies, lawyers are on the same plane as the prosecutor in the criminal trial. Not like we do, judge, prosecutor on top, lawyer down, not on the same platform as the defendants or the trustees. The D.A. is on the same plane as the lawyer, and the lawyers are on their defenses. Now, I think we need to solve this problem first in Turkey. The name of the bar comes from this plane, which means a platform where the prosecutor and the lawyer are on the same plane, the bar. However, we have always witnessed many problems in Turkey's practice -- as a brother of lawyer's origin -- in Turkey. It turns out we're going to face even more problems with this internal security package. Again, the point of the human rights plane in the world is not the protection of the state against the individual, but the protection of the individual against the state. The state's already protecting itself, but if something happens to the individual, that's the question. Now, with this domestic security package, a state in Turkey that now threatens all individuals will begin to implement extremely oppressive, threatening and intimidating practices. With this package, my dear friends will be declared a non-named martial law in Turkey. Without a verdict, the search is coming up with an arbitrary arrangement where the D.A. has been shut down, the governor's law enforcement has been ahead, and the search of the cars can be made. As a judge, a judge is appointed in Ankara. My dear friends, in such a painting now, it will increase more than ever the need for governors to be allowed to detain the governors, the governors, and the authorities to transfer the property to the prosecutor, and to position the prosecutor in the investigation. In the environment where the governor's law enforcement is leading the law enforcement force under threat to all 77 million of our people at this moment, the attorney, the judge, and, in particular, the prosecutor has been eliminated. We're on our way to a very bad painting. Look in this grave painting, in the rule of the Republican People's Party, we've brought in the obligation of everyone to have a lawyer in the interrogation phase to start in custody. The person was assured that if he didn't have a lawyer, he'd be brought back from the bar with a lawyer in law enforcement, a prosecutor's office, a lawyer in court. Now, it's very important to lawyers and the practice of law enforcement that takes all of these assurances away from us and the prosecutor, but there won't be an environment for lawyers to continue their profession. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, will Turkey go its way with democracy, go its way with human rights, go its way with respect to human rights, carry out the rule of law, strengthen the defence, protect the victims, protect the individual, or strengthen the authoritarian, totalitarian structure of the state? Turkey is at a crossroads. And with this bill, we're bringing a green passport to our extremely difficult-working colleagues. But, of course, that's not enough. It should be our duty to further strengthen the practice of law enforcement, the governor, the governor, the magistrates, the prosecutors, to make it more competent, to ensure that each stage of the investigation the lawyer is placed without exception and very strong. It is clear that we cannot carry out the internal security package that avoids the judiciary and especially the defence. Therefore, when the road is near, I greet you with love, with respect.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0129par0231	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0130par0234	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit05spe0129par0235	I will submit the motion to your votes. There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Önzacebi, Mr. Tüğün, Mr. Tuğüy, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Tamaylıgil and Mr. Haberal. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Hatay MP Hacı Bayram Türkoglu has been nominated for one membership in the Justice and Development Party Group that has been divorced in the Interior Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a break from the merger until an hour, 8:45.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, according to Article 58 of the Interior Charter, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan has a request to correct the statement in the last joint report. Later, Mr. Baluken, Mr. Furkci, Mr. Zozani and Mr. Çelik have requested, but Mr. Vural had first asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0131par0007	Mr. President, there's just been word on the news that two F16 planes have crashed, one of the four pilots have been killed. Some websites also show that military helicopters have fallen. Can the government give us any information on what's going on here? If such a thing has happened, I ask God's mercy for our martyrs. Hopefully, our unaccounted pilots will be found safely. In this regard, I urge the government to share such an important matter with Parliament if it has any information. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0129par0009	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0132par0012	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, unfortunately, we lost contact and were not heard from any of our two fighter planes leaving Malatya this afternoon. But, right now, our commanding officer has arrived at the scene, and he's just started reporting from there. We're expecting a full report from there as we speak. In that regard, we have information that has reached me, that 2 of our pilots have been martyred, and that 2 of the other two have not yet been known, but will be available very quickly. Our Joint Chiefs will send us information when it's clear. Then I'll present more detailed and specific information to our General Assembly. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs, my condolences to his relatives. I'm sorry about our nation, our House. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0133par0015	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy on the martyrs, and for the sake of their relatives. Hopefully, there will be other pilots. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0134par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our pilots who were killed in the military helicopter that fell in Malatya, and for the healing of our wounded soldiers. My condolences and patience to their families and their comrades. Again, once again, I ask God's mercy to Sergeant Major Halit Avcı, who was a martyr during the transport of the outpost at Süleyman Shah Temple. My condolences to his family, his comrades, his relatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0135par0026	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0136par0029	Mr. President, we've been following the press, and the press has reported that 1 is a martyr, but Mr. Secretary has reported that number. It's a really sad event. I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who died in this fallen military helicopter, and also to the wounded who died during the transfer of the Shah Temple of Solomon, and to God's mercy and to his family. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0135par0031	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0137par0033	Mr. President, thank you very much. We too have just learned from the news that he fell during the training flight, and we ask for the blessings of our fallen pilots, who have just died because of this accident, which our Minister has given us confirmation of. Of course, the fire burns where it fell, and we offer our condolences to their families. I wish our nation's head and our nation to protect the Turkish Armed Forces from such accidents. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0138par0037	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0139par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to express our regret over the incident in Malatya. We offer God's mercy to the people who lost their lives, and our condolences to their families and to all the peoples of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0140par0043	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, you have a request for a correction according to Article 58 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0141par0048	Mr. President, I'd like to correct my motion to the presidency at two points. One is referred to as page 60, which may be a draft, where the truth is found. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man When a criticism is being made, it's more like a concept we think of as a two-legged concept. For him, I think he should be removed. I thought you hurt animal rights advocates. In other words, Mr. President, it's a very serious matter, so I've always questioned myself because I've read the Deputy President's words, his statements, and how does that happen? The concepts for a group of vice presidents are very heavy, you're a bastard, you're a traitor, 4-5 concepts are in two different places. I'm sorry. It's unacceptable for a woman acting as a deputy president to take part in a report on the Council of Parliament. So I repeated it, and I noticed that maybe it would heal itself, call for themselves, make a statement about the report, correct it. I also saw that it wasn't there until now. I, for one, want what I read from those transcripts out of the transcript, and, of course, I'm calling it in. Whatever the reason, no matter what environment, no matter what psychology, he has no right to say that to the Council of Parliament. I demand that this be corrected, removed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0140par0050	Yes, thank you. Mr. Baluken, you are required to correct again under Article 58. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0142par0054	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've had a statement in the report about last session that has not opposed the Republican People's Party (x), which needs to be corrected. Of course, I'm the Deputy Group President of the People's Democratic Party. I have pointed out a criticism to a institutional party such as CHP, not to resist, but not to make an effective and results-taking opposition, but to report in this way, there is a different understanding. So it's obvious that CHP is not actively opposed. So far, there's not just any opposition to the President or the Prime Minister. Turkey -- I told you yesterday -- there are all kinds of conditions for a social democratic party to come to power; hunger, poverty, unemployment, corruption, war, casualties, everything -- but there is no social democratic party in power. The AKP has been in power for thirteen years, so we think it should be the CHP's own criticism of the lack of effective and active opposition, the failure to produce solution projects. And yesterday, in this context, I made my point, so we usually follow group meetings on Tuesdays. A whole group meeting said that, the president said that. If it goes through, if it goes through, we've done nothing in this country but serve the power of the AKP. The task of all of us, the opposition parties, is to produce solution projects for Turkey's most fundamental issues. We think we should introduce ourselves to our people with solutions to the Kurdish issue, the issue of democracy, unemployment, education, health policies. So, I think my criticism yesterday should also be discussed in this framework, and I would like to request that the transcripts be corrected this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0143par0060	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0144par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0143par0063	Wait a second, let me promise Mr. Furcier. We have, I promise you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0145par0065	Mr. President, my dear friends, after yesterday's debate, I've reviewed the transcripts, and according to these reports here, I've actually entered an assessment of other opposition parties while arguing about the law clause. In this framework, I see that I do not see the objections of our opposition parties under the circumstances. I'd expect the Republican People's Party MPs to conduct a much more aggressive and harsh opposition on this particular issue, but in the end, it's left to us as victims of this process. Now, of course, this statement is a little harsh, given the debate that's actually been going on in the House for four days. That's why I want these reports corrected. I'll talk to the table about how to fix it, but not this hard. Although I do know that I put everyone in the same cup when I said the parties. Some criticisms, in fact, would be more appropriate for the CHP to separate some criticisms from the DP, but I still saw a need to correct them here, and I wanted to share them with the Parliament and your presidency. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0143par0068	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Sky, you asked for a word, what is it for, sir?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0146par0070	Both speakers accused our party of not being effective opposition, and I want to answer them.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0147par0071	Mayor, we can't hear.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0143par0072	What did he say, Mr. Gök?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0146par0073	Sir, both speakers have expressed that we can't make effective opposition, that we can't cause a social-democratic party in power.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0143par0074	Here you go, Mr. Sky, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0146par0078	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have just expressed in the speech of Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Leader Mr. Idris Baluken and Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu that the Republican People's Party could not have an effective opposition and that there should be a social democratic party in power, but we have caused the AKP to come to power.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0148par0079	You're supposed to have two words.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0146par0080	Since its establishment, the Republican People's Party is a party in Turkey that has signed important works since the establishment of modern democracy in Turkey, the progress of women's rights, labour rights, industrialisation, the establishment of the equality of opportunity, the end of the gap between regions, the preservation of the secular republic. With the number of lawmakers we have, we are trying to ensure that the Constitutional Court shall be audited, not only in our own way, but also in the name of the MP and HDP, and in the name of the entire nation. Therefore, both politically and legally, the Republican People's Party has carried out its mandate. From now on, all parties will witness how the Republican People's Party will form a social democratic power on June 7th. That's why I refuse to pick on you, and I salute you with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0148par0083	He picked on me by refusing, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0149par0084	Yes, thank you. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP, you had to correct according to Article 58 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0150par0089	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I didn't really take that word for time. And I really want you to believe the words I'm going to say from here. We've had heated arguments here for about ten days, we've been beating each other up, and from time to time, we've been talking out of context to each other, and it's all in the nature of the job. I have a promise here that I'd like to fix my share, and I want it removed, and I'll leave the rest to what everyone says. Now, when I took a word from here yesterday, two members of the ruling party MP's office accused me of lying. One was Mr. Recep Special, one was Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. I've given you an unbecoming response, so let me put it this way. So -- and yesterday the microphone came out too -- I'm going to eat that microphone! I'd like to get it out of the transcripts. It was wrong, it's beyond purpose, let me put it to you as a friend. Dear friends, look, everyone's in a bad mood, everyone's tired. I have a proposal for the ruling party MPs, the group's vice presidents. Come, look, there's a more important bill waiting. Yeah, I don't want to say that a bill is more important than a bill, but you have a bag of law proposals about the establishment of a university. The university is being established, and the Greens and the Reds are being arranged. I suggest to all the members of the group, come and hold a meeting, this meeting, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, this bag code... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let's bring it to the General Assembly of Parliament, discuss issues related to the founding of the university, so that we can take a break from this law that leads to tension and disorientation of our psychology. Sooner or later, tomorrow or the day after, you have to answer the gene.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0151par0096	Mr. President, could you give him a half-minute more, so he can get his words straight?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0150par0097	Mr. President, it's important...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0152par0098	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0150par0099	Mr. President, at least they're hearing friends, and I beg your pardon. And let me put it this way: you have to raise the gene in front of you tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This is how it goes this week. As of next Tuesday, after full consultations have been conducted within a week, the government, at least the Commission, will consider the entry of the bill in the future a little bit more rationally, and we can continue the discussion of this bill starting next Tuesday, but I suggest we at least give ourselves a week's time. That's what we propose to my group, to the National Movement Party Group, to the Republican People's Party Group, and to the ruling party.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit06spe0152par0102	Mr. Zozani, thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents to see you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, in accordance with Article 58 of the Civil Code, Mud MP Demir Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0153par0005	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in my speech on the research proposal of our group in the 62nd Union of February 23rd, the police's duties, responsibility and rights are sufficient, although to emphasize the antidemocraticity of the existing law, which recognises the authority to seize the freedoms of society, the rights to which the 3rd paragraph of page 1 has been passed in the last sentence. I made a promise to fix it. On this occasion, I would like to say that this law, which was the product and work of the Law on Police Duty and Salahim, was introduced years ago in order to take away our freedoms, our peace, and that it was not in harmony with the spirit and understanding of democratic solutions and rights violations of the government's efforts towards new extortion and rights violations, especially not in harmony with the norm of a peaceful, democratic law state. But it seems that the fact that the 100-year-old republic has not been able to solve the Kurdish problem, the identity, the ethnic and gender-based problems such as the Alevi problem, that many political parties, particularly the National Movement Party, still have the right to remain at a point where the actor can't recover from security perception and understanding based on the solution of the problem, which the state has not been able to save itself from the mission that has been set up for the kingdom of the state, that the AKP's power seems to turn it into an opportunity, and every day it feels that it deserves to stand in a place where our peace is stolen from the gas.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0152par0008	Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary will inform the Grand National Assembly of the plane crash. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0154par0013	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, the wreckage of both our planes has been reached. Unfortunately, we have four martyrs. F4 Phantom flights are all two. I ask for the mercy of our martyrs, and my condolences to his family, to our nation, and to our great Assembly. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0155par0015	Mr. Secretary, is there any information on the cause of the accident?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0156par0016	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0154par0017	Mr. Congressman, after the accident report, the exact cause can be explained, which is not possible at the moment, but Turkey is within the Malatya borders, Akçadağ position. Of course, we have predictions that there's a very good chance that they might bump into each other or the weather. There's nothing out there for him. In that sense, it was within Malatya borders, two planes...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0157par0018	The number of martyrs is 2?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0158par0019	The number of martyrs has been reached. Both plane wrecks have been reached. Unfortunately, all four of our pilots were martyrs. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0159par0020	Thank you. Mr. Gür, don't mind if I do.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0160par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, we offer our condolences to those who lost their lives in this accident, and to their families, and to their loved ones, our condolences. Mr. President, in yesterday's talks, a mistake occurred on page 14 of the 62nd Union -- when I read it. I want to fix him so I don't have to stand for misunderstandings. The area prepared for the village of Cobani and the shrine where Solomon Shah Turbage was carried is, of course, within the borders of Kobani, where Kobani is, under the control of the government of Kobani and the canton. The land there is also the subject of private property. A Syrian citizen there -- Kurd -- owns that land. I'd like to present this to the General Assembly. Again, I mentioned local forces there. In fact, the intention here was that the YPG/YPJ Kobani did not single-handedly oppose the six-month resistance to the DEVIL, and of course, the OSO forces crossed and fought there, and some of the other local groups in Syria, the liberal groups, and those who fought against the EPAS and those who opposed the Assat regime took their place in this fight. Thus, I stressed that these powers were also informed and contributed to the coming and coming to this Solomon Shah shrine and should not be ignored. Therefore, I wish that these words of the 62nd Unity, mentioned on page 14, would be corrected and included in the report. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0161par0031	Thank you. Now, Alderman Lütfü Türkkan, you have a request to correct. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0162par0035	Mr. President, during yesterday's General Assembly, when the domestic security package was discussed, I had a definition of Hitler's law regarding this law. I don't think it would be appropriate for a law passed in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to be considered Hitler's law, of course, but what we've been going through for days has also happened in Germany on March 23, 1933, which reminds me of them. At this time, a law was drafted in Germany, whose name was,,,,,,, and the removal of the troubles in the people and Germany. NSDAP also used all the gaps in democracy, just like today, to take over all the powers in Germany, along with this law. With this law, all the powers of Reichstag, the German Parliament at the time, were handed over to the Nazi Cabinet for four years, and their work was suspended during that time. In order for such a law to be passed, there would have to be a two-thirds majority in the Parliament that day. Fascist Hitler took precautions of that too, and he had 81 MPs taken into custody before this law was negotiated. I mean, these reports still exist in the Nürnberg Criminal Court of Justice. Hitler, who received 43 per cent of the vote with incredible financial support and propaganda at that time, surrounded Parliament with such manipulations. The German people later paid dearly for Hitler's actions. With a fascist dictatorial regime, Hitler put the German people through a great deal of persecution. What happened in Germany on March 23, 1933 reminded us of what happened in this Parliament. So it was a definition that maybe the House didn't deserve, but in the circumstances of that day and still going on, that's what I described. I would like to propose that my definition be removed from the Parliamentary General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0163par0040	Thank you. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP, you have a request for correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0164par0045	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask for God's mercy on our pilots who were killed in the plane crash. I pray to God that there will be no more accidents like this. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised that a word I said yesterday at the hearing could lead to misunderstandings. Here, whatever law you need to fight terrorism, bring it here. Let's do it here. It's been said, let's observe it wrong. Bring it here, let's unify it. I demand that it be corrected in the form of a hand. I'd also like to point out that it's obviously not a study of internal security with the law being brought in. Unfortunately, he supports the National Party of Action, especially Mr. Prime Minister. Like, he supports the Bonzai. Like, ▪ Molotofa, there were statements like...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0165par0048	They don't know.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0164par0049	Now, the Prime Minister who used these statements -- who did this at the mayors' meeting -- I'm guessing he owes an apology to the National Movement Party. And the laws you have brought here are not the anti-terrorism law, but you have no intention of fighting terrorism. A government that wants to fight terrorism doesn't first sit down with a terrorist organization. It's not right to expect security laws from an understanding that negotiates with a terrorist leader responsible for the murder of 35,000 people. I don't think you should be here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I want to point out that you're looking for a way to save their future in an environment where people are afraid of the sound of their voices and look huge.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0166par0054	Thank you. Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0167par0059	Mr. President, in my speech here yesterday, I called the name of AKP Deputy Leader Mustafa Elitas (Administrator of the AKP), "Mustafa Delitas" (Administrator of Justice and Development Party). That's what the reports say, and I recommend that this be removed. Of course, the fact that the AKP government makes the working conditions so intense, that there is actually no healthy discussion environment, that there is constant fighting, that there is constant noise, that the Civil Code and the law are constantly being violated, and that there is a slip of the tongue. I think it should be taken off the record, since I don't fit that word into our politics as a woman, as a woman, as a woman. Dear friends, seriously, we've been here for days expressing our opposition to the internal security bill. Not just us, but everyone on the street, the lawyers, the ecology fighters, the women's struggles, the representatives of political parties, insist on withdrawing this law. What we need is not the domestic security law, but the law of freedoms. Today, dear friends, there is serious chaos in Turkey. We've been talking about chaos in the Middle East for a few days, what happened in Syria, what happened in Kobani, and there may be serious chaos in Turkey. The basic solution is the democratic and peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem. In this regard, the AKP government is discussing how we can make nationalism, racism a law, instead of starting negotiations, discussing the peace law here, discussing the solution, discussing how we peoples can live together. We call on the AKP government from here once again: we have an election ahead of us. In this election process, you will be buried in the chest by the politics you've always called your name, but you insist on being unresolved. Come back when the road is near, give it up, withdraw the Homeland Security bill. What you have to do is bring the law of peace here. Then you will see how we support you, because the interests of our people are at peace. I say, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0168par0064	Thank you. Mr. Erkan Akçay, please. You have a demand to be corrected according to Article 58.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0169par0068	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, have been in need of correcting certain speeches, due to long hours of busy talks and debates. In one of my speeches, I have a phrase in which I would say the pointy tip of our party's compass when I try to demonstrate the policies, lines, principles, and policy of the National Movement Party; I feel the need to change it to the pointy tip of our party's compass, or to change it to the pointy tip of our compass. You know, the pointy tip of the compass, as the Holy Master puts it, is the center of life, politics, understanding, mentality. On this occasion, I would like to express that this is a statement from various party speakers regarding the policies of the Nationalist Action Party over the days that I would like to say that no one should try to direct the National Movement Party. For forty-six years we have maintained the primordial, responsible and problem-solving politics of Turkish political life, as we have in opposition, in power and in the past, in the rule of the National Party of Action. Of course, since we're seeing each other, it's a matter of security, safety issues, evaluations, weights. However, we will continue to talk about the policies of justice and prosperity that the National Movement Party expects of citizens in state and public life in the first place from the state -- without security, there is no freedom -- without security. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0170par0074	Yes, thank you. Mr. Charik, I understand you have a request for a statement due to the plane crash. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0171par0079	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, we have learned that two planes from Erhaç Airport in Malatya have taken off and, unfortunately, two of our planes have fallen at around 8:00 p.m. We've been informed that four of our heroic pilots are martyrs. Both our Malatya governor and our national defence minister and our Home Secretary have followed the matter closely, and four of our fallen soldiers have been reached as a result of search and rescue efforts. I offer my condolences and ask for God's mercy. My condolences on the loss of our country, my condolences on the loss of our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0172par0082	Mr. President, shouldn't the representatives of the government be responding?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0173par0083	Mr. Honey, you have a voice request. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0174par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. It upsets us all that two of our planes crashed in Malatya and four of our soldiers were martyrs. Because of this incident, the people I've appealed to have said that the ability to fly automaticly is extremely unlikely to collide because of their ability to fly side by side, their distances to each other are set automatically in an electronic environment, and their altitudes are set so that one of them can't hit the other. We'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary could explain to us what might be out of the question. Otherwise, in situations like this, doubt leads to gossip, gossip leads to temptation. So there could be people talking about chips and stuff that were put in the planes. So I'd like to ask him to be specific and detailed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0173par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0175par0089	Mr. President, the previous...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0173par0090	One moment, Mr. Light. Mr. Original, here's the last word.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0176par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish God's mercy and condolences to our pilots who were killed on the plane that crashed in Malatya, but we have some doubts as well. Mr. Secretary, is there any information as to whether or not these planes have been hit by any outside interference in the form of anti-aircraft or guided missiles? If that's the case, it's a very grave situation, so our country is being dragged into another event. Two: Does he have any contact with the radar base in this Globekic? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0098	Mr. Light, you have a request.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0178par0099	Mr. President, I had a request yesterday to correct my speech in the merger the other day; you didn't promise, I have a request to correct it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0100	No, it's not that I didn't promise, Mr. Light, you don't have a speech. His records...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0178par0101	I was promised my place.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0102	No... you have to speak from your place, from your seat.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0179par0103	Mr. President, Beyan." he says.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0104	The transcripts are out of the question, and I didn't promise anything.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0179par0105	There's no record?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0180par0106	I talked to him from where I was sitting.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0107	It's not in the report, sir. He says it's the way he talks from where he sits, not in the report.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0180par0108	I don't want him to get...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0109	He doesn't talk in the report. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions or audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0181par0121	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0122	We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Al-Seconditional Law, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Order for Humanitance; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul's Proposal Çağişdeşdeşdeşimation on Peace and the Law on the Laws Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanment; We will Proposition to Bene on the Law on the Law on the Law; We shall Propose to Bene of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and the Peace and the Law on the Law on Peace of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; Wed on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human.; Wed.; We shall of Peace and the Law. of Peace and the Law on Human. of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace and the Law on Peace of Peace and the Law on Human. The commission and the government are in place. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the proposal issued by Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan was not accepted on Article 1 of the 17th Article of the draft law, which was considered the main law. Now, I'm going to read and process the other two motions.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0135	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0136	What do you want, sir?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0137	I had a request, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0138	Let me get this straight. How did the request begin, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0140	No, I wanted it before I went on the bill. We'd like to express an objection to him.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0141	When did you ask for it, Mr. Baluken? And I'll give you my word...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0142	You told me: let me finish this sentence, and then I'll promise.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0143	No, that's out of the question, as far as I can remember.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0144	How can you not remember?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0145	I mean, we promised as much as you wanted. I mean, we've already made a request to fix it, but then I don't remember the promise, so that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0146	No, before we go into the bill, there's an objection that we made yesterday...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0177par0147	What's the objection?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0148	...there's supposed to be an explanation that you have to share with us today. We filed certain objections yesterday regarding the hearing on February 21st. In the hearing on February 21st, we stated that the Deputy Speaker of Parliament did not conduct the session correctly, that he did not respond to enough numbers and roll call requests, so that some of the articles in this bill should be ignored. So, in the name of the National Movement Party, the group's deputy president says, "Is there enough to decide?" He asks, "Yes, the decision is enough," says the group's deputy president. The president is going straight to the vote without calling the number of decisions. In this way, we have identified errors in the situation of the disputed 3-4, and according to Article 13 of the Civil Code, the President can open a formal meeting and correct it by applying for a vote if necessary, if it is alleged that there has been a significant error in voting and elections in the General Assembly. If the error is discovered after the merger, the Speaker will decide the way to follow by gathering the Court. We spoke in the back room, and I believe we spoke at your meeting. We've submitted our request that the Speaker of Parliament meet with the Court on this matter and eliminate the conflict over these articles, that talks on these ineffective items should be repeated. You have told us that the Speaker of Parliament is in Canada, and that the Council of Parliament will not be in the position of meeting physically at the moment, but that the outcome will be shared with you as soon as possible. Now, here's the situation: Without any clarity on the 2nd article, without a decision, the General Assembly debates the 12th article, discussing the 17th article. Such a procedure is not appropriate during law negotiations. So, normally, when we're discussing a bill of law, we can't actually discuss Article 17 if we can't discuss Article 2 with each other, we can't really discuss Article 17 until we're clear about Article 2 of Article 2. That's the first thing.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0152	Yeah...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0153	And the second thing is, did the Speaker of the House agree to make a decision about mistakes by gathering the Court? If he's made the decision, we specifically want you to share it with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0154	Yes, thank you. Mr. Kaplan has already applied for the Speakership. That was discussed yesterday, sir. Regarding these objections, a study has been launched by the departments of our presidency to compare reports and camera footage. After the results of this study are evaluated by our presidency, the proceedings will be carried out under Article 13 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0156	When will he be evaluated, when the bill is over?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0157	Sir, the House President is continuing his work.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0158	Mr. President, right now, item 1...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0159	Mr. Baluken, we talked about this yesterday, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0160	...the 2nd article, the 3rd article, the irregular procedure, the irregular procedure.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0161	I'm saying we talked about this yesterday.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0182par0162	No, it's a big deal. What was our deal?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0163	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0184par0164	Mr. President, yesterday we submitted our applications to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so we submitted them to the Court.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0165	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0184par0166	Have these applications been delivered to the Speaker by the Court?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0167	Mr. Kaplan, we've already told the Speaker... that during the speech yesterday, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0185par0168	Answer the question.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0184par0169	I've given the Court everything I've ever signed, anything that's against the rules. Is the Court...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0170	Mr. Vural, anything written to the Speaker of Parliament will go to the Speaker. Your diva is also...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0184par0171	Mr. President, I'm saying something.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0172	Yes, I'm listening to what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0186par0173	You listen and you don't answer.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0184par0174	We're writing the motion here to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so we're writing the motions to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I take it you're not sending these to the Speaker. I say, are these transactions, these applications, just left on the Court, sent to the Speaker to be carried out? That's all I want to know.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0175	Okay.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0186par0176	He doesn't know!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0177	No, we know, we don't, that's another matter, but we discussed it yesterday, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0186par0178	Answer me, then.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0179	We discussed it yesterday, sir. He's been assigned to the Speaker, and he's still working.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0187par0180	No, we had an argument, and there's no attitude in the way we agreed, that's what we're trying to say.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0181	Now I'm going to read the other motion and process it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0187par0182	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0188par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0184	The matter is closed, sir. We talked about this yesterday. The motion process...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0189par0186	No, no, you can't pass now.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0187	How could I not? We spoke yesterday, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0189par0188	We are now discussing Article 17 of Article 2 without a motion on Article 3 of Article 3.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0189	I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law on Police Duty and Equality, the Police Agency, the Law on Duty and Authority, the Law on Population Services and Some Laws and Laws to Change Decisions" 17. We propose and propose that the last sentence added to Article 13 of Article III of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Erdoğan D. Ali Torlak Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut S. Nevzat Korkmaz Münir Kutluata "there are no statute of limitations against the demands of Rucu under this law." The 17th Bill of Law, which is currently in session, is 684 rows. md. The change in the following form of supply and proposals is made; the state gives the Minister of Interior, who caused the development of the incidents due to this damage. Haydar Akar Fatma Nur Serker Attila Kart Binnaz Earth Ali Riza Özturk Ali Özgundüz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0190par0204	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0205	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0191par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0183par0207	Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0192par0210	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about our motion on the 17th Amendment. It's about the statute of limitations that will take place there after the state has compensated for the damage done in some cases. So, it regulates the statute of limitations and regulates the statute of limitations twice as long as the state is going to take from individuals. Now, in private law, there is a statute of limitations in the Law of Debts. The statute of limitations of wrongful verbs is from one to ten years. So, from the date of the birth of the wrongful verb, a year ends in ten years, either way. I mean, a year from the date of learning, ten years from the date of the event. Now, it is against the basic principles of the law to change such a fundamental rule of private law in such a way that the state will take away this statute of limitations, and to make it superior to what the individual will receive, according to what the citizen will receive. Therefore, we ask that this clause be removed from the bill. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that this package, called the internal security package, is the argument for the organisation of a fascist state. Whatever it means in the Nazi Parliament in Germany on March 23, 1933, the week of the meeting of this law is also the date of which it represents it for the Turkish Parliament. Now, especially after Mr. Efkan Ala had been appointed Minister of Interior, there were more strict, more violent, more oppressive laws laid down. We see that the Justice and Development Party is driven by its liberal understanding, driven by oppression and violence. Because the Justice and Development Party makes laws of its own fascist order to continue its rule, to break the social opposition against it, to suppress it with blood, violence, guns, tanks, rifles. In fact, there is a special meaning for Efkan Ala (Afkan) to be made Minister of Interior from outside while there are 300-some AKP MPs. Today, Efkan Ala was brought here on a special mission when there were a lot of people in the Justice and Development Party who served as police chief, who were governors, and who were able to do so; he was brought here on the outside, not elected by the nation, and since the day he arrived, he has adopted pressure, violence, and terror as a method. Former Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin said that while reducing the amount and scope of punishments in the Law on Meetings and Show Marches in the past, the idea of punishing the criminal and exclusion in the former sense of justice, the understanding of reforming and restoring the criminal to the community in modern criminal justice arises. (With this package, the political government adopted the old understanding of law, the old understanding of punishment, the primitive concept of punishment. This domestic security package is the roof of the organisation of a fully fascist state. Therefore, it is their primary duty to oppose this package of patriots, all revolutionaries, those who favor democracy, those who favor freedom. Therefore, three opposition parties have been resisting this package, the Council of Europe has reacted violently to this package, but our arrangement is in line with European standards. I understand that Internal Affairs has strayed from the understanding of the state of law, in search of ways and methods of creating a fascist state. If they could, they'd give it to the governors and the governors. We will never be able to accept this, and this package must be withdrawn immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0193par0218	Yes, thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current law on police duty and integrity, the Police Agency, the Law on Duty and Authority, the Law on Population Services and some Laws and Laws shall be made to change the provisions of the Law. We propose and propose that the last sentence added to Article 13 of Article III of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends "There are no statute of limitations against the demands of Rucu under this law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0194par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0193par0227	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0195par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0193par0229	Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya, who wants a word on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0196par0232	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. First, I wish God's mercy to four of our fallen pilots, and my condolences to our nation. It makes a lot of sense that our two fighter planes have crashed, especially now that they're much more meaningful, so I'm going to say that the reviews have to be done in a very serious hurry and the public needs to be enlightened. Dear lawmakers, I have made a deal with you on the basis of our motion on Article 17 of this bill, which we are discussing in the 684 rows. To draw your attention to the importance of this bill, I'd like to touch a few sentences to the AKP administration's process of making law. Indeed, for twelve and a half years, whenever Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been working until morning, whenever it's been busy late at night, we have observed that laws against the destruction of the state of law have been passed against the Turkish nation. It's a constant determination, there's no exception. In that sense, this bill is one of them. During that time, we see the destruction of the state of law within twelve and a half years, the formation of the party state, or rather the steps taken towards Turkey's return to a tribal state have become extraordinarily urgent and much more destructive since December 17th and 25th. On December 17th and December 25th, we have seen the Turkish legal system and the Turkish state daggered today in panic since the government saw the state breathing on December 17th and 25th, who thought it had blocked, blocked, made a party state in parallel with it. This law, this dagger, is one of the laws, is a step forward in the process of panic. What were the others? This was the law of armor that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors could not be judged by public officials who were forced to cooperate with the PKK; this was the law that the Court of Judges and Prosecutors should be seized and given to party control; this was the law that the high courts should be increased, diluted, and divided; this was the law that would allow a very important organization, such as the National Intelligence Agency, to be used for special purposes. And in this direction, developments have finally brought Turkey to the point where it will break the law. Both the work process and the fact that it came after these laws have now made our concerns serious. Dear lawmakers, while my time is very short, another issue I can't pass without contact with is that Turkey is suffering from massive scandals caused by power worldwide. The last tremor, the last scandal, the fact that two days ago, we left a homeland land and had an incident where we were humiliated to the world. Now, I'd like to ask you from here. The abandonment of a homeland... 39 tanks, 57 armored vehicles, 572 soldiers and a homeland land, is that a defense? I present this to the attention of our nation. To humiliate Turkey this much, to leave 39 tanks, 57 armored vehicles, 572 soldiers in peace to defend the land.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0197par0238	The one he used to evacuate 39 soldiers...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0196par0239	If they were going to run away, if they couldn't do it without running away, if they could digest such an image, there was no harm in doing so with the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. Do you realize that they have invented and have done it, the bones, the body, and the grave of one of our forefathers, our great ancestors? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to bring it to a place controlled by the terrorist organization. Most importantly, the most painful of all is that the National Minister of Defence, who had to defend this land here yesterday, tried to sing this escape with heroic poetry.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0242	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0196par0243	I'm ending it, Mr. President. However, after three or five minutes of this misdirection, it became a complete fiasco when another MP here said that PYD had said the explanations of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0246	Dear Kutluata...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0196par0247	One of the most important things about this shame -- whoever's talking -- was that one of the most embarrassing things was that he got a round of applause when this shit was going on here. I congratulate the few AKP lawmakers who don't applaud for their personal stance.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0248	Dear Kutluata, please...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0196par0249	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0199par0253	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0254	I will submit the motion to your votes. There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Künceçı, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Önal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Ram, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Onur, Mr. Tamaylıgil and Mr. Danşoğlu. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0200par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0265	Members of parliament, there is a motion to vote in the form of an open vote on the 17th article of the bill.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0201par0266	Mr. President, our Deputy Director of the Group has requested a word.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0200par0267	Mr. President, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0268	I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Change in Population Services Law, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Order for Change in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kasdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koshan's Law Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Admissions in Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Mehmet Caplan's Law; İstanbul MP 2559 Vice Minister's Law on Human Rights Law on Laws and Agreement of Humanity Act; İstanbul Laws Offices and Laws Office of Human Rights on Human Rights (Secont of Peace and Laws). We propose that the vote of the clause be held in the form of an open vote. Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu? Here. Mr. Oktay Sour? Here. Mr. Faik Tunay? Here. Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu? Here. Mr. Osman Aydın? Here. Mr. Free Special? Here. Mr. Mustafa Ali Balbay? Here. Mr. Aydın Agha Ayadın?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0202par0279	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0280	Mr. Mahmut Tanal? Here. Mr. Izzet Cetin? Here. Mr. Ensar Öğün? Here. Mr. Ali Original? Here. Mr. Sedef Little? Here. Mr. Melda Onur? Here. Mr. Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu? Here. Mr. Sakine Öz? Here. Mr. Tanju Özcan? Here. Mr. Moonslayer? Here. Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk? Here. Mr. Mustafa Moroglu?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0203par0292	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0293	Mr. Riza Sürmen? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Article 17: [[X]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Mine Lök White So the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0204par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0308	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0204par0311	Mr. President, we've just been talking about the bill, and we've expressed our objection to the hearings held on February 21st. In fact, at the meeting we had with you as group vice presidents, there were certain decisions. The current situation is: In particular, some decisions have been made as a result of improper session management of various substances, including Articles 1, 2 and 3. Normally, according to Article 13 of the Civil Code, the Speaker of Parliament had to decide a way to follow with the Court. And it's the job of the Presidential Court to follow that. And you have the responsibility to follow that, because of this bill that we're talking about -- 17 articles discussed -- all of the articles of 17 are related to each other, except a few articles. Thus, an irregular decision in Articles 1, 2 and 3, also reveals a situation that directly affects processes related to other provisions of the bill. I mean, the button was buttoned wrong from the beginning, and the negotiations are being continued that way. I've just said that if we can't discuss the 18th article by skipping the first three clauses during a normal bill meeting, we should be in this position at the moment, but you haven't considered our objection. We didn't think it was enough for you to explain. (X) None of the results of the meeting we agreed on at the meeting were reflected to us. Therefore, in an awkward situation, the General Assembly talks are under way. So, we're going to open up a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0312	Yes, Mr. Bauken, thank you. It was discussed yesterday, and it was discussed in the procedure. From yesterday to this side...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0205par0315	It didn't open, it didn't come up.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0316	It's been opened, sir, it was opened yesterday, it's been discussed.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0205par0317	It didn't come up.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0318	No, you're saying it has nothing to do with the outcome, so I don't have anything to do with the outcome, so we can have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0205par0319	You can't go on.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0320	Now, sir, according to Article 13 of the Civil Code, it is possible to correct a business related to the past merger by the decision of the General Assembly as a result of the assessment and proposal of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0206par0321	Let's take a break until the Speaker arrives.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0322	It is in the power and duty of the Speaker of Parliament to call on the Presidential Court, to set up his agenda. The matter has come to the Speakership. I have no jurisdiction over the matter as acting president in charge of the hearing. I've just stated that these objections have been entered into our president's record and studies have been launched.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0207par0324	Mr. President, but look...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0325	After reviewing the matter, the Speaker will submit it to the General Assembly after considering it with the Presidential Court. Now, that's...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0207par0327	Mr. President, right now, if the clauses in the bill we're talking about were independent, unrelated, we might not have expected this.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0328	So, that's exactly what I'm saying we discussed yesterday, we talked yesterday, and there was a discussion of the procedure, and that point was discussed yesterday.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0207par0329	But these substances are completely interrelated, so they have a dimension where negotiations can affect the negotiations of matter. You can also consult the Laws and Decisions. In this regard, if matter is related, talks on the first three articles were irregular, it creates a situation that will directly affect talks on other substances. Therefore, these talks should not actually be held. So...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0330	So, Mr. Baluken, that's exactly the point we discussed yesterday, and there's been a formal debate on it.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0207par0331	But we didn't discuss it the way we did.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0332	There's nothing we can do. I'm not the one who's in charge; we've sent it to the Speaker.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0208par0333	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0198par0334	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0208par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, under the 13th Amendment, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and Peoples' Democratic Party claimed that the vote was irregular last week. This claim was concretely proven by the reports of that day, and we applied to Parliament Speaker as the Republican People's Party Group, and we brought it up in the discussions we had here yesterday. You've interrupted the meeting, the negotiations, and we're here in the back, in your presidency. Yes, the mission belongs to the Speaker of the House, and it belongs to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. He needs to get the Presidential Court together fast and figure out a way to follow through on this. The mission is his, but the talks on the proposal continue. However, every new substance we see is related to what we claim to be irregular in the vote, many of which are related to it. I find it wrong in terms of legislative activity to proceed without any adjustment to it. I demand that you, please, call the Speaker of Parliament, the Deputy Speaker, inform them of the opposition's request for the meeting of the Parliamentary Court immediately, sir. The task is not mine. The problem is not solved. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0209par0340	Yeah, okay. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0210par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit07spe0209par0343	I'll take a five-minute recess to bring the matter to the Deputy Speaker.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0209par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Vural, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0211par0005	Mr. President, you just made a promise to the members of the group, and I had a request to speak in that frame. In that respect, we had a request that this post of the Presidential Court must be carried out immediately. It's very clear that you can't go to other procedures until the procedure is completed. The procedure is discussed first, and, frankly, if this procedure is to be done by the Speaker, it has to be handled and settled first, and then it's to the core. In this regard, you'll appreciate the procedural debate, and since it is a matter that must be opened with urgency, I've made a commitment to make sure that the Speaker's testimony that the negotiations should continue after we've made the determination on this procedure is correct, and that we have an application in that direction. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0008	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0213par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0010	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0213par0012	I'm the one who made the request for Article 13 of the Civil Code, and I've expressed this request here, and I've submitted the petition to Parliament Speaker. Mr. Cicek was in Canada, probably returned, but we learned that the Vice President was also Ayþe Nur Bahçkapılı; in his day, these irregularities were committed on February 21st. So now, the petition we've submitted is in the Deputy President Ayþe Nur, which means we've already filed a complaint against the lady. There's no way we're gonna move forward on any of the other substances without this irregularity being resolved. So there's no joy to time, there's no margin of appreciation for the 13th article, and the Council of Presidents has to decide directly. (x) This is not such a difficult event, it can be collected immediately, and it can be resolved, and it can be resolved. If we can't provide this solution, then we, the opposition, will have to take other precautions.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0013	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. Mr. Group Vice President, I've told the Deputy Speaker of Parliament that I'm meeting with the Deputy President. I spoke to him on the phone, and he said that the work had been launched and that he would be evaluated after the President of Parliament...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0214par0015	Then the procedural debate...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0016	About what you were talking about, sir, there was an inside discussion yesterday and a procedural discussion. What we can do now as Vice President running the House...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0214par0017	Mr. President, would you consider our request for a formal discussion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0018	Sir, yesterday we had a discussion about the procedure, why are we going to have a formal discussion about something we're opening up?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0215par0019	Mr. President, something you missed...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0020	But if it's just to pass the time...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0216par0021	Why waste time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0022	We talked about it yesterday, sir. Did you or did you not discuss the procedure yesterday?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0216par0023	No, it didn't.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0217par0024	Mr. President, in fact, it's over for you to take care of the procedure, it's handed over to the Speaker.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0025	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0217par0026	So we're done arguing the procedure here, so the debate on this is going to have to be done on the Court. In that sense, there can be no discussion without the procedure. Our will comes from here.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0218par0027	The House doesn't close.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0028	We agreed yesterday, but we agreed not to discuss it, but that this place would continue, that the President would gather the Presidential Court and set a course.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0217par0029	Yeah, well, he can't go on without the procedure. What would have happened if you had just opened up a legal debate and been accepted? You have the Court, you have the presidency, you have the majority of the Court. Well, I don't suppose they're sleeping on the Court.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0219par0030	So there's also an irregularity in your attitude. We'd like you to consider our request for a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0031	Mr. Baluken, yesterday we took this request into consideration, we talked, we argued...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0219par0032	No, the procedural debate didn't come up.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0033	We've discussed the need to get him to head of the Parliament, and we've discussed that there's no reason why our meeting should stop while this process is being processed, and we've agreed that there's no reason for it to stop, as a result of the procedure debate. I'll bring in yesterday's reports, sir, and I'll read them, and then we'll have a formal discussion if we need it again.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0219par0034	All right, bring him in.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0035	I'm bringing in yesterday's reports, giving you my opinion as a result of the procedure discussion. Congressmans, there's a motion for a new clause violation, I'll read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If your commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendment in the Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Alternatement, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kemal's Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İskdemir's Proposal for Information Act; İstanbul MP Şeşin's Proclamation of Humanity, 216/16/16/16 ▪ The state refers to those responsible according to the general provisions due to payment. The statute of limitations on the request for a crossbow are applied by onefold increase. After Article 17 in the shape of Article 17, we propose that the following clause be violated according to the other substances to be identified and identified...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0220par0044	We're pulling back, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0045	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0221par0046	We're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0047	Yeah. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on Human Rights Law on Humanity, 2559th and Aditional Law on the Law on Human Rights Act; Ministerships of Laws and Agreement of Law on the Laws of Laws of Laws and Agreement of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; The Law on Humanity of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity; The Law on Humanment of Peace and Law on Humanity of Humanity; Agreement of Human Law on Human Law on Humanity of Humanity; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on Peace and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Peace and Law on Humanment of Peace and Law; İstanbul (Bs) In accordance with Article 1774, we propose and propose that the amendment to Article 1 of the 1st Article of the Statement Act be replaced in the form of those who are separated and those who rent a car in the form of real and legal persons. Mehmet Erdoğan D. Ali Torlak Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "The first joke of the 1st article of the 1st Amendment, dated 26/6/1973, has been changed in the form of the separatists and those renting vehicles." 18 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Sedef Little Ali Riza Özturk Aydın Agha Ayadın Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Özgündüz Aytüğ Atı Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the bill of law shall be removed because of violation of the Constitution and Article 18 of Article 18 of the Constitution and Article 18 of the Constitution and the Constitution, and against universal law norms and fundamental human rights, and that the only party -- one man -- is the dictatorship regime and beyond the police state -- is the practice of "fighting" because of violation of the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Çüsemettin Zenderlioğlu Demir Çelik Does the commission comply with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0222par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0076	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0223par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0078	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0224par0079	Ayla Akat Ata...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0212par0080	Ayla Akat Akat, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0225par0083	But it looks good on you!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0226par0084	It's not classy, it's not classy!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0085	Thank you. Yes, I salute the General Assembly. I have received the right to express the opinion of the People's Democratic Party on the proposed law.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0228par0089	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0090	Dear lawmakers, although the law that is being discussed has no mandate or responsibility, I would like to begin by stressing that it is the law to ensure the safety of the AKP's government, even though it has been claimed by Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and our concerned Minister of the Interior, as well as by the security of the community. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we took the stand today. Let's see what the Turkish Language Association has said: "What's the post?" "It's also been used as an accessory for the last ten years," and everyone knows that it's also been used as an accessory for the last ten years. So, when did the pose, which is an accessory, which is also used as a headscarf, turn into a protection tool, let's discuss this: students went out into the street, protested the DUK, wanted basic language education, wanted equality in education, the answer to the state was gas, the answer was pressured water with TOMA, and in order to protect themselves, they did this. Again, workers, workers, workers were on the streets, they wanted to ensure occupational health and safety, they wanted to protect workers and workers' rights, the gas of the state waiting for them in the street, the stick, the pressure water, and they had to cover their faces like this. Again, dear friends, women went out to the streets on March 8th, on November 25th, against the murders when the Özgecans were slaughtered. Each time, it was the gas of the state, the baton, so they had to cover their faces and protect themselves with their accessories. Dear friends, the tradesman was on the street, of course he had problems, they couldn't make their voices heard, the government, they got together, they got together, but the next thing we know, someone on TV says, "Squeez." What was he going to do, shoplifter? Of course he had to cover his face. Dear friends, farmers again, academics again became victims of the terror of the state in this country. They were victims of the government's violence, but what was said is that we take out this law to secure freedoms. Anyone who criticised the government's policies and wanted freedom was essentially the victim of this violence. What was the truth? It was the gas that was sprayed on the street, and the MP, the academic, the student, the journalist who covered his face with it to protect himself from this gas, all of which were considered guilty by the existing laws. Please let our Minister explain how many people were targeted and punished for covering their face before this law. We haven't discussed this law yet, but three of our young people in Istanbul today, Oktay Çakatay, Omar Bozdağ, Emrah Chechen, were arrested for suspicion of strong crime, for suspicion of strong crime, for suspicion of strong crime, for fear of cold weather. Today, just today, it's just...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0229par0098	Did they have anything?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0230par0099	Do you believe that's the only reason they were arrested, Mr. Ancestor?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0100	Of course I believe it, it's in the press, so you can read it in the transcripts. What's written in those reports...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0231par0101	You're a lawyer, aren't you?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0230par0102	Shame on you! So the bag alone is a weapon of crime, huh?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0103	I agree, I agree, it's a shame, but it's a shame for the AKP government!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0230par0104	That's a shame!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0105	The shame of the AKP government!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0230par0106	You can't just look this citizen in the eye and say it wrong!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0232par0107	What did they have?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0108	We have a saying, we learned from the Turkmen people, from the Turkmen people we live with in Diyarbakir. They say that the world...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0230par0109	He's been charged for putting the bag in, arrested, look at him!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0227par0110	You know, the relationship of sovereignty came between the first man and woman, but the sovereign always said that I -- I would be more than you. And what we learned from the people of Turkmen is that they say, "I'll hold your ear and I'll show you around the world." And the other one says, "You're with me." Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0233par0114	Yes, there are thousands of young people arrested for wearing pushi. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0234par0115	Be decent and speak decently!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0235par0116	What did you have?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0233par0117	Don't talk, be decent! You be it!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0236par0118	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0233par0119	Don't overstep your bounds!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0236par0120	I'm having the other motion read: [[The motion has been read by Muhammad Bilal Macit, a member of the Clerk, İstanbul MP]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The proposal of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin to make changes in the Law of Population Services, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Law on Amendment in the Law of Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for changes in the Law of Information, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0237par0124	Don't overstep your bounds! If you get out of line...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0236par0125	Mr. Threeer, please sit down.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0238par0126	You're a lawyer...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0237par0127	Don't you ever say that again!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0239par0128	Haven't people been sentenced to 15 years? They got 15 years for coushi. You're a lawyer, you're a lawyer! They got 15 years without the law. Know your place, everything's in order!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0237par0129	You can't talk when the kids are wearing the coushi and the shawl! You can't talk when we're wearing scarves! You're gonna make us all guerrillas? [[The motion was read by Muhammad Bilal Macit, a member of the Clerk, İstanbul MP]] The Law Proposal for Amendments to Police Affairs and Peace Law, Adana MP Osman Faruk Logogoglu; Law Proposal for Change in Security Service Law, Mersin MP Ertuğul Kürkcu; Law Proposal for Police Vazife and Salahiye Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and Republican People's Party Group Group Chairs Sinop MP Engin Altay; Ankara MP Levent Gök and 4 MPs for Altay; Law Proposal for Altay on Altay's changes in the Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezkunin's Order for Altay's Law on Human Rights and Law on the Law of Human Rights; İstanbul MP Mustafa Segin Sekin's Committee on Human Rights and Laws Committee on the Law of Human Rights; Agreement of Human Rights and Laws of Human Rights and Laws on the Law of Human Rights "The first joke of the 1st article of the 1st Amendment, dated 26/6/1973, has been changed in the form of the separatists and those renting vehicles." 18 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0240par0135	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0241par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0240par0137	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0242par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0240par0139	İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük has asked for a statement on the proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0243par0142	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 18th Amendment of Bill 684. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy on our martyr pilots, his relatives and our country to be patient. Dear lawmakers, the legal protection of rights and freedoms and one of the most fundamental texts of the rule of law, Magna Carta (also known as Magna Carta) will not be arrested, not imprisoned, nor deprived of property and property, without legal judgement, by the laws of the country, according to its own kind. This article of Magna Carta was written eight hundred years ago. Since then, mankind has traveled further in the struggle for freedom, expanded the field of freedom, and achieved a central perspective. The main question of such a bill, which suspended human rights in Turkey in the 21st century, is: What is your goal with this bill? While modern world societies are trying to expand freedoms, what darkness are you dragging our country into with this bill that has ignored all the savings of democracy and human rights? Or are you aware of that? In fact, the answer to the question of what is at the end of this darkness is not difficult. At the end of that darkness there is a state of police, at the end of that darkness, a quiet society where fear, oppression, and control are normalized; at the end of that darkness there is a state-like terror. That's what we say we're against, that's what we're saying, we're not going to make a pass at it, we're not going to be accomplices to the darkness. We have witnessed this darkness recently. We've seen the violent mentality that attacks even lawmakers recklessly. A primitive who couldn't stand a sound other than his own voice was recently under this roof. This was a clear clue to the society that was being created, a public rehearsal of the law that was being passed. If you can't accept the differences, you can either be from me, think like me, or you can disappear. It's a reflection of your mental state. But it wasn't just under this roof, was it? It was the same mentality that we had had in the past few weeks when our women who had used the right to protest were dragged out on the street, and it was the same thought that in recent years, the people of Uludere had been bombed by the people who shot children on the street and booed them to death. He had a mindset that couldn't stand democracy, that spoke the language of violence under this roof. What happened under this roof was not only a reflection of a violent mentality, but also a manifestation of a terrible fear. It was an expression of fear from his own society, from every movement, from every sound. And that's because of the fear that someone is camping out our people, so they're separating them from you, from me, dividing society by percentages, and that's why they're turning their brother against the brother to protect themselves, which is why he's hiding behind conspiracy theories. It's clear where a sense of governance will lead the community, which is separated from reality by fear and conspiracy theories. Look, you're going to see all authoritarian countries that suspend freedoms in the name of security -- communities overwhelmed by pressure, and eventually there's going to be a social explosion -- countries that inevitably happen; you're going to see comfortable executives who sacrifice democracy and human rights in order to establish absolute power. This is the purpose of this bill, this is where the country is dragged, and the burden of it is very heavy, it cannot be moved, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0147	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0245par0151	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0152	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Önal, Mr. Öz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Coach, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Danşoğlu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on Human Rights Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Law and the Law on Human Rights Committee on Humanity; İstanbul Laws Office of Laws and Agreement on Humanity; Ministerships of Laws on Peace of Laws and Law on the Law on Peace of Law on the Law on the Law on Law and Laws of Law on the Law on Humanity; İstanbul Law of Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Law on HumanLaw ; İstanbul Law on Humanity and Law on Human Rights and Law on Human Law on the Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment ofHumanment ;İstanbul ; İstanbul( Biship of Humanment of Human Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law onHuman). ;İstanbul) In accordance with Article 1774, we propose and propose that the amendment to Article 1 of the 1st Article of the Statement Act be replaced in the form of those who are separated and those who rent a car in the form of real and legal persons. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0246par0166	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0167	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0247par0168	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0169	Yeah, well, I'm reading the motive.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0248par0170	I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0171	Are you going to talk? The government agrees, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0248par0172	You don't want me to talk?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0249par0173	Let him talk!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0244par0174	The way it is, the way it's been... but there's a pattern. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0250par0177	Which one fits the bill, Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0251par0179	For what you've already cut.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0250par0180	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on Article 18 of the proposed bill. I salute the grand jury. This is just the addition of real and corporate individuals, which has been accepted. That means the changes we've made, the suggestions we've made, they're right. There's something I'd like to express here. Our party's views were made clear when the bill was discussed. When the Prime Minister asks for the opposition's demands, our views have been made clear, it has been declared. This bill has been postponed twice. Kim negotiated with whom, it needs to be made clear. Our friends have made our views very clear on both the bottom and the commission. As the National Movement Party, we said, "Fight on the fight against terrorism, don't negotiate with terrorism." We said, "Don't legitimize terrorism." We said too much so that you don't loosen the regulations in the Anti-Terror Law. Our group manager friends have delivered them over and over and over again. Terror was tolerated and terror turned on. You've made it normal to rally, transport, separatist with the symbols of the terrorist organization. You gave the governors their operational authority, and you instructed the governors not to operate. You also pulled the Turkish Armed Forces from Homeland Security. You told the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to lay down their weapons, to go with their weapons. You also continued to negotiate. You've handed over internal security to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The PKK is setting up courts, throwing judges, collecting taxes, setting up law enforcement units; there is no word from you, nothing from you. Didn't the Carabinieri intervene in spite of you in the events of October 6th or 7th? Who interfered? Even though you changed the law, who interfered? You got the army involved. Now, when you look at these, Mr. Secretary, it's clear that your work is not right. But, what you wanted was the white palace, then the white police, then the white gendarmes, the white army, the white justice, you go like this, but it doesn't end well for you either. Maybe you're leading the Prime Minister differently, maybe you're trying to cheat, but it's not possible. He has to read whatever you put in front of him. That's what I said. Mr. Babacan was just here. Would a man make the Prime Minister tell him that he's a national income from $10,000 to $19,000? Isn't it a shame, isn't it a sin, that he follows around? Where, in 2017, the national income will be $970 billion. What happens after that? That's $1.3 trillion for 2018. Shame is a sin! The whole world is watching, watching from agencies, hearing the Prime Minister say that. I wouldn't be able to get out in public if I told you that. Why are you deceiving him? Why are you deceiving the Prime Minister? Are we enjoying this? Is this just the Prime Minister of the AKP? If he is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, it will not be done by these ministers. You get it done and you enjoy it. That's not gonna happen, you're gonna warn him, you're gonna tell him, you're gonna teach him what he doesn't know, he needs to know. Now, this $1.3 trillion is going to the G20 meeting. He'll laugh, he'll say who came here and what we're talking about. In one year, you passed 11 digits in the drag league. Of course, what you're doing then, you're trying to take precautions. The theft is increasing, corruption is increasing, violence is increasing, violence is increasing for women, violence is increasing for health workers, the use of addictive substances is increasing; prisons are full, floods, the judiciary is bankrupt, and this is going on in disgrace. Bring in whatever precautions you want, and you won't be able to get any results if you don't act properly. Thank you, my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0252par0188	Thank you. I submit to your votes the commission has passed, the government's motion.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0253par0190	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0252par0191	I've been asked to make a decision, so I'll call. All in favor... Yes, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to make a decision. Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion for a new substance violation. I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission agrees with the motion in general, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if it does not, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Law of Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and the Law of Humanity Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in Articles of Law and Law of Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on Local Services Act; Vice Minister of Human Rights on Laws and Laws of Laws of Laws, 2-6-4-4-4-4-4th Amendments in the Code of Statement Act, Admissions of Humanity and Admissions of Peace, 2604th Amendments under the Law, 260th Amendments and Laws of the Law, 260th Amendments under the Law, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment of the Constitution of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law and the Commission of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution, 2th and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, 2th and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, 2th, 2th, 2th and the Council of Ministers, 2th, 2th, 2s, 2th and the Council of Ministers, 2th and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, 2th and the Council of Ministers, 2th and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, 2th Amendment, 2 After the 18th article in the shape of 18th article, we propose that the following item be identified accordingly. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal "MEDDE 19-26/6/1973, and Number 1774 added the following joke to Article 1 of the Statement Act...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0254par0209	We've withdrawn, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0252par0210	The motion has been withdrawn. There are three motions on the 19th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 19 of the current 684 Section Commission Report. Mehmet Erdoğan Sinan Oğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu "MEDDE 19 - 1774 has been added to the following article. "EK MADDE 3- The managers and managers of car rental companies must keep the identity information and rental agreement records of those who rent the vehicle on a regular basis and have available information, documents and records ready for inspection of the general law enforcement forces at all times. However, the contract with a public institution or organisation only registers tool information in case the rental vehicle is a public institution or institution. The person who uses the information and records obtained under the first joke during the rental of the vehicle, who uses them against the law, who gives them to someone else, who gives them to others, or takes them, is punished according to Turkish Penal Code 5237. For those who act contrary to obligations mentioned in the first joke, the five thousand Turkish liras are issued to those who record or give information against the truth, the ten thousand Turkish Liras administrative fines, the management of property. The administrative fines issued under this Law will be paid within a month of the arraignment. If information is destroyed for the purpose of concealing a crime, the license to operate will be revoked. According to this joke, implementation of administrative sanctions does not prevent criminal investigations and prosecutions. The implementation of this clause and the basic and procedures related to the control of public personnel using this data as its mandate are determined by the Interior Ministry." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act on Humanity Laws and Amendments in the Law; Minister of Humanity of Human Rights and Laws of Humanity; İstanbul MP İskdemir Kashdemirimimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal on the Law shall be made changes in the Law Act; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Council; İstanbul Council of Law shall be made by the Law on Humanity and the Law on Humanation of Laws Office of Laws Act; İstanbul Acts Offices Office; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanment; İstanbul Council of Laws Office of Law on Humanment; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanment; Articles and Laws Acts Offices Council of Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Council of Law on Human Law.; Articles.; Articles Office of Human.; İstanbul shall be under the Law on Law on Human Law on Law and the Law on Law and the Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Law on Human.; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sez of Law on Humanment of Law on Human.; Articles.; Articles Office of Law on Law on Law on Human. "EK MADDE 3- The managers and managers of car rental companies must keep the identity information and rental agreement records of those who rent the vehicle on a regular basis and have available information, documents and records ready for inspection of the general law enforcement forces at all times. However, the contract with a public institution or organisation only registers tool information in case the rental vehicle is a public institution or institution. The person who uses the information and records obtained under the first joke during the rental of the vehicle is punished according to Turkish Penal Code No. 26/9/2004. Those who act contrary to obligations mentioned in the first joke will receive two thousand Turkish liras, an administrative fine of five thousand Turkish liras, for those who record or give information against the truth. The administrative fines issued under this Law will be paid within a month of the arraignment. If information is destroyed for the purpose of concealing a crime, the license to operate will be revoked. According to this joke, implementation of administrative sanctions does not prevent criminal investigations and prosecutions. The implementation of this clause and the basic and procedures related to the control of public personnel using this data as its mandate are determined by the Interior Ministry." 19 in shape. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Riza Özturk Aytuğ Atı Aydın Agha Ayyadın Mustafa Balbay Ali Özgündüz Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Now, I'm going to have to read the motion for violation of the Constitution. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and That the bill of law shall be removed from the bill due to the violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the one-party single-man-digration regime beyond the state of law and law enforcement, due to the violation of the 19th Article of the Constitution and the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0255par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0252par0246	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0256par0247	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0252par0248	Nazmi Gür, MP. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0257par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the subject of my group. You know, we've told you once again that this law -- if it becomes law and passes -- will create problems internationally -- on this stand, it's good to remind you once again. He just spoke to another speaker, a friend of ours from the CHP. It is useful to say often because with this bill Turkey has signed both international contracts and defamation of Article 90 of the Constitution... at the same time, the candidate country in the European Union's process will take a very serious hit. In this regard, we, the opposition, will continue to voice our warnings. Dear friends, there's a press release from the Council of Europe, so that we can read it as it is, so that we can make our point better. He suggests: "I invite the Turkish Parliament to reevaluate it in light of existing international standards, my recommendations and the recommendations of national human rights structures, to consider it an opportunity to design legislation aimed at improving police human rights records in Turkey." European Council of Human Rights Commissioner Nils Muiznieks. I mean, it's one of your most serious explanations. I believe that this law will return from Strasbourg, and Turkey will also have a serious debate on the Council of Europe with this disgrace law, a law that defies fundamental rights, freedoms, rights to live. You know, Turkey also has to reform, change, reform, reform the European criteria, especially the Copenhagen Political Criteria as a candidate country for the European Union. While such a imperative is evident, the government must take radical democratic steps in terms of both the process of resolution and the democratisation of Turkey, such an authoritarian, almost an anti-fascist regime, which will give the police direct authority to kill, preventive detention or preventive arrest, it must be withdrawn immediately from Turkey with self-restraint concepts. Of course, the very important institutions with a conscience in Turkey, who are working to strengthen democracy in Turkey, also voice their opinion on this issue. For example, the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey is making serious statements about this law's revenues and demands that the law be withdrawn. Again, the Human Rights Association, which is an important human rights organization, which I have served with honor for fifteen years, has its opinions that it is the immediate withdrawal of this law and its objections to democracy. Again, yesterday, our Group Chairman, Mr. Idris Baluken, said that across Europe -- even worldwide -- the Amnesty International has launched a serious campaign. That's right, I joined this campaign today, and as a member of Amnesty, I proudly signed it. We will do everything in our power to ensure that this law does not pass, both in Parliament and out of Parliament. Amnesty International has launched a global campaign worldwide. He is conducting an explanation and campaign that demonstrates how this law destroys freedom of thought, freedom of assembly, especially the right to live. Again, there's a report here from the Human Rights Joint Platform, where very different human rights organisations meet and include MASLUMDER. That's what this report says. Likewise, again, the barrooms, human rights organizations, occupational organisations are expressing the difficulties of this law. Thus, the whole of Turkey is against, most of the international organisations we belong to are against. That way you can't explain this law in terms of international law, in terms of connections, or in terms of internal law. Because this law clearly violates the 90th article of the Constitution. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0258par0260	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0259par0261	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit08spe0258par0262	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0258par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Van MP Özdal Threeer and his friends to vote on Article 19 of the Law Bill No. 684 was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Law on Information Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Encounter's Encounter's Proposal; 2559 Vice Office on the Law on Human Rights and Agreement of Laws on Humanity; The Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Laws and Laws and Laws on Humanity of Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Laws Laws Laws Laws Laws Laws Laws Laws Law; İstanbuls and Law on Humanity; İstanbul (Biment). "EK MADDE 3- The managers and managers of car rental companies must keep the identity information and rental agreement records of those who rent the vehicle on a regular basis and have available information, documents and records ready for inspection of the general law enforcement forces at all times. However, the contract with a public institution or organisation only registers tool information in case the rental vehicle is a public institution or institution. The person who uses the information and records obtained under the first joke during the rental of the vehicle is punished according to Turkish Penal Code No. 26/9/2004. Those who act contrary to obligations mentioned in the first joke will receive two thousand Turkish liras, an administrative fine of five thousand Turkish liras, for those who record or give information against the truth. The administrative fines issued under this Law will be paid within a month of the arraignment. If information is destroyed for the purpose of concealing a crime, the license to operate will be revoked. According to this joke, implementation of administrative sanctions does not prevent criminal investigations and prosecutions. The implementation of this clause and the basic and procedures related to the control of public personnel using this data as its mandate are determined by the Interior Ministry." 19 in shape. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0260par0015	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0258par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0261par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0258par0018	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0262par0019	Mr. Mustafa Balbay will speak, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0258par0020	Mustafa Balbay, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0263par0023	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to this package of internal security destruction, which came in Article 43 and then reached Article 132, and I will be speaking mainly on Article 19. The 19th article, like many of the articles of this package, is a substance such as George Orwell, which will read mercy into the book of 1984, which will create a very serious detention atmosphere in society, including the fact that all parts of society are being kept in custody, and, again, the fact that he has been brought into this law to remind you of your new arrest or detention. When you look at the details of this clause, lawmakers, for example, you went to a resort, you rented a car, the police may be after you. Because when you hire this vehicle, they're going to ask for all the information from you, and the person who rents the car will act with the feeling that law enforcement and police control are ready at any moment. Congressmans, when you already looked at the entire law, you said later because you really thought that there was no telling about internal security, you said: "The protection package of freedoms." That's true, there's a package of protecting freedoms here, but you have to protect freedoms from the logic of the Justice and Development Party. Because when you look at the clauses of this law, it's based on a logic that, in every field, the citizen will be on the back of the criminal and the police at any moment, on the back of his neck. Congressmans, you've been dealing with a lot of cops, you've got protection, you've got security. If they, perhaps, won't tell you your face, with the Home Secretary's attention, there are some items in this package that I'd say are highly unhealthy and that have brought up a new regulation on police matters that have led to the change of law enforcement from beginning to end. So, while you're making arrangements for one side of the gendarmes, you've organized the police force to be under separate police supervision. From here, while I was speaking at eight o'clock this morning -- with the Home Secretary's attention, I shared 183 people lost their lives after the change in police duty and the law of authority was extended a little bit more. I have a 28-page report on this. I'm also going to present a report that I can promise to bring up in front of you, yes, because I think there's been a different arrangement here, if there's a wrong sentence in this report. Congressmans, you will see here that our police have received extraordinary powers and have eliminated 183 lives since 2007. Now, with this arrangement, you're authorizing the police to use weapons even in the face of a hurtful substance. A hurtful substance could be anything, glass could be a glass glass, a mallet, could be anything. In contrast, asking for weapons is like killing flies with a hammer. (CHEERING) There's nothing wrong with analogy. If you try to kill a fly with a hammer, you will destroy the place you hit, and if it is a table, you will remove the table, and if it is glass, you will remove the glass, and if it is internal security, you will eliminate internal security. Congressmans, during the work of the Commission, you have made minor changes in this law in accordance with the proposals of our friends, Afyon MP Ahmet Beyin, Mersin MP Ali Riza Beyin, Ali Serindağ, and Ali Serindağ. Come, consider this General Assembly again. In this law, if you really are sincere, re-arrange freedoms and at least rearrange some substances. For example, you've brought an arrangement where you'll listen to the phone, listen to the phone, listen to it indefinitely, and you've brought an arrangement from Ankara alone that can last for 48 hours. Congressmans, this 132-point internal security... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to submit to your attention the re-evaluation of the law of self-destruction. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0264par0036	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit09spe0265par0037	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0265par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote on İzmir MP Mustafa Balbay and his friends' motion on Article 19 of the Law Bill No. 684. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment of the current 684 Sections Commission report to Article 19 as follows. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends The following article has been added to the Law 19 - 1774. The operators and managers of the vehicle rental companies are required to keep the identity information and rental agreement records of those who rent the vehicle on a regular basis and have available information, documents and records ready to be examined by the general law enforcement force at any time. However, the contract with a public institution or organisation only registers tool information in case the rental vehicle is a public institution or institution. The person who uses the information and records obtained under the first joke during the rental of the vehicle, who uses them against the law, who gives them to someone else, who gives them to others, or takes them, is punished according to Turkish Penal Code 5237. For those who act contrary to obligations mentioned in the first joke, the five thousand Turkish liras are issued to those who record or give information against the truth, the ten thousand Turkish Liras administrative fines, the management of property. The administrative fines issued under this Law will be paid within a month of the arraignment. If information is destroyed for the purpose of concealing a crime, the license to operate will be revoked. According to this joke, implementation of administrative sanctions does not prevent criminal investigations and prosecutions. The implementation of this clause and the basic and procedures related to the control of public personnel using this data are determined by the Ministry of Interior. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0266par0016	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0265par0017	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0267par0018	We agree.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0265par0019	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0268par0022	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask the grace of God to our four brothers, who were first killed by the crash of two of our planes. May God give patience to their families and to the Turkish nation. It's against the rules to have groups talking about the motions that have been accepted, but since this law began, neither the law nor the Constitution nor the law nor the law nor the law nor the law nor the order nor the order nor the order nor the order of it, they've all been put on the shelf, unfortunately, I regretfully declare it, they've all been put on the shelf. Otherwise, we're not supposed to be talking about our agreed motion here, but imagine that we're talking about what we're talking about instead of what we're entitled to. What tense times we're having, what troubled times we're having. What happened to Orhan Sütük Bey here yesterday was going to happen to our brother Metin Ashunk, where there is no point in pushing or pooping. What is the sin of the children of Metin Ashkunk? His father sent his father, his father, to serve this nation, and Metin Ash was going down there. Why? Because of the lawless attitude of a vice president. I mean, these laws go away, they go away, but the rest of the wounds go away, my friends. Life doesn't all come together in one law. You don't need a nationalist movement group in just one law, there's a lot more to go on. In fact, when you look at this law, it's a rare blessing for power. Every government wants its rights from such a law. Why? It's like a broken head. I mean, I've just submitted it, like the law that Hitler took out of the German Assembly on March 23, 1933. But remember, one day someone else will take advantage of these laws. Those others may not always be as well-intentioned as you claim. Open up, I'll call you. Tell me what we'll say when you say it. What are we going to say when you tell a lady to strip down and I'll call you? So we're just gonna leave it for the good of these people? You're doing the wrong thing. You just locked up the incident, molotofa, and you pushed the truth away. Look, I'm going to tell you: there's a clause in this law that the public inspector, the inspector, anyone, has gone to inspect someone; he has a grudge, he's going to file a reverse report on him, and he's going to remove it. Earlier, you were applying to the court on his behalf, the administration court. You just took away his rights. You're going to sue the public, and if the public wishes, they're going to sue the officer. Look, you know what that brings? He brings all public officials under the unconditional command of the government. Once again, one day when you're not in power, you'll have serious regrets about this law. Another thing: the cops are gonna take the test every time. The sergeant will be deputy commissioner at Karagümrük Station. He's gonna take the test. He's gonna interview. You know what he's gonna want for the interview? He'll go to the Conqueror County Service, the Justice and Development Party, and he'll say, "Please, give me a reference. I'm going to interview, I'm going to skip a class. This incident between the police chiefs will now be reduced to the deputy commissioner in the police station. The end of this is a party state, a Baas regime, a communications state. You may not feel the pain about it right now, but one day, when someone has a bad use for the rights that have caused it, you say, "I'm burned!" And maybe we can't be there for you. But, I swear to you, I promise you, we will never abuse the rights we have earned from this law as badly as you do. What you give, what you give, what you give to a lady, come here, strip down, we'll look for you. But with this law, you give someone that right, you make a mistake like that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0269par0030	Thank you. I submit to your votes the commission has passed, which the government has submitted: those who have agreed... those who have refused... have been accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in the Law; İstanbul MP's Law on Humanity Services Act, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Amendment; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Security Code; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal's Proposal on the Security Code; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Constitutional Law on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Humanity and the Constitution on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; Wedness of Humanity of Humanity and the Law shall under the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution. of Peace and the Constitution of Security of the Constitution on the Constitution. of the Security of Peace and the Constitution. of Peace and the Security of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Constitution. of Peace and the Security of the Security of Peace and the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Constitution. Mehmet Erdoğan Sinan Oğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Alim Iklut Bkent Belen Mustafa Kalaycı The following temporary clause has been added to Law 20-1774. "Club MADDE 5- In six months from the time this clause is in effect, car rental companies must keep all their records on computer and connect computer terminals to computer terminals established according to the additional 1th article of the general law enforcement force. Companies who fail to comply will be fined 10,000 Turkish liras under the management of the property. In a repeat of this verb, business licenses are revoked. According to this clause, the cancellations of the license application cannot be processed until after 5 years have passed the notice of the cancellation of the application." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "The following temporary clause is added to Law 1774. "Club MADDE 4 - In six months from the time this clause is in effect, car rental companies must keep all their records on computer and connect computer terminals to computer terminals established according to the additional 1th article of the general law enforcement force. Incompatible businesses are fined 10,000 Turkish liras for administrative fines under the management of the property. In the repeat of this verb, business licenses are revoked." 20 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Aytuğ Atı Aydın Agha Ayyadın Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Özgündüz Mahmut Tanal Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and that the bill of law shall be taken out of the bill due to violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution's Law provisions and universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the one party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and beyond the police state -- the actual "war state" of law and law. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0270par0062	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0269par0063	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0271par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0269par0065	Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0272par0068	Mr. President, my dear friends, you know we have an objection to this entire bill. Ayla Akat Akat asked if there was anyone here who was convicted of wearing the posh from there until now, as our friend Idris Şahin was actually revealing this concrete truth about what kind of criminal device he was going to be turned into. Isn't that what you asked? Actually, I do. For example, many others are children imprisoned for throwing stones, children whose hearts have been examined and thrown into jail for beating their hearts. There were all these, but they were all being thrown into prison by forcing the law. Now, you're acting like you don't really know the law you're bringing in because you're punishing those who cover their faces with cloths for the changes you've made in this law from two to four years. So from now on, anyone who covers his face, wears a poop can be convicted. Why? You assume his intentions. How do you know what he's wearing, why, why he's covering his face? For example, now, I'm committing a crime, right? I'm not working now. Like this? You, along with this law, not only those who participate in political protests, such as those who participate in protests at workplaces, you can put construction workers in prison because they are in a social conflict, their necks, their faces, their faces, their faces, their faces, their faces, their faces, their faces, their faces. Since you've decided the element of intent, you can lock up whoever you're targeting. Now, under these circumstances, it's practically the government that has the right and authority to wage war against the people, because for any reason, it can impose extremely severe sanctions on crowds, regardless of what their demands are, and only because of their clothes. Moreover, you're doubling these sentences in actions that have been transformed into the propaganda of the terrorist organization -- in a very vague term -- with the changes you've made in the Anti-Terror Law. How do we prove it, that the terrorist organization has turned into propaganda? For example, today, young people who walk around with posters of the revolutionaries they respect in the demonstrations have turned to the propaganda of the terrorist organization, where they have hundreds of posters together, and you can say, well, that's how you can blame young people with scarfs and scarfs and scarfs on their necks. It depends entirely on the intent of governance; not on the intent of people, marchers, revolutionaries, young people, but on the intention of government, and how the administration used this intention, and we saw it during the period of the ongoing arrests of the KCK between 2011 and 2013. When he said "management," he imprisoned our former MP for months for reading an e-mail without any need, and now, why would he stop putting a worker, a construction worker, a protester, a teenager in prison because he had a bag on him? Basically, it's the law of a state and government that wages war against its youth. We're trying to tell you that this war can't be won, but you don't want to understand. So, look back, look back, look back at the battles lost by the autonomous governments, look at the battles lost by the government of Çiller, look at the battles lost by Mesut Yilmaz. Look at the battles lost by Baunt Ecevit. He's never won a war against the public, he's always lost, but unfortunately, you've been a part of this history since you identified yourself with the government. You belong in history, in the past, the future will be ours.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0273par0073	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "The following temporary clause is added to Law 1774. "Club MADDE 4 - In six months from the time this clause is in effect, car rental companies must keep all their records on computer and connect computer terminals to computer terminals established according to the additional 1th article of the general law enforcement force. Incompatible businesses are fined 10,000 Turkish liras for administrative fines under the management of the property. In the repeat of this verb, business licenses are revoked." 20 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0274par0082	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0273par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0275par0084	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0273par0085	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0276par0086	Izzet Cetin.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0273par0087	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0277par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, this is an arrangement that envisions the introduction of a temporary clause to the Statement of Identity Act 1774. It's probably one of the most critical elements of this bill that we've been talking about day and night for over a week. Of course, an arrangement like this at a time when our country is getting away from democracy, trying to suppress fundamental rights and freedoms, and the person's transitioned and authoritarian government pressure is increasing, so it might seem good for safety and property safety in a democratic way that all the records of car rental companies are connected with a system that is integrated into security units, security units. As a matter of fact, in Article 2 of this law, Article 2 of Law 1774, a similar arrangement was made specifically in 2008, but Turkey was more democratic that day than it is today. So we're seeing reflections of his withdrawal from democracy, the increasing of authoritarian, oppressive order in the President's statement every day, in all of the government's practices, and such an arrangement, of course, during a time when those who exercise the right to rally and demonstration walks are tried to intimidate and suppress, by pepper gas, by the bat, by creating suspicion, by creating anxiety. Of course, when you look at such a clause, you take the entire law as a whole, and then you don't want to, especially when you think about it, you're worried about such regulations, especially when it comes to the application of a Home Secretary who has the authority to direct command of the General Command and the Security Service. All the friends have said, so far, really, this bill has stretched society, as it did the House. Even the fact that the shrine was being moved to shade this bill has been consciously introduced to the talks of this bill. Can we divert the agenda, can we turn the issue in our favor? But the boomerang effect did, and he made it public with all the public opinion that it was a suppression, that it was meant to create a change of agenda. Dear friends, really, what Turkey needs is not antidemocratic regulations, so it is of no use to anyone to take the country towards an authoritarian regime. All political parties live in a period when all democratic mass organisations believe in law, in accordance with the rules of the law state, who want the country to be ruled, who advocate, who want modern democracy, who are suffering from it, who say it is uncomfortable and that it should be withdrawn, though the administration is almost beginning to conduct legislative activities, and the executives are starting to use the legislative authority. This Parliament has not been harassed so much in the last 13 or 14 years, lawmakers have never been bullied so much, they have not used brute force or force. Indeed, the desire to bring the sultanism back to the realm, from its ministers to its MPs, from its ministers to its president, to its parliamentary deputies, to the country's darkness. Therefore, it is in the best interest of both Turkey and our people that this love should be abandoned at once. So, please withdraw this law, please give me confidence. Look, the people who are not concerned about the 2nd article in 2008 are concerned about the fact that the rental vehicles are connected to the integrated system and the police departments today, and I say, "Think about where you are and what will happen to you in the future, and I salute the Grand Assembly."
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0278par0096	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Public Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for the Law of Population Services; Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law, Çanakkale MP Ismail Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment in the Law and Law of Information Act; Proposal for changes in Articles of the Security Act; Proposal for Peace and Amendments in Articles of Humanity Services; Proposal for Humanity and Laws for Humanity of Human Rights and Laws of Humanity of Humanity; Proposals for Humanity of Humanity and Laws of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity (Sec. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 20 - 1774. "Club MADDE 5- In six months from the time this clause is in effect, car rental companies must keep all their records on computer and connect computer terminals to computer terminals established according to the additional 1th article of the general law enforcement force. Companies who fail to comply will be fined 10,000 Turkish liras under the management of the property. In a repeat of this verb, business licenses are revoked. According to this clause, the cancellations of the license application cannot be processed until after 5 years have passed the notice of the cancellation of the application." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0279par0105	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0278par0106	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0280par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0278par0108	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0281par0111	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the 20th Amendment of Law Bill 684, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council at this hour of the night. Dear lawmakers, as a result of an imposition on this law, I'm afraid we've all lived together and we've all been sad. Although the esteemed MPs of the National Movement Party have announced the group meeting to you, I'm afraid we'll have a word for the group of those who have been tortured for the past 40 hours: let God torture you as well. I'm condemning the understanding that forced this group to work this way for 40 hours, and I'd like to point out that the Presidential Court has failed to carry out its mission because it unfortunately did not take the necessary precautions in the face of events. At the beginning of my words, I offer my condolences to four of our pilots, who were martyrs on our two planes that fell in Malatya, to God's mercy, to their grieving families, and to the mighty Turkish nation. In addition, it is my duty to remind you that all executive elements, especially government officials, who are responsible for dislodging Solomon Shah Turbage and Displacement Station, will be sentenced to a life sentence that will eventually result in the total or part of the state's territory under foreign government, dismantling some of the state's sovereignty, dismantling a part of the government's government, reducing the independence of the state, reminding you of the sentence. Dear lawmakers, the National Movement Party sought reconciliation in this bill, sought humanity, respected everyone's opinion and wished for this bill to be passed so that it would be a law of the Assembly, but so far, unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party Group and the Government did not provide such an environment, and it does not seem to be able to achieve it after that. If you say the National Movement Party is against what articles of this bill and what regulations are brought in, I want to make it brief: we will never be able to accept the authority of the governor and the trustees. It's breaking the rule of law and ignoring the law. The authority to detain a citizen by means of law enforcement forces arriving in 48 hours does not suit this country, nor does it benefit anyone in this day and age. Why would the Justice and Development Party bring this arrangement? I remind you that he brought some crates here to be confiscated in the upcoming June 7, 2015 elections. I remind you of this warning. But these people won't allow it, and one day it will turn against you. In other words, the National Movement Party opposes the closure of police colleges, the execution of police personnel, the regulation of the police force to be placed between a minister and his two lips. Again, the National Movement Party opposes the abandonment of the military and Coast Guard Command's political will. The National Movement Party opposes the application of this to be paid from the state's treasury. So, with this app, an investigator under your command will remove any government official from his post with a report he wants, and the treasure will pay if compensation is born. I'm sorry, the treasure is not the AKP's farm. For him, it would be wise to withdraw this bill and download it to the General Assembly after the commission has been made up of the necessary arrangements. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0282par0123	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion for a new substance clause that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu's Law Proposal for changes in the Law of Public Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Law of Population Services; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for changes in the Law of Information Act.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0283par0129	We're withdrawing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0282par0130	Are you filming, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0283par0131	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0282par0132	The motion has been drawn. Thus, the votes of the substances on the first section are complete. Mr. Light, you've asked for a statement according to Article 58. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0284par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking on the parliamentary motion to investigate the problems of the religious officials on behalf of our group on February 24, 2015, Mr. Mustafa Erdem. In response to Mr. Recep's remarks, I took the liberty of saying that the religious officials had forgotten their other problems and that there had been increased salaries during the AKP administrations and that there had been an increase in religious officials' salaries and that our time had come to the top of the ranks in the Maash scale. I made a promise to make this correction, thinking it might lead to misunderstandings. Here, in fact, we have raised the wages of religious officials just by looking at the material, so we've solved all of their problems, and I really wanted to say that it's not the right understanding of it, that it's not the right understanding of it, that it's the right understanding of it, that it's not the right thing to correct it, especially for a lot of people who have been appointed on the Dianette, that it's not the right thing to say that there's no problem in terms of money, in terms of money. So I think that this correction should be made to understand the fact that your religion is money. And thank you, Mr. President, for his promise, even though it's late, in a day's time.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0285par0142	Thank you. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part includes 21 to 46. Faruk Bal, MP for the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0286par0151	Mr. President, there have been talks in parliament over a week about this bill for the construction of the police state. The worst of it was on February 21st. On February 21st, the Justice and Development Party Group seized a number of rights to opposition parties in the Civil Code and used brute force. As a result of this climate and violent use of brute force, only the opposition in democratic countries has been eliminated as they have the right to speak, express their general views on the laws, to control the administration with questions, to direct the law by motions. It turns out that a law like this was intended to build a police state. My dear friends, we all know that opposition is only in democracies, and we all know that where the word of opposition is cut down, and the area of movement is not democracy, and the course of Turkey is right here, and the second part that I've promised is about that point. Now, in the second chapter, there are some regulations for police matters. When we set aside these arrangements, the first statement stated: The police, who obtained evidence in the December 17, 25th corruption operation, are subject to a treatment by saying that they will be entered and answered to the faith or thought of which they belong. And that's the result of that treatment, in which police schools, police colleges and academies are officially removed. My dear friends, it is called the use of state organs in order to take revenge. The legislature does not engage in absurdities, the legislature cannot be used as a means of revenge. Again, by the principle of personality and punishment in crimes, whoever committed the crime will, of course, pay for it in front of the law. Let's say there was a study from police schools, police colleges and academys, and let's say there was an attempt to eliminate the government, then it was a crime in the law. Find evidence of this, judge him in an independent and impartial court. Instead, completely tribalism is a violation of the acquish code of rights to condemn all those who belong to an opinion, such as in the era of tribal law. My dear friends, this is a liquidation law. The AKP police will arrive, like compound containers in the area that were emptied after this purged. So, as I said at the beginning before the AKP police arrived, you're giving him overpowering powers that are not in any country that believes in the need of a democratic society. You give the police great power to defeat freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, freedom of mass demonstration, freedom of political activity, the right to fair trial, the independence of courts, the principles of separation of forces with the people. With this power the police have acquired, all materials are available for the construction of the police state as a result of your political direction. Police, however, expect to take a step from the AKP government on their salary, overtime, staff and progress, pension, additional indicator. The MPs are waiting for rank and status, and the senior law enforcement officers are waiting for some arrangements regarding their retirement. None of this exists; on the contrary, a new promotion system is being introduced to turn police into AKP police, and this promotion system will make police station depend on the AKP's district and headquarters from its police station to the General Directorate. My dear friends, in this part of our conversation, I'm going to show you a photograph. AKP MPs, please take a good look at this: this is the flag you saw in this photograph, the flag you planted in the new site you found for Süleyman Shah Temple. That's the tank of the Turkish army guarding it, with the Turkish flag on it. And those are the ones who made the PKK sign -- that flag and the Abdullah Ocalan poster -- are you aware of what you're doing? My dear friends, listen to this with good reason. In 1921, it was claimed and claimed by the Ankara Agreement and Süleyman Shah Temple to plant a flag on Syrian soil while this state was being formed. That region is a Turkmen region, a flag for the Turkish Republic's security. Later, because of the construction of a dam, when it was necessary for a certain reason -- now the place you're transporting is a Turkmen region -- has been transferred to the Turkmen region of Sulejman Shahhan's Turbish and it has 16 Turkmen villages around it. They, along with that shrine, feel that they are under the guarantee of Turkey. Now, you've seen that the area you're transporting is under P.Y.D. control. Again, you have declared the PYD as a terrorist, especially the President, the Prime Minister. You have declared yourself a terrorist, and you have gone to the shrine as an escort to whom you declared to be terrorists to bring the body of the founder of the Ottoman Empire from where he was found. (X) When their protection was over, you went under the protection of the ISIS workers who were declared terrorists in the world and destroyed the shrine that was found. After that, you come with the same protection and declare a terrorist, and entrust the body of the founder of the Ottoman State's grandfather to these PKK terrorist organizations. Do you realize what this means? This means that I am already saying yes for a new creation that can be created in Syria. This is what it means. I mean the AKP government, I would never accept it. This is a sign that the AKP government will recognise the actual sovereignty that has already been established there in terms of international law by burying the shrine of Süleyman Shah. And this is not a job that everyone boasts about, which the President, the Prime Minister, runs with white shirts and so forth. Uh, there's soldiers here, and there's one here. Ask the soldiers... The army has three operations: 1) Attack, 2) Defense, 3) Ritt. And the most important thing about a request is to get rid of the materials, the building, the vehicle, while it's being pulled out of its position, and that's what you're doing. You made a request to destroy the shrine. It's never a success, it's never a victory, it's a defeat as it is, but with the painted press, you can present it to Turkey as a victory with the Alo Conquers at your disposal. I mean, I have no words to say, I have no words to say, I salute all of you, about the disgrace that has fallen into you, the national, the spiritual value that has fallen into you, that melts in the pit, in the pus.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0287par0161	Thank you. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second part of Bill 684. My respects to the High Council. However, before we move to the second part of Bill 684, I wish God's mercy to our pilots who were killed on the plane that crashed in Malatya, my condolences to their relatives, my condolences to the Turkish nation. Again, before we proceed to the bill, I would like to say a few words about the escape operation from Solomon Shah Temple, because it is not possible to leave without saying so. Dear friends, the Song of Solomon Shah was a sacred relic of a Turkish elder and his bodyguards who had been martyred nine hundred years ago, and you had to miss a shrine because you couldn't intervene with ISIS because of your partnership. You missed it, but you're offering this escape as a hero, and the forbidden media is helping you out a lot. I was surprised to hear the escape was heroic, but for the first time I heard from the spokesman and the president of AKP power. Now, what kind of place did you miss? On the one hand is a post with the flag of the Syrian extension of the PKK, a post with Abdullah Ocalan's poster on the one end, and on the other side is the post of the martyrdom and the stake of the Turkish flag. Tomorrow, the Syrian arm of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) said to smuggle it out of here. When he said, "You have brought it closer to the country and to the border, I think it's 180 meters," I think you've brought it to an area where you can easily get it out of there. I'm telling you, this is as far as you're gonna get, so there's no more opportunities. That's enough. Dear friends, before we come to the second chapter of Bill 684 again, I would like to express my opinion on some of the materials that you have not even given the opportunity to say about those who have rejected our rights to speak, those who do not. Now look at what the Interior Minister Efkan Ala, who presented this bill, says in his speech on the 1st Amendment, the search for above, invisible places, items, and places of their vehicles, says: (First, the warrant for the prevention of crime brings regulations on these issues. The prevention of crime, the capture of escaped perpetrators... Look, why would he look for the invisible parts of the car, or why would he look for the invisible parts of the person? ..for the search of the person who has been stopped for the purpose of preventing the danger to people's lives, property, or society. In drafting this bill, while presenting it, I would like to point out one thing: it has been arranged in certain crimes and criminal situations. That's because when our citizens think that there are real criminals in their neighborhoods, in the fight against these crimes, it's to ensure that there's no weakness for government officials in fighting theft, extortion, drug dealers, drug dealers. I mean, why were the closed parts of the vehicles wanted? To catch the kidnapper, to catch the drug kidnapper. Lies! That's not why it's a law, because it's got its perks, dear friends, it's got its perks. The Turkish Penal Code...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0289par0172	You mixed him up, confused the search with custody.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0173	You listen and find out if I messed it up! You find out!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0289par0174	It's about the custody you told me about.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0175	Listen and learn! Why don't you just listen and learn?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0289par0176	You got it mixed up, it's about custody.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0290par0177	Mr. Bronze, please...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0178	I read it from the mouth of Efkan Ala.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0289par0179	It's about the detention...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0290par0180	Mr. Bronze, why are you interfering?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0181	These are the words of Efkan Ala. I do not speak. These are the words of Efkan Ala. What's he saying?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0289par0182	It's about custody.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0183	Listen well and you'll learn!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0291par0184	Speak without shouting!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0292par0185	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0186	So he can find out!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0291par0187	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0188	I didn't tell you enough! You listen, too!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0189	It's about custody, or what you said.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0190	Look, look... the warrant to search for a crime...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0191	Look at this, this...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0192	Listen to the words of Efkan Ala, Efkan Ala. If your Minister is lying, I don't know. Ask him.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0193	Look at the text, the text.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0194	This is the report from Efkan Ala.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0294par0195	Look at the bill! You're a lawyer, look at the bill!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0196	Look at the bill!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0197	This is the report the Minister said. You tell that to the Minister!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0198	Watch your language. Look at the bill.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0199	Look, he says that friends...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0200	You're out of practice!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0201	Let your Minister come to work then!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0202	Look at the bill!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0295par0203	Mr. Bronze... Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0204	You'll treat me with respect.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0205	And you will treat me with respect.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0295par0206	Mr. Bronze, why are you interfering with your honor? Please...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0207	I'm reading your Minister's presentation report here. This is your Minister's report.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0293par0208	I'm telling you, look at the bill.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0296par0209	Mr. President, let him go to bed! Mr. President, what's this provocateur doing here?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0210	Dear friends, you see, the Penal Code (Criminal Accounting Law) and Operations on the Captured Person (Seconds 90:) can be temporarily captured by everyone, not by the police, but by everyone. In what way? It's when a person is found committing a crime. I mean, one person -- the minister says -- if he's smuggling drugs in the neighborhood, he's robbing, he's stealing, he's giving everyone the right to arrest the police, let alone anyone, even ordinary citizens. Of course, to deceive a citizen, you say that to sell the package of democracy, the package of freedom, to sell it to a citizen, then you're exposed, look at the bill. You say, "You don't listen to the Minister." Now, I'm coming to the Prime Minister's words. Dear friends, Giresun is speaking at the county convention in Giresun.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0297par0213	He listens a lot! You see, he listened to them all!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0214	Look, he says that the police are given extraordinary authority. So I ask you, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, Mr. Bahçeli, Mr. Demirtaş, have you ever studied the EU laws? In the event of violence, we grant 24 hours to the police and 24 hours to the prosecutor. He hasn't read it! He doesn't know about the bill! On the lie...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0298par0216	But you're not talking about the bill!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0217	The D.A. has been deactivated in 24 hours, 48 hours. The D.A. doesn't have jurisdiction in the middle, but the Prime Minister says the prosecutor has jurisdiction over the second 24 hours. So, from his speech, from his speech, from his speech, from his speech, from his speech in the election of Giresun Province. You're going to go ahead with the lie, and no matter how much you sell it, you're going to go on if you can sell it the way you've sold it so far.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0299par0218	He's helping us, thanks to the opposition!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0219	Dear friends, let's come to the second part of the bill. You're destroying the police department in the second part of the bill. You're building a police force, a police force belonging to the Justice and Development Party, a dictatorship police officer who could use as a bat in the hands of a dictatorship.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0299par0220	You'll do it!
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0288par0221	This cop won't do you any good. This police officer does not use the authority you give him, he resists. This cop is not enough to protect the dictatorship. If you're thinking of eliminating human rights in this country by turning the police into police officers, by turning the gendarmes into Ankara MPs, you're not going to be able to do that if you're thinking about teaching people, scaring them, digesting them, you're not going to be able to do that. These people won't allow it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0300par0225	Thank you. Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the department. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0301par0229	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and I bid you good night. First of all, valuable lawmakers, when we started our talks today, we received some sad news. Two F4s in Malatya Erhaç, as our people know it, have crashed and four pilots have lost their lives, and we have expressed our regrets again, but we should probably question the management of the Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defense and the Government. It's out of time, it's out of technology, it's out of time, it's out of order, it's out of control, it's out of control, it's out of control, it's out of control, it's out of control, it's out of control, it's out of control. I think the government and the Ministry should answer for this. The other thing, the valued MPs, you know, closed the General Assembly at nine o'clock this morning. Fortunately, tonight, I think the General Assembly will be closed after this department meeting. But, we all have the question, whether we want to or not, what does a ruling head do to a citizen with the law he calls this kind of persecution of lawmakers, representatives of the people? What doesn't he do on the street anyway? We know that very well. So, today Özgecan was once again the police intervention of women protesting our daughter's murder. The streets are not filled with violence, but in the source of this violence, we will maintain the public order. The demonstrations in the streets threaten the safety of citizens' lives and property, and we bring this law to prevent it. This government, which says, actually gives birth to violence, which brings joy to violence from here. After that, AKP's Deputy Group President says: "If we had passed this law on time, 50 of our citizens would not have died in those Kobani events. " In fact, these words are being said without shame. Behind the deaths of 50 citizens -- we said to investigate -- is the government manipulative behind this death, and in this way in the streets -- let us endure there with Kobane, and let Kobane not die, neither let Kobane fall. Let's not watch the ISIS massacre. When he went out on the streets, 50 citizens were killed by state terror, provocation, manipulation. Again, it was the power mentality that eliminated the safety of those citizens. Now with this law, we see them much better. You remember what the Prime Minister of the period said when the AKP was the first government to hold a rally in the squares? We raised his chest and brought democracy to this country. So, what happened 13 years later? What happened? Why are the state-of-the-art apps being restored? That's what gives the police, the cream, the governor, the minister, the minister, the authority to eliminate the democratic action of the citizen on the street, the authority to destroy it if it can't be stopped, searched, listened, prevented, taken into account, given all these jurisdictional powers to the police on the street... it's so obvious that it's a regime of emergency, it's a regime of martial law. Now, our friends who evaluate the law often say it's a police regime or something, the police state says it, but there's already an application of a police state on the street. On the street, there's a cop who doesn't answer for every crime he's committed, every human rights violation, my officer, I protect him, they write an epic story. But what's brought in by this law? Good boy, go on. Not the safety of the life of the citizen, but my order, my power. I'll do whatever it takes, I'm behind you. There's a law order that says, "I'm behind you." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's clear, it's not public safety, it's the security of power, it's the security of this land order. So, now, of course, I'll get 400 deputies, I'll get the presidential regime. I'll do everything without question, without account, without book. I will appoint whom I will, and I will take what I will; I will hang what I will, and I will cut what I will. This power runs with police power, it walks with force, it runs with despotism. Here's the law of that. Now, it's probably the metal workers whose strikes have been banned that he should see this for the best. See, when metal workers file a lawsuit to lift the strike ban, the government's defence of the Council of Ministers: we need the TOMA, the TOMAs are being made, so it's about national security. What are they doing? It squeezes water in the street, it squeezes pressure on college boys, workers, environmentalists, women, Travelers, and Kobane. But the pressurized water of TOMA was not enough -- you know, at some point -- he's got pictures in the taxi -- something was poured into TOMA's pressurized water with a can of poison, and it was put in the chemical. Now, that's the way to put the chemical, it's a legal cover. Dear lawmakers, the world recommends that these gas bombs be discussed and banned from talking about the disasters and crimes of humanity -- health organizations and our Union of Turkish Medical Medicines -- but you can't get enough gas bombs, you get gas bombs, and you add chemically mixed pressure water. You're giving the police clear authority to shoot. The police have already been hitting you, throwing stones, using marbles, carrying a slingshot, covering your face, tying the bag; you are guilty, you deserve to be shot and you deserve to be punished for three years and five years. Part one is more about these. Now, in the second part that we're going to discuss, how to organize, organize a police force to do this, so, as we've just been told, the government is providing a position in the police force, a police force that will provide its own security. Now, what was the reason for all this? No more Kobane, no more October 6th or 8th, no more Kobane, no more dead citizens. What was it that put people on the streets? The president said he'd fall, he'd fall. But what we've been talking about for the past two days is the relocation of the Solomon Shah Temple. Many of our friends from the opposition are doing the reckoning here; again, they are attacking Kurds; Kobane is being attacked against ISIS; the rights of Kurds who resist the massacres, who fight honorably are not being handed over; the PKK is being attacked as such. Now, are there any soldiers trapped there for six months? Isn't it called land land? But the mistakes in foreign policy, the wrongs, the covert support of ISIS, as a result, the Solomon Shah Temple and the outpost there made it unsecured, and the government had to move it. But the strangest thing is, he does it with such epic news, like a great heroic act, sheets and sheets. Why? That's covering up the internal security law. Why? To show his frustrated foreign policy as if he had won a great victory. It's such a pity. The Prime Minister also threatens the people from there, saying, "You're being arrogant, you're being arrogant." Where's the nerve? When your wrongs are criticized, the punishment for making mistakes is shown in this way, there is no arrogance in that. In fact, if you're running an operation to rescue your own soldiers through Kobane, you're going to hand over one right; nationalism, racism, hostility. People need to learn how to live in peace, in friendship, and how to get rid of gangsta forces. Dear MPs, here's the deputy leader of the group who opposes this law, tends to commit crimes. He said, "We all stood up." We say that those who want to pass this law are actually organizing crime and crime in society. It's obvious. Look, you have a religious youth-growing project, religion-based, religious, so how do those young people grow up now? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Obstruct girls in miniskirts, harass them. The vice principals are appointed in this country. Here, those children, those young men, those young men of reason, will be murderers tomorrow, rapists; see this, I say, give up this love. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0302par0246	He's the only one who's been deposed; it's an isolated incident.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0303par0247	Full, full, full of them.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0304par0248	Thank you. Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants to speak on behalf of himself. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0305par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish God's mercy to the pilots who lost their lives in the accident today. Congressmans, if you are serving in a parliament and your laws are to be implemented in a democracy, you are expected to have a strong sense of democracy. But it's really hard to say that the will to bring the bill that was introduced today to the agenda of the House, let alone a strong sense of democracy, even a minimum sense of democracy. You can't make a law in a parliament that will command and execute legislation and justice, linking it to execution, and leaving it to the mercy and practice of one person. Parliament's authority to make laws is limited to the constitution of lawmaking by parliaments, by internal regulations, and most importantly by universal law norms. There's no law in democracies that eliminates the right to live, you can't offer such a law. Democracy doesn't have a law to suspend democracy, you can't enforce it. You can't bring laws to parliament's agenda to end the separation of forces. You can't make a law and give the police, law enforcement, the freedom of travel of citizens, the privacy of citizens, the freedom of meetings and demonstrations. However, the law we're discussing brings the police state to the country's agenda. Even in Syria and Iran, it is extremely sad to discuss and discuss the agenda of Turkey in 2015. In this country, it is contrary to the general moral code of conduct, not to the constant perception management, but to the perception that it has created, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, even the President, and his mouth, to call those who oppose the law (Bonzacis). [[Applause from CHP rows]] We saw this in yesterday's motions. Apart from you, all opposition parties participated in your minimum standards, but your group rejected their motions to fight the bonza more effectively. Now, how will the Prime Minister go out in those squares and speak the name of Mr. President, and say, "You bonzacis!" Let's see how he looks at the people in those squares from now on? Those who oppose this law are Molotovists. The answer to the prime minister, who moved forward enough to say, came from Idris Naim Şahin. He was your Minister this semester, he was here. We were criticizing, you were defending him. İdris Naim Şahin said that in 2009, in Küçükçükçekmece, İstanbul, members of the MIT had fired the Molotov that caused the high school student Serap Eser to burn to death on the IETT bus. You did not deny it, you did not open an investigation on it, you accepted it. Now, who are you to return to the opposition party, calling it the Molotovists? And the Prime Minister's statement says: "In which European democracy is not a Molotov crime?" It's as if there is no crime in existing legislation in Turkey. These are not approaches to a conscience. And let's be very clear: the biggest mistake, the biggest deception, the biggest perception operation. Many of the articles in this law, even more important, are in Europe, in German law. We've looked at German law, and there's really something in German law called protective custody authority, but they've written the police's example in practice. German law enforcement has identified it as protective custody of a person who's drunk at the risk of freezing in the park, to take him into custody so that he doesn't freeze. Again, the same German law enforcement law says: "What are you trying to do now that you have a restraining order to prevent a person from resisting psychological depression, who is about to burn himself in a gas can?" In German law enforcement, there is no such thing as keeping students coming from banelings to Ankara in a bus one night when they suspect that Angela Merkel will protest, or detaining miners going to Ermenek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] To the end, we are opposed to this law that gives governors, governors, governors of the district, authority of prosecutors and judges, and makes the governors, who should be statesmen, government and Recep Tayyip Erdogan's men. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0306par0266	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0307par0267	Mr. President, it's about the law that I want a pharmaceutical MP to hold down the whole legislature for the sake of the ruling party, when there are so many lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit10spe0306par0268	Mr. Erdoğdu has already passed, thank you. Now, there's going to be a question-answer on the part. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-24sit11spe0306par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 6th place, confirming the Convention on the Protection and Development of the Variety of Cultural Statement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. And since it's clear that the commissions will not be found from now on, by order of the decision, to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order...
tbmm-2015-02-24sit11spe0308par0010	Mr. President, you've ruined the House's reputation. You lied, you lied, you opened the coven! What kind of Parliament is that? I mean, you're making it up to the law. Does that suit you?
tbmm-2015-02-24sit11spe0306par0011	...February 25, 2015, Wednesday at 14 o'clock. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
