tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) who wants to talk about the economic problems of İzmir Province. Here you go, Mr. Sesame. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, if we can please be quiet, we'll be able to listen to the congressman better.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I'm going to talk about Izmir today. I'm going to talk about an eight thousand-year-old city, a multicultural city of tolerance and peace, which is home to many civilizations. I'm going to tell you about the city of Izmir, the city of living together, the city of democracy and modernity, the city of Izmir, which didn't replace anyone else, the city that threw the first bullet at the enemy in the National Liberation War, the city that poured the invaders into the sea. I will tell you about the city where Ataturk had entrusted his mother. I'm going to talk about a city where women express themselves best, where they participate most effectively in social life. The pearl of the Aegean is the star of the Mediterranean, Izmir. I am honored to address you from this bench as the MP of this beautiful Izmir. Izmir is a port city when we want to make the economic definition of this beautiful İzmir. It is also a city of commerce, like all port cities. It is an agricultural city with its plains that feed on the beautiful rivers of the Aegean. Izmir is an industrial city with 16 organised industrial sites and dozens of small industrial sites. Izmir is a city where tourism was first founded and can be said as the capital of tourism. Izmir is the city of renewable energy with its resources. It is a renewable city with wind, sun, geothermal. Izmir is a powerful city of knowledge with its universities and its well-developed human resources. Izmir is a city that is moving towards becoming a growing health centre in developing and changing world conditions. It is a city that is marching towards its goal to become a city of organic agriculture. İzmir paid 41 billion lira in taxes in 2014. It is Turkey's most tax-paying collection by over 95 per cent in tax pay, which is not compensated for what it paid for $4. Izmir is a city with the least number of non-registers, and Izmir is the world's second largest city of metropolitan development, according to recent research. The local government has no debt to the treasure. The credit rating from international financial institutions is AA plus, and this city is a city that can be borrowed without any guarantees or guarantees in debt. These are the good and positive aspects of Izmir, but Izmir wants to grow bigger, more developed. Your port has a demand for growth. The bottom scan is required to leave the port as passengers and cargo and bring in third-generation ships. The Ark of Alekbey is needed to be moved. The construction of Çangarlı Harbor is needed to continue. There's a need for marinas in the Gulf. The removal of division in industrial incentives is needed, and the third territorial incentive to Manisa will be applied to İzmir. There is a need to contribute to agricultural developments. The master's plan of tourism is needed. The marketplaces of Izmir Province are needed to be renovated. Smyrna's status needs to be made. The province of Izmir needs a fair share of private management goods. The lack of the Çanakkale-Izmir highway is needed, instead of what was done in the subway -- as in other cities -- to support the government. Smyrna's political preferences are needed to be respected. İzmir must be rewarded for its political preferences, and should not be punished. Therefore he wishes to share this with all our people, and I salute you on behalf of the Izmirites.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about corruption and political corruption. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0004par0038	I have taken an off-the-book promise on corruption and political corruption. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the violations of legal, religious and moral norms in society in order to benefit from political decision-makers are explained and explained as political corruption. Political corruption comes from the use of public power against the laws, norms and morals of those in power. The content of corruption creates acts and actions to provide private benefit for public harm. In Turkey, there are those who have been brought to high-level positions before entering KPSS, who have been appointed as primary school teacher, who have been promoted from bartender to expert in the European Union, who have been promoted from fire department to head of the department. V.I.P. torpedo lists, printed officers, bureaucrats branded with colored lists, are proof that political corruption peaked during the AKP era. Turkey faces a power to prosecute those who tried in the Lighthouse case and to question those who questioned in the December 17th-25 corruption and bribery case. The AKP itself has become the source of corruption and political corruption. So that the ruling people can say that corruption has no effect on us even as much as a mosquito bite. For the AKP, those who fight corruption are the problem, not the corrupt ones. The state of the Republic of Turkey has never witnessed such a period when corruption became so public and legitimate. Fighting corruption or not, it shows a sense of government. On the other hand, democratic states face less bribery and corruption than autocratic states. Press freedom, transparency, freedom of information and freedom, fair trial, effective control restricts corruption in democratic countries. If a country has a restraining order on almost every corruption, a confidentiality decision or an intervention in the legal system, the fight against corruption is also covered. Power and secrecy corrupt power. Corruption of power ultimately corrupts politics. The corruption of politics also emerges as bribery and corruption. Bribery and corruption are more political than economics. The process of secession and profiting will undermine the principle of transparency of democracy. As a result of political corruption, democratic institutions lose their function over time. It breeds a form of corruption called plutocracy, which is the democracy of interest and pressure groups. Today, the country's horizon has been closed by allegations of corruption, looting, bribery, torpedoes and rant during AKP rule. More serious is that the ruling authorities, in their statements, declare that they are lawful, and that they are unjust, and that they are justified in doing wrong. The AKP's mentality advocates corruption with unlawful freedom, and torpedo and nepotism with religious references to protect and protect relatives. First of all, this is a major insult to the Islamic religion of the Supreme. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces today a problem of corruption and political corruption, while a lawless President who violates the Constitution and laws. In Article 104 of the Constitution, the President has been given many duties and powers, but there is no daily policy within them. It is against the Constitution to say that the President wants to enter the presidential system and ask people to vote for the AKP in Kırşehir. It is against the Constitution, it is a crime, it is a violation of the Constitution. On this stand, all MPs have sworn honor and honor that they would protect the Constitution. I call on all lawmakers to take this oath, to take action against President Erdoğan, who openly violated the Constitution, corrupting politics, by making it political and biased. Erdogan is in the United Nations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the world is bigger than five. Right, the world is bigger than five, and Turkey is bigger than Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0005par0047	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Nüğde MP Doğan Şafak (Nüğde) who wants to speak about the problems of the province of Niğde. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0006par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, my friends, I have taken an off-the-book promise about the problems of our Niğde province. The problems of Niğde have been waiting 13 years for solutions. In 1996, the football-type airport, which began construction in the Emen Plain of Niğde, has not been finished for 18 years. Right now, the airport's construction sign and fences have been ripped off and the land has become a pasture for animals. In 2012, Mr. Bülli Yıldırım, former Minister of Transport Yıldırım, responded that there were no plans for airport construction and investment in Niğde. The high-speed train project does not cover Niğde. A nail has not been nailed to the courthouse, the toilet has been renovated and the judge's room has been built. The work of the Niğde-Ankara Highwayway is as advanced as a stone during this administration. Although there are 22,400 students at the University of Niğde, there are only 5,500 beds in our province. Most of the students face housing problems. The customs office in our province was closed in 1999. The closure of this office has damaged exporters both financially and spiritually. The customs office must be reopened in the mining sector and in our province, which is open to development in agriculture. Dear lawmakers, there are not enough investments in the Niğde Bor Sugar Factory; they are looking for opportunities to sell the factory. The staff problem of temporary workers who work here has been dragging on for years. The problem of road workers who are rightfully and temporarily employed by the court must be resolved immediately. There are no new investments and recruitments at the Bor Military Factory. Last year there was a flood in our farm, Bozköy, and Divarli towns; infrastructure, bridges, and roads within the town were completely destroyed. The people of Bozköy lost their livestock, flooded their farms, and our farmer was harmed. Although the town of Bozköy and Divarlı was identified, no aid has been given and no funding has been left. In our province, which contributes to production of more than 13 per cent of all five types of agricultural products in Turkey, beet producers suffer economically from quota practices; cabbage, apples, potatoes, wheat producers, because of the lack of goods, expensive fertilizer and diesel cost. The application period for gas and fertilizer support for farmers must be extended. Our farmers are unable to pay their debts to the former state because the electricity debt is not structured by the private company. Some of the manufacturers were paid for the frosting in the villages of Dündar, Hacıbeyli, Sazlıca, Bahçlı, and other fruits, but some of the manufacturers were not paid in the same conditions. In another important source of income, livestock are on the verge of bankruptcy because imports have cut prices in half after the delivery of expensive bait prices. As in agriculture, in livestock, corporateization crushes and destroys small farmers. The province of Niğde is not covered by Ipard. The Akkaya Dam, which is declared a wet area of international importance between Niğde and Bor districts, threatens human health due to pollution. University students, primarily Niğde central, are breathing poison every day because of the pollution of the Akkaya Dam. During this administration, our city ran out of oxygen. Some 50 percent of our citizens' farms were registered for the treasure as a result of the arrival of cadastros in many of our villages and misprocessing them. Every year, they're sent behind their backs with their medical bills. Despite our project-based proposals, the government does not show the necessary interest or investment in the Çamardi-Aladağs Dam Lake Project (Public) and the Ulukishla-Bolkar Mountains Ski Project. The potential of tourism in the province of Niğde is being ignored. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who entered the system. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2014 you made a decision by the Council of Ministers that the farmers who owed money for agricultural irrigation should not be paid to support these debts until they were paid. We've cancelled this Council of Ministers' decision in court, but you're still not paying the citizen's support premiums. Here we offer you two options: shall we press charges against the Public Prosecutor's Office or will you pay the citizen's support under this court order? If you're not going to do this -- when are you going to come back and apologize to the citizen for your disgrace -- to the people who robbed this country with sacks, to the people who were in need of it, to the people who stole the money? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. O AKP and O Minister of Interior, are you aware of what is happening in the southeast, in the private area? In case you haven't noticed, the PKK is working hard to dig up the state from Cizre. KCK courts and the organisation have activated its own judicial system in Cizre. It began in tents first, and in the final process, in abandoned buildings, creating its own parallel outposts and penal system. If a citizen encounters a problem, they are not allowed to apply anywhere but themselves. The thief was also sentenced to death after being warned three times when the child was older. Businessmen were forced to emigrate or executed under the name tax, and those who didn't. You're sitting there because we're in power. This is what the PKK does. O government, what do you do for this? The Turkish people want to learn from you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0009par0076	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0011par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. He died in the violent lotos Çanakkale. Abdullah Aydemir died from a blunt object falling from the roof. I offer him my mercy and my condolences to his relatives. It has done a great deal of damage to greenhouses in the town of Lodos Lapseki and the town of Tzardak. Nearly 90 per cent of the manufacturers' greenhouses report that they have been damaged and helpless and ask authorities for help. Also, our villages in Lapseki, Çall, Biga, Yenice have been without electricity for seven or eight days. What can be done in order to assess the damage done to our greenhouses who have been damaged by the Lodos, if they haven't been done, to determine the damage as soon as possible, to compensate for the damage, and to heal the wounds? They wanted me to announce them to the government, and in that sense, they wanted their hands extended immediately. And once again, the hoodos...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Union of the Turkish Revolutionary Trade Unions METAL-HIS Union have launched a strike demanding a human life and compensation for their efforts. The workers at Mersin had contributed to this honorable resistance. However, this honorable resistance has been banned, given the basis of national security, with a fascist practice not seen even during the times of the coup. What does national security have to do with the workers' righteous strike? If there is a danger to national security, the danger would be the AKP mentality, and there could be no one else in the AKP mentality. Whatever the AKP government does, the working class, especially Mersin, will continue to seek the rights of labour work in the entire country, and will answer to AKP in general elections. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0014par0089	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Dear Bak Bak...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0015par0092	Mr. President, we've made significant investments in changing the face of Gaziantep in the last 13 years. We've raised the number of universities in our city to 4. We've increased the amount of scholarships distributed to our students from $2.4 million to 46.4 million. We've tripled our home capacity. In 2002, we raised our class number to 12,000 in 2014. We've increased the amount of social benefits of $4.3 million a year to $266.5 million, and we've delivered them to those in need. We have built 21,000 new dwellings, including 7,500 of them in urban transformation. We've completed 244 kilometers of the 340km split road network. We've employed over 120,000 people in our organized industrial districts alone. A total of 896 million agricultural...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0014par0094	Thank you, Mr Bak Bakk. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0016par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. The Metropolitan Municipality, which oversells the bridge and the wrong airport projects in the wrong place, is unable to provide solutions to the citizens' real problems. Our district of Ataşehir, Yenisahra, Barbaros, Lover Veysel, Mustafa Kemal, Inderenköy, Küçükbakkalköy neighborhoods are not being carefully planned by the city. The citizen is seriously victimized. We've been a ghost town for three years. As we've seen for three more days, traffic is unbearable. There is a construction under the name of the maid's house, which is being built in the Validebaga Grove. Sultanbeyli has not received electricity bills for two or three months, and the citizen has been severely victimised. All the roofs began to flow in the first rain at the track heart hospital and the subway. We ask that the citizens be dealt with these problems that seem small to them.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Your Highness...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. In my constituency district of Tekirdağ, the lotos, which remained in effect in Tekirdağ, have negatively affected life, especially in the area of Sulejmanpaşa, which has been produced under the covers, the greenhouses have been damaged in our Naip neighborhood. Due to the Lodos, our Naipli manufacturers, the only source of livelihood, have suffered victimhood and are waiting for help at once. I wish you well from here to our manufacturers and Edirne, who has been struggling with the flood for days. Another disaster in our region -- it's not natural -- but it's a disaster by the government -- is happening in our Seymen neighborhood. A private company rented 200 acres in the forest area within the borders of our Seymen neighborhood two years ago and opened a quartzite sand stove, but then shut it down. The same company wants to re-open the sand furnace by raising the 200 acres to 1,800 acres. My people of Seymen and Chorus, who provide for their livelihood in agriculture and livestock, do not want the sand stove to be built near the fields they farmed, where they grazed the animals, and the forest to be plundered.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0019par0106	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0020par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. The Marmaris Turgut Elementary School is intended to be closed as an excuse for lack of students and physical inadequacies. But the students of the school, the inhabitants of the village, with the spirit of image, have painted the school inside and out, cleaned the garden, even built a chess room. Why is the Turgut Elementary closed? President Ethiopia gives good news that he will open a school, and are our students less valuable? My second question: An elderly maintenance technician, home care technician staff has not been identified, but the technician staff has not been identified. Therefore, the area of sick and old services... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...patient maintenance technicians can't make a choice, they can't make a choice, they're out in the open because they don't have staff and job descriptions. Will there be a staff and a job description for technicians?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0022par0117	Mr. President, students and parents who attend Hüseyin Avni Aryoğlu Middle School in Gediz district of İzmir Buca are facing an unfair attack and insult by the National Education Directorate. Three out of the four blocks of the Fireoğlu campus went to imam-hatip secondary school and 15-20 people were educated in these classrooms, while only 1 block was left to secondary school and -- while our National Education Minister is here -- 45 or 55 people had to attend the same classroom. This campus is a 40-acre campus and a new secondary school is being built. Although this school is now built as a secondary school -- three blocks -- and education in imam-gathering secondary school -- the new secondary school is also being asked to be re-assigned to imam-host, even though it is being held as middle school. The talks with Buca County National Education Director were held with the parents. Please, I don't want you to...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0021par0120	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0023par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. The University of Kahramanmarash Milker Imam was founded in 1992. The number of students, the number of students established in those years has now reached 100,000, but unfortunately our University of Kahramanmarash Milkyman is trying to continue its studies around 25 to 30,000. Of course, our university has a lot of problems. Lacks of social and sports facilities at the very beginning. A 25-metre swimming pool, which is now scheduled for inside our university, unfortunately, is not enough to respond to the needs of both the university and Kahramanmarash. It needs a 50-metre swimming pool in Kahramanmarash and its territory. Also, Kahramanmarash has a medical school in our university, but unfortunately, he doesn't have a building, he has an architecture engineering school, which unfortunately has been left unfinished. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0024par0127	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0025par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the strike carried out by the DİSK Union's METAL-HIS Union is seen to be a violation of national security, it was agreed on 29/1/2015 by the Council of Ministers to postpone it for 60 days. So the Council of Ministers met on Thursday (January 29th) on Thursday (January 2015), discussed the matter thoroughly and postponed the strike because it was seen to be disrupting national security. However, there was no meeting of the Council of Ministers at that time, the last meeting of the Council of Ministers was held on 26 January 2015. Prime Minister 11th on January 29th. At a ceremony at 00, 13. He met with the President, the Chief of Staff at 15.30, with the Undersecretary of MIT at 16.30, 17. He attended the solution process meeting at 00. There is no record of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2015. There is a decision to postpone a strike by an unassembled Council of Ministers. Most of the ministers didn't even know about it. A very serious issue, such as national security, has not been on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, has been postponed on paper. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The next Council of Ministers meeting has been delayed in a hurry, without a need to wait. Since the Council of Ministers has not met, the Council of Ministers has signed it by hand. That's a no-delay rule.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0026par0134	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0027par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to pass along the wishes of the paramedics who called us from Slap County. The doctor, the medical officer, the nurse and the assistant medical staff are asking for studies to improve their rights. In particular, not all health workers who have come into retirement are able to retire because of the low salary. They want all of the medical staff's wages to be counted from the fact that they have a pension and a pension that they can provide for. The voice of the medical staff is expected to be heard by the Ministry of Health and the government. I wanted to pass that along. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0028par0140	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Selvi...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0029par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Nüğde MP, who was off the agenda, spoke of the problems of the province of Doğan Şaş Nüğde. Of course, he mentioned a lot of things, and it's not possible for me to answer all of this in a minute, but I'd like to talk about a few of the notes I took. First of all, our congressman talked about the courthouse. Our courthouse will be tendered as soon as possible. Of course, due to some legal arrangements here, there have been construction and project renovations. 46 million projects, our valuable building, our courthouse, hopefully, will be auctioned off to construction as soon as possible. Our Prime Minister had already addressed our highway from the stand when he read the government program. That's one of the things we're going to do as soon as possible, in two stages. Our university, yes, has a dorm problem, which is Turkey's problem, but they're starting construction right now -- our 4,000-man dorm will start next year. Other than that, the KYK has built 515 homes from its own budget, and our home for a thousand is now under contract. I'm trying to move fast. He said our province was not evaluated under IPArd. Yes, under the IPARD, our Niğde...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0030par0150	Thank you, Mr. Selvi. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0031par0153	Mr. President, thank you. Yeah, it's our question... we're making a lot of calls, we're telling you, but our Transport Minister isn't coming either. Of course, that's what I'm saying to get him to hear it. Our Adana's Kozan-Feke... they call it the divided road, here, we'll expand it. They say it, but I don't think they're paying the public price. No environmental arrangements, then, no markings, no intersections. It's been four or five years since the constant deaths, the traffic accidents. Well, the power is going well, they say. Yes, Mr. Secretary, the General Directorate of the Highways; we'll give him his name, and he'll take care of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0032par0157	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0033par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. The road to Kütahya-Balıkesir, which connects the Anatolian to the Aegean, has been a story of lies for years and cannot be opened. On the other hand, the double road to Çanakkale-Balayesir, which will connect Europe to Balıkesir, again to Aegean Province, has not been completed. The construction of these two roads will contribute greatly to Balıkesir's economy, tourism, and the Aegean. We ask the Balıkesirs to complete the government's failure.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0032par0162	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The hunger strike of political Kurd prisoners entered its fifty-sixth day today. In order to prevent death from taking place in the attacks on the critical threshold, the removal of the isolation of the activists on Mr Abdullah Ocalan; the start of negotiations by providing freedom, security and health conditions to play the role of the Kurdish problem; the right to defence and education in his native language; the end of the hunger strike they have launched to remove Kurdish use in public space; and for this reason, we propose that the Parliament should meet its responsibility in this sense; and for the opening of Article 10th and 10th Articles of the Constitution in order to create dialogue. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey's prisons have been on hunger strike for fifty-six days. Thousands of Kurds, including political activists, representatives of the NGO and journalists, are being held illegally in prisons, including children, women, old and young. This approach sums up the AKP's understanding of finding a solution to the Kurdish problem, as well as the real reason for the hunger strike. So the government is responsible, Mr. Prime Minister. According to the government's official statement, 682 prisoners were on non-existent hunger strike with those who joined since September 12th, about 64th. A recent statement by hunger strike activists on the lack of answers suggests that the number of activists will be 10,000. Actors who have been on hunger strike, as the public knows, are demanding the removal of the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and the start of negotiations, acceptance of defence rights in his native language, and regulations to remove obstacles in Kurdish and public use. Demands are political, legitimate, and meetable demands. At the same time, Turkey is also accepted by the public, which has been demanded by millions of Kurds. In fact, the immediate demand to remove the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and launch the talks would save Turkey from this conflict and extremely worrying environment due to the unresolved Kurdish problem. Therefore, Mr. Abdullah Ocalan needs to be interviewed immediately. Every day the isolation continues, hunger strike activists are one step closer to death. Hunger strikes were initially launched in Diyarbakır D Type D and Diyarbakır Type E Women's Prison, Kandira 1 and 2 F Type F Prison, Siirt E Type E and Siirt Type E Women's Prison, Rize L Type Prison and Bolu Type F Type F Prison in a total of 64 political prisoners. The government's failure to act responsibly and to raise a debate on demands is causing new turnouts every day. The content of demands is democratic rights. Besides, hundreds of political prisoners are being held in prison for expressing these demands. Students, children, women are accused of attending rallies, demonstrations and walks where education is required in the main language. There are hundreds of prisoners who have been held in prison for seeking defence in their native language alone and have not been tried. Courts don't listen to prisoners who defend their native language, refuse interpreter requests, prisoners are removed from the courtroom before their defences are taken. Instead of finding a solution to the problem, Turkey is consciously pushing public opinion into a hostile attitude towards Kurds. For this reason, in many cities, Kurds' workplaces are burned down, their houses surrounded, Kurds are subjected to lynching in the middle of the street. Although it has been said that a study on defence rights will be done shortly in its native language, the continued strict isolation policy on Mr Abdullah Ocalan, which millions of Kurds have declared as political will, and the absence of steps on education in the native language shows that hunger strikes cannot be ended this way. The government is trying to digest and hide the agenda, trying to digest the areas that make the problem visible and sensitive. The government's approach to the problem is illegitimate and provocative. The steps he claims to have taken regarding the Kurdish problem do not correspond to the solution to the problem. On the contrary, these steps are tactical moves aimed at creating public reactions to Kurdish democratic demands, condescending to Kurds, excluding them, deepening inequality. Hunger strikes are an act aimed at establishing the basis for Turkey's unresolved Kurdish problem, where activists put their lives on the line. Therefore, these demands need to be opened to talks, and they need to be resolved on a democratic basis. Likewise, to prevent any possible antidemocratic intervention in the prison, parliament must take office, take responsibility. Therefore, we find it appropriate for a parliamentary investigation to meet the demands of the activists by discussing them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To ensure the end of the hunger strike actions launched on its 17th day and with legitimate demands, the demands of the activists will be met without death, the exact, permanent, and necessary legal measures to meet the demands, and the establishment of a commission in parliament called "The Dialogue and Compromise Group" in the Kurdish issue to ensure a real negotiation process in the Kurdish issue. And 105. We provide and propose the clauses. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Kurdish prisoners in Turkey's prisons have been on hunger strike for fifty-seven days, as the conflict is increasingly intense. The number of activists is growing. A group of political, acceptable, legitimate demands are prisoners who have been on hunger strike since September 12th, while the rest of them have been on hunger strike in the days following that date. Their demands are that the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and the start of talks be recognised in his native language as defence and the right to education in the native language. The demands are very clear and are key to solving the Kurdish problem. There is a strong will in the public to accept these demands. Writers, artists, NGOs and many parts of society have been called to the Prime Minister to accept demands and end hunger strikes. But so far, there have been no responsible statements from the government wing. In the first phase, the removal of the lockdown will mean that Mr. Abdullah Ocalan will take part in the end of the hunger strike and will prevent death in hunger strikes. In such a period of intense conflict, not even discussing the demands of the hunger strike activists shows that more lives will be lost in every way. The removal of the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and the role of millions of people to play for peace is also a demand. For these demands to be adopted, a debate should be opened in parliament, creating a commission, opening a solution. The "Dialog and Negotiation Group" that will be formed in parliament must take initiative to prevent possible death or antidemocratic intervention. Hunger strike activists are political prisoners. There are those who have been sentenced to life in prison. There are mayors, BDP employees, politicians, journalists, children, women, elderly people who have been arrested as part of TK operations. They're Kurds in prison because they want the same demands out there. A negotiation and discussion must be created for the adoption of demands. Otherwise, this will start a more dangerous process. Because all Kurdish political activities have been blocked under the Anti-Terror Act. Operations are in progress. Prisons are packed. Courts decide cases without listening to the prisoners. Thousands of prisoners are being held hostage in prison without being brought to trial. The elected MPs are not being released. Kurds being held in prison are considered criminals because they demand democratic rights, not given the right to defend themselves in their native language. It's only a matter of time before the deaths take place. The demands of the number of activists growing daily must be discussed immediately, creating a negotiation environment. In the face of this, Parliament must play its role, and the government must take responsibility by admitting that the demands are legitimate. All efforts by the Peace and Democracy Party to open a debate in parliament to end hunger strikes have been blocked, and their motions have been rejected. In this regard, we find it appropriate for parliament to form a commission under the name "The Dialogue and Negotiation Group in the Kurdish Problem" or as a partner. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to establish the problems of children living and being forced to work on the streets in Turkey, to create concrete projects for solving problems, to determine measures to prevent violence against children, and to open a parliamentary research commission for concrete proposals such as children's rights institutions, such as asylums, the Constitution's 98th, Internal Charter 104, and 105th Articles of the Constitution shall be required to open a parliamentary investigation. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] According to UNICEF's figures, between 100 and 120 million street children live in the world, and there are no studies for Turkey, so the exact number is unknown. Because of immigration, economic difficulties and social problems, the increase in street children has increased, especially in cities such as Istanbul, Diyarbakır. There are 700,000 street children in Istanbul and more than 20,000 in Diyarbakir. It is known in the Metropolis that street children face more problems. Studies show that street children face many problems such as violence, harassment, drug addiction, forced labor, failure to continue their education. Of course, each city's problems differ, especially for Istanbul, while the problems of children who work on the street and live in the streets are a priority. One of the biggest reasons these children are on the streets at risk is poverty. Children, most affected by poverty in Turkey, are also seen as an important resource in the labour market. The situation of street children is different in some ways. Children who have to live on the street and have no families come out as the most disadvantaged group. In addition, children who are with their family, who are working at very low wages in textile workshops, along with problems of migration and poverty, face labour exploitation. In addition, children who are unable to continue their studies are deprived of many of their health and social rights. In the 2004 report published by 50 international organisations working on child rights, violence has been found to be the main reason why children are pushed into the street in 69 countries. According to the report, many children who work on the streets are afraid to return home because of violence, while it is not enough to fight poverty, immigration and other dimensions should also be considered. In the report, Turkey is ranked the 92nd in the world in terms of the protection of children living and working on the streets. Children who have been abused by war, migration and social violence are said to be the most risky groups. Violence is seen by their families as well as by social services. Legally speaking, the "Children's Rights Convention" signed by Turkey in 1990 seems to be an important step in protecting children, but it is not as fast and functional as it is expected to be implemented. Again, in Article 41 of the Constitution, the protection clause for children is brought in, but the protection of children, especially children in need of protection, is more immediate. Many reasons for children's shelters are unresolved, the lack of child welfare institutions are unresolved, and the lack of a solution to problems remain unresolved. The problems of street children must be studied in all dimensions, within the framework of universal child rights. Germany is trying to solve the health problems of 20,000 street children with health centres. As a result of the European Union's work on this issue, housing and health centres for children in countries such as Finland, Belgium and Spain have been provided by the public. The situation of street children, especially in Istanbul, where immigration is intense, should be uncovered, and it is important to establish living centres where children can stay and solve the housing issue, to determine concrete initiatives to prevent child labor. We propose a parliamentary research commission for identifying the problems of children living and being forced to work on the streets, building concrete projects for solving problems, setting up measures to prevent violence against children, and listening to concrete proposals for asylums of children's rights institutions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. I'll have the motion read, but since the motion is more than 500 words, the summary will be read. The full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Review. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz demands and requires that the gene be opened in accordance with Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Constitution. Bulent Kuşoğlu Ali İhsan İkturk Kemal Ekinci Doğan Günah İhsan Kalkavan Turgay Develi İhsan Özkes Hasan Akgöl Süleyman Çelebi Osman Faruk Logogoğlu İzzet Cetin Mevlüt Dudu Faik Öztrak Free Oğuz Oyan Hursit Sun Sinan Aydın Aygün Mahmut Tanal Bornt Tezcan Tanju Özcan Kadir Gökmen Öğümün The disaster, which resulted in the deaths of 301 people in Soma on May 13, 2014, has also brought up many problematic issues, as well as errors, negligence, irregularities and corruption of Turkey's Coal Corporations General Directorate and Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources officials. There are two companies in the Soma mining site, where the disaster took place, where TKI General Directorate has signed. These are the Imbat Inc and Soma Inc, which operate in redevance and service contracts. The agreements with İmbat IŞ and Soma Inc were initially in accordance with legislation, without problems, but by 2013, both companies were given bigger jobs than previous jobs without tenders and without the decision of the Governing Body. With these transactions that seem intentional, the amount of corruption to both companies is a minimum of $4 billion. As concerned as it is with bureaucrats who are responsible for certain transactions, which are illegal and ultimately damaging the public, carried out by the Turkish Coal Administration, it is Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. In fact, when presented months ago to his own knowledge, he showed that he was responsible in the first degree, especially with his attitude that the transactions were carried out within his own consent, protecting firms and relevant bureaucrats. A reasonable and minimal calculation of the work done by the TKI General Directorate without tender and without the Governing Body's decision suggests that the sum of $1.6 billion in Soma AS is exceeded by $2.5 billion in terms of a ten-year extension, while the amount of 13 years in the Imbat Agency is estimated at $2.5 billion. As an experienced Minister of Energy and Resources Minister Taner Yildiz should know exactly what it means to be given such large sums in public without proper legislation, but when such a situation arises and is warned, the role of TİKI General Directorate officials and firms is clearly misused. Minister Star is the head of such corruption and corruption. As it turns out from the media scan, there are specific remarks, sympathy, and support for these two firms. The minister has not used his authority positively, he has abused it. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz is required and required to be opened in accordance with Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. A recommendation from the Council on the day of the meeting on whether or not your client will be taken into consideration will later be submitted to your approval. Members of parliament, the Commission on the Equality of Women's Opportunities and Human Rights Review also has a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (February 9th 2015) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three statements, which I will read separately and submit to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Representatives of New Zealand of Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Turkish Parliament, has been submitted to the draft of the General Assembly on February 8th to February 11, 2015, as well as to the adoption of the Constitutional Council of Turkey's General Assembly of Turkey, 28/3/1990, and 3620, to respond to the invitations of Singapore's Parliament Speaker Halimah Yacob.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0034par0363	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit01spe0032par0364	I will, sir. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The decision was not enough for the first Turkish Parliamentary Assembly to vote. Now, I'm going to re-vote the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there seems to be no sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0035par0004	Mr. President, don't you count opposition?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0032par0005	Congressmans, no, I mean, look...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0036par0006	There are 117 people, President, 117 people...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0037par0007	Let's do it electronically...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit02spe0032par0008	I'm taking a ten-minute break. You can't even see enough to do it with electronics.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. In the second vote of the first Turkish Parliamentary Assembly, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the thesis to your votes for the third time, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough, there is enough, there is enough. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On February 9, 10th, 2015, a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly will be held in New York City of the United States on "The Appliance Tools of the Post-2015 Development Agenda." The issue of accession to this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is presented to the General Assembly's approvals on the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, on February 22-26, 2015, to respond to the invitation of the Canadian House of Commons, President Andrew Scheer. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, now, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council resolutions adopted since 2008 on piracy/sea banditry and armed robberies in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, the Gulf of Aden, Somalia and its gaps, and the United Nations Security Council decree dated 10/2/2009 and issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 934/2010 for a year, which has been extended by a number of decisions dated 2/2/2010 and carried out by armed forces in the region of Turkey and has been active in the area of Turkey's armed operations and has been linked with the armed forces in the region and has been linked to the armed forces of Turkey and in the region. The UN Security Council's decisions, which continue to take place in the designated areas of piracy/sea banditry and armed robbery, have been extended one more year with the resolution dated 12/11/2014, which has led to the international community's fight. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces are assigned to the government for the deployment of naval elements in the Gulf of Aden, Somali territorial waters and deficits, the Arab Sea and the mujavir regions, and I shall issue a year-long extension of the Constitution in accordance with Article 10/2/2014 and Article 92 from 10/2/2015. I will negotiate on the Prime Minister's Office according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government and ten minutes for individuals. Now, I'm reading the names of the members of the MPs who have taken over the thesis: Van MP Nazmi Gür on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Kokkar on behalf of the government, Milli Defence Minister Ismet Yılmaz; on behalf of individuals, Adana MP Osman Faruk Logoğlu, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I would like to call Van MP Nazmi Gür. Here you go, Mr. Gür. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0038par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we have a new thesis on Turkey's proposal by the United Nations Security Council in the framework of the prevention of piracy and piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia in this region. Before we go into our conversation right now, we are, in principle, opposed to these kind of militant approaches and to the fact that soldiers are being sent abroad, out of Turkey, as a party. As we salute the General Assembly, we would like to share with you our views, our thoughts on this matter. Dear friends, one of the most troubling issues during the 12-year period of AKP power is the foreign policy that the government maintains and insists on its mistakes. This is not only in the Middle East, but in the geography he lives in, but in other countries of the world, he continues to have a similar policy. The success of these policies, of course, is the success that is being questioned, and it can't really be mentioned as a success, we can all talk about a failure in the government's foreign policy. There's no need to go too far, the whole world now sees that the government's political foreign policy on the Syrian issue is now bankrupt, especially in the Middle East issue. We're not the only ones who say this with opposition criticism; they say that the world's leading countries, institutions, organizations, Turkey, especially about Syria and Iraq, a serious political error in Middle Eastern politics, a strategic error in the matter of the Middle East, and that they have made a mistake on the fault. One of the most important and warm evidence is the controversy surrounding Kobani and Kobani. The government's position on this issue is very clear, and the government's approaches and especially the approaches of the President after the victory of Kobani and Kobani are truly thought-out, really offensive, and if I'm in the right, it's almost as if they didn't expect this victory. But in Kobani, the combined democratic forces led by the YPG managed to defeat this dark organization and now continue their war on the rescue of all the villages of Kobani. And in the future, I believe that about 200,000 Kobanili -- in a short time -- will take action to rebuild their country, their cities, their villages, and to build a new life, and to root out the Rojava revolution. From here, I salute and congratulate all the forces that have triumphed over the DEVIL barbarians in Rojava, and especially Kobani. Dear friends, another important issue: Turkey's foreign policy -- it is useful to emphasize before it comes to Somalia -- has been following a very wrong and method in the European Union process, almost forgetting about the European Union. If you ask the government, there are options outside the European Union, but it is clear that the government's options are not an option, they are not a strategic goal for Turkey; an international organisation such as the Shanghai Five, of course, cannot be an alternative to the European Union, which Turkey wants to become a full member of. Therefore, Turkey must quickly remove the European Union process from the refrigerator, and if it is serious about the European Union, concrete and serious steps must be taken. Otherwise, this package of security, which will be brought to the agenda of this Parliament in a few days and will certainly be a step back from democracy, human rights, freedoms, has nothing to do with the European Union and important international organisations such as the Council of Europe, which Turkey is a member of. Turkey side to international contracts. It was a police state, which would turn Turkey into a police state, which restricts freedom, democracy, human rights as a whole, which would turn Turkey into a police state, and it would come with an approach that would turn it into a very good police state. This is a concrete indication of how Turkey made an eye when it said to make an international move, in fact, to make an eyebrow. Dear friends, here is a thesis that will send naval forces to Somalia, of course, Turkey and will allow naval forces to operate in that area. I'd like to read you a little bit of this thesis, and I'd like to read you a few phrases, which are: "The effective preservation of the safety of Turkish Flag and Turkish-connected commercial ships and international community-run piracy and armed robberies, which have been enabled to participate actively in the action of combat operations in the United Nations system and in the regional scale. I want to repeat a sentence here that has been ensured that we play a regional role in the United Nations system and that we play a regional role in the United Nations system. Therefore, we do not think that such a role exists, and especially these very important dear friends: strengthening the image of Turkey as a country, both in Europe and in the world. It is clear how this image was perceived on the international scale during the 12-year AKP ruling period, and how Turkey was seen. If you really want to understand this, you need to go to Turkey's neighbours or any country far or near Turkey and ask for the image of Turkey. Of course, you may describe the beauty of Turkey, the shish kebab, but you don't want to talk about democracy, human rights problems, and other deep issues that Turkey is having, because that kind of progress is out of the question. Now, as for this matter of visibility, about the Gulf of Aden, the coast of Somalia, and the protection of all commercial ships in that region, I don't think Turkey has been seen or wanted to be seen internationally with its co-operation in this area, and we don't think it's possible to agree, it's impossible to agree with the government's opinion. In fact, Turkey has only internationally, and so have we, and we have sent several ships, and we are fighting against international piracy and terrorism. Dear friends, the Gulf of Aden is, of course, an extremely important area for international order. About 20,000 commercial ships pass through those areas, most of them cargo ships and most of them oil and gas ships again. So for the West, it's very important for other countries in the region that use this area, but it's important to evaluate what kind of country Somalia is, what kind of country it is -- if you want it. We should take a look at Somalia. Dear friends, Somalia is one of the most important countries to be exploited by all international forces out of colonialism. In fact, if Somalia were left to the Somali people... The subterranean and subterranean wealth and the right operating and operating of rich fish beds on the coast of the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Eden in that region, in favor of this country, of course, have been suggested as one of the greatest reasons for piracy, or what is referred to as fearfulness. Because if you look at the work done here, the work done by some strategic research organizations here, you'll find that if there really is a movement in the Somali region, if there is a piracy movement, the Somali people are condemned to poverty as a whole. Again, it is known that over 85% of the people of Somalia are Muslims. In this Muslim country, it is also useful to say that the AKP government, especially in the Somali region, has no serious approach to Sudan and countries in this region, because Somali pirates communicate in talks that they do not see themselves as pirates. For them, they use their own shores, their own land, and they take what is theirs, so they justify it. In the international area, the people of Somalia also find it extremely difficult because they do not obey international rules. That's how Somalia demonstrates its reaction to its exploitation. Again, especially with the use of Korea and Japan to exploit almost all fish beds on the coast of Somalia, in the Gulf of Aden, against Somalia, and their approach to disregard all international rules in this regard has pushed Somalis and Somali fishermen to stand up to them armedly; it is also useful to highlight. Again, dear friends, Somalia has become almost an international dump. Thousands of unidentified ships are dumping all toxic chemical waste, especially nuclear waste, into Somalia, which, of course, creates a reaction. The people of Somalia, the garbage of the world, especially not wanting to be the dumpster of chemicals and other nuclear materials, have, of course, advocated such a move to protect both its environment and its country and its country's future. Therefore, those who go to Somalia, those who guard their own commercial interests in Somalia, should also listen to this voice and this approach to Somalia. Otherwise, dear friends, we are of no use to the people of Somalia by sending a few ships to Somalia, where we watch over international trade. On the contrary, in order to save Somalia from those who exploit Somalia, this country must provide support. This may be the only way to remove the international colonialism in Somalia and allow the Somali people to use all the wealth underground and aboveground for the Somali people, and that is the only way to extend the hand of friendship. Otherwise, sending a few ships or several hundred soldiers to Somalia with an approach to protect the interests of the imperialists in order to be part of the international system is an extremely humiliating approach for us to keep watch over them. If Turkey is truly a democratic country, if it really is a country that will be in solidarity with other countries, with other peoples, instead of sending troops to Somalia, it needs to demonstrate an approach that will improve Somalia, improve democracy in Somalia, improve human rights, and be in solidarity with Somalia. Otherwise, the fact that several heavily armed ships are traveling through that area does not mean that some oil companies and other large world companies are trying to protect their interests in that region, renewing or renewing image in the international system. On the contrary, the Somali people turn out to be negative points. If you really want to win the hearts of the people of Somalia, instead of this thesis, you have to organize international solidarity that will rebuild Somalia, build its infrastructure, use its wealth for the people of Somalia. If Turkey is going to do something, if it's really going to offer support, if it's going to help, it's going to have to do it. Dear friends, the Somali thesis of course won't be a solution, it won't be a solution for us, because if international forces pile up all the power of the world there, the Somali people will have their own lands, their own shores, their own resources. This needs to be seen. The continued foreign policy in this direction, the solidarity with the Somali people and other peoples in the region, will be much more beneficial to us. What we have to say about this, of course, will not come to an end, but the color of our vote on this thesis is no. That's how we express our thoughts. We will address our ideas on this issue, especially in this General Assembly, about our views, our criticism, our thoughts, that a foreign policy will not succeed, especially with this militant and military deployment approach. Thank you for listening, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0039par0057	Thank you, Mr. Gür. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Korkurk. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0040par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to extend its mandate in the Gulf of Somalia one more year to support international efforts in the fight against naval elements, piracy, naval bandits and armed robberies. I salute you all. The Republican People's Party has long supported the participation of Turkish Armed Forces in international peacekeeping operations. The Turkish Armed Forces have always served with superior successes in their peacekeeping operations, and that is how Somalia continues its mission, and we consider it appropriate as the Republican People's Party. So we're going to vote positive for this thesis. When it's called Somali, there's been a recent misunderstanding, especially from the Justice and Development Party, that nobody used to look at Somali, that nobody cared, that the Justice and Development Party reached out to Somalia, and pulled Somalia out of the pit. That's not true, guys. In Somalia, when Somalia was a normal member of the United Nations, Aidid and Mehdi began fighting as two groups in Somalia as a result of riots against the Siad Barre government. Somalia was devastated by these conflicts, the state was destroyed, the order was broken, and one of the countries that reached out to Somalia at that time was Turkey, and no one should forget that. In 1992, Turkey sent a battalion to Somalia, yet the United Nations did not send troops at the time, and that battalion sailed on Turkish ships to Somalia. To visit that battalion, while the United Nations was not there, I flew to Somalia with the then Deputy Prime Minister Erdal Inönu, and Minister of National Defence Nevzat Ayaz. Somalia was in ruins, Turkey extended a helping hand to Somalia, not only to help her, but also to help her organize efforts, and they wanted to take us to the Somali Parliament as they took us for a tour of Somalia. There was also an American unit working to establish order like the Turkish Union. The commander-in-chief of the American Union said: "You must wear an armoured vest, you must wear a helmet." I don't even think about wearing an armoured vest, I don't go there in an armoured vest, I go there open. Mr. Innu, Mr. Frost and I went to the House without an armored vest. The Americans next to us came in armored vests, helmets, their own vehicles. The people of Somalia there lifted up Erdal Inönou's car as a show of love and the Americans were amazed. He said: "Ya, how does this happen?" They stone us when we get here. How can you do this, how can it be? We're Turkish, they'll recognize us here. Love for Turkey in Somalia is not the love of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, it is not the love of Ahmet Davutoglu, it is not the love of AKP, it is the love of Turkey. But now we see a decline in this love, my friends. Look, at that time, the people who raised the car in 1992, some of the people who raised the car in the air, are setting off a suicide attack on the hotel, where the pre-committee was headed there before the trip to Somalia, and they're setting off a bomb. There's been a bomb attack on the Turkish Embassy, we've lost security guards there. You have to think about why this is happening. Ten years ago, Turkey was following a very different policy, knowing how to use its own border, its strength, how to use its power, and what was considered, loved, when there was a disagreement, it was a country that was sought, trusted by its word, used in its power, not by threatening it, but using it as a soft force, and because of it, Turkey was respected, a great country, known as a great country. We knew it was a big country, but now it's getting more and more involved in the conflicts there, taking sides in those conflicts, getting defeated where he's taking sides, raising doubts, and we thought it was that big, wasn't it? What a terrible thing this is, my friends. I don't know if you remember, a year ago, when Turkey was looking for energy sources in the Eastern Mediterranean, when Turkey opposed the cooperation of the Greek Cypriots and Israel, the Foreign Minister of the Greek Cypriot administration said: "Leave them, they talk, they talk, they talk, nothing comes out of them. Let's do our job. It's a sad thing to bring Turkey into this situation. Look, for four years the blood has been flowing through Syria, and civil war has broken out in Syria. The civil war in Syria, unfortunately, has led some terrorist organizations to flock to our borders, where terrorist organizations have shown some activities. Now we're dealing with them. While we deal with the stability in the Middle East, we now face a security issue, friends, a serious security issue. For the situation in Syria, how many times have we said as the Republican People's Party, we said: "Search an international meeting." Look, we didn't do this last month, they held this meeting in Moscow last year. This meeting in Moscow gave proper results. We expect that meeting to happen again in a month. The Geneva process came to life. We kept silent in these things, and you remained silent as a government. But if we had held these meetings today, there wouldn't have been a situation in Syria, and there would not have been 2 million Syrian people today who would not have gone through our borders, not to embarrass us and to reduce our economic resources. We couldn't do that. The least we could do is contribute to the Moscow meeting, we could help, we didn't do that, guys. Now, the violence that began in the Middle East continues to envelop Africa. In the meantime, you may wonder if the government wants to start your attitude in Syria as well as in Egypt. Because today, the headline of Hurriyet, one of our great newspapers, was broad news that a number of TV channels connected to Ihvan, who were working against the government in Egypt, were broadcasting from Istanbul. That's how we started in Syria, and in Syria, we wanted to gather Syria's opposition in Turkey and organize it and make it an opposition to Syria. Is that what we're doing to Egypt now? We, Turkey, have suffered a lot from these channels, television broadcasts. When we were in the profession, in that profession, we tried so hard not to make these publications from countries where we are, we brought in the international judiciary, we won a case in the international judiciary, sometimes we stopped them, sometimes we couldn't stop them. Is it us, my friends, that we want to turn Egypt into Syria, too? When we say we're gonna bring this place in, we don't want to get in trouble on our own, do we think about that? We'll tell Aden it's okay. We said it's okay. We call it Aden. We call it an act of peace in Eden, but it happens to Egypt. We can't say it's Syria. We can't say it's Iraq. It's not peace. See, as this violence spreads around, as it spreads across the Middle East, there is a violent movement of migration from the Middle East to Western Europe. This migration movement is a serious problem between Greece and us, and all those interested in foreign policy know it. Bulgaria has drawn a fence to the Turkish border. Now, we're learning from the press that this fence isn't enough to stop this current, they're building high concrete walls like the Berlin Wall. We are the great country, the great state, and everyone listens to us, and we are the quarterbacks. We say this, but do we deserve to be surrounded by walls? We're surrounded by walls so people don't come through us and go that way. So, what happens when people leave? Friends, when people leave, political parties are getting stronger, using foreign hostility in those countries as a political rant. You see, in Western Europe, all anti-Islamic political parties, foreign enemies, political parties, racist, fascist political parties are gaining power. Such a party comes to power in France seems to be a serious possibility for the upcoming elections; Germany, once again, in other countries. Now, those with high-ranking voice in the state administration, the President, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Interior, are saying that Islam does not involve Islam, but Islam does not involve violence. True friends, Islam does not involve violence, Islam doesn't, we know that, but it doesn't help to say it, it just doesn't help to say it. This is not going to stand on the ground in front of our people, who have died in the past terrorist incidents in Turkey. It's like saying, "It's not going to happen." Unfortunately, all of their blood remained on the ground. This is not Islam, Islam is not violence. It is not enough. I thought you were the quarterback. Why don't you set up a game? We're members of the Islamic Co-operation Agency. We're the only member of the Islamic Co-operation Agency with a secular republic, and we're one of the most prominent countries that appears to have some reserves at some point within the Islamic Co-operation Agency. What is the true nature of Islam within the Islamic Co-operation Agency? Is Islam violent or not? Decapitations, suicides, human killings are incompatible with Islamic religion. Why doesn't the government start a study in the form of Islam? That's the job. If you're the quarterback, you'll set up this game in the field. The Islamic Co-operation Agency is a suitable area for this matter. Who do you expect to build this, friends of Saudi Arabia? The other day, one person was sentenced to a thousand lashes for publishing in a blog. In Saudi Arabia, they hit a thousand lashes and installments. Women aren't allowed to drive. They're gonna start this? Is that what you expect? You have to start this. You need to start a study called "What is the true nature of Islam?" This work needs to be spread out by the Islamic Co-operation Agency. Let those who claim to have done so in the name of Islam learn that it has nothing to do with Islam, from the Islamic Co-operation Organization, the top international authority in the matter; all Islamic countries are members of that organization. Five members of the United Nations Security Council are being taunted by a slogan such as "The World is bigger than five." Okay, let's get teased, so we know that, and we want it to be big, but it's not. There's been a study there for 30 years about him. It's in the commissions, how it can be done, and how it can be removed from veto rights for five permanent members, but we're going at it with slogans, where there's serious contribution to that work. Where we're going to go, we're not going to involve an important Islamic organization where we're actually strong, which we've recently demoralized as secretary general. The government must prepare a study in which all Islamic countries will agree that Islam is the true face of Islam within the Islamic Co-operation Organization, that will prove that Islam (Islamics), that Islam (Islamic Monotheism), and killing men with Islam (Islamic Monotheism), that Islam (Islamic Monotheism), are not compatible with the suicide bomb, that they will agree on, that they must spread this work around, that all those who claim to be acting in the name of Islam, and that all those who make Islam (Islamic religion) evil should be able to silence by this form. As for the Gulf of Aden, I'd like to make one more point, my friends. When this mission began in the Gulf of Aden, when the peace mission began, the Turkish Armed Forces were much more energetic than they are today, much more upright, much more enthusiastic than they are today. Over the course of time, some artificial lawsuits have broken the enthusiasm of the Turkish Armed Forces, which your own friends have called "komplo," but the Turkish Armed Forces are still working, trying to serve world peace. The Turkish Armed Forces' efforts are here on this occasion, and I would like to salute them on behalf of the Republican People's Party. I'd like to say again on this occasion that the government should be much more sharer in foreign policy. Foreign policy isn't something you talk about these days, but there's a lot going on around us, guys. Look, we've got a Middle East, Syria, Assad, Eset. We're trying to comfort ourselves with these things, but there are other things happening in the world. There is a Ukrainian problem; Ukraine is also a problem that is very closely addressed to the NATO alliance, which we are members of. We're not sure what we're doing with the Ukrainian problem. In Ukraine, the Crimean Tatars face great difficulties, but when a vote is held on the Council of Europe, you see that the ruling representatives vote is not on the side of the Crimean Tatars. Turkey needs to come to its senses about this foreign policy, leaving the adventure now. The book the Prime Minister has written must be put on the library shelves. The experiences we've seen over the past four years have shown very clearly where Turkey rose from and where it came from. There's no point in insisting on it anymore. Look, almost a hundred years ago, Ataturk said Panislamism was work that didn't have to be followed by Panturasm, and he said: whatever happened to us as Turkey, came from adventures that we came up claiming that we would do, that we could actually do it, but that we were able to do it, that we came up with a bet, that although there is no possibility that Panislamism is going to be fulfilled, others think that there is, because they think that there is, because they think that there is, that they are taking precautions against us, that Turkey is not going to be able to exist. Look, when the Middle East is being resolved today -- when I say the Middle East -- I mean the Arab-Israeli conflict -- there's no Turkish name, that's where Egypt comes in. When the Syrian issue is resolved -- I just told you -- Moscow comes in. When Saudi Arabia and Egypt fall apart, no one can go to Turkey and say, "Make things right between us. " Because we're not very good with either of them. Do we have any friends? I don't know, I mean, maybe there's a country where we're really friends, but I can't be too clear on what the Azerbaijan executives think of us. But Turkey should not be so lonely, so unneeded, such a huge security crisis, and it should be perceived as a country that defends such violence, not an experience that Turkey has ever seen, nor should it ever be. For him, the government has to re-emerge, design, re-explor this foreign policy issue by sharing it with the people, but above all, by sharing it with the House. I've said it more than this stand, and I'll say it again on this occasion. I wish the Turkish Navy elements, the crew of ships, the heroic officer, the petty officer, the private, and the civilian staff the success, your bow, your neta, and your wind. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0041par0083	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0042par0086	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Prime Minister's thesis, which envisions the extension of the Turkish Armed Forces, which operates off the Gulf of Aden and Somalia, for another year. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs have been supported by the Nationalist Movement Party every time the Supreme Assembly comes to its agenda, which envisions the extension of the Turkish Armed Forces, which operates off the Gulf of Aden and Somalia, for another year. At this point, the Turkish Armed Forces will serve and perform in the most risky areas in the world. In international waters, this service to wave the Turkish flag and honor our state and nation would be a useful service to our nation, even if it is risky. Although there has been a significant decline in sea bandits and armed robberies, it is also in our national interest to extend this mission for another year. Our distinguished troops are thousands of miles away from their country, both providing security for Turkish Flags and commercial-related ships with Turkey, as well as to contribute to the safe continuation of general trade traffic in international waters. In international waters, the function and experience of our Armed Forces in a mission that concerns the security of the entire world is crucial in this context. So far, nothing serious has happened in terms of our Armed Forces off the coast of the Gulf of Aden and Somalia. However, if anything should happen to our soldiers in the event of an unresolved or unexpected attack, I would like to stress in particular that it is actually relevant to the foreign policy of this criminal government and the AKP. Now, I would like to present the general perspective that the Justice and Development Party has actually established in front of you and our great nation, that the elements of the Armed Forces have been sent to this entire Gulf of Aden, and that it has been expressed in terms of its foreign policy, to observe and reflect, if that's what it says. Strategic blindness is essential in AKP's foreign policy. Turkey faces a power that starts by saying zero problems with neighbours and makes the whole neighborhood a problem. As a result of these policies, Turkey has no diplomatic relationship with Syria, Israel and Egypt today. Davutoglu's foreign policy of the Middle East is in and out of the deserts of the Middle East. This policy has brought Turkey to the point of putting Syria in a state of war with Syria from the meeting of the Joint Council of Ministers with Syria. This is a policy that first received the Human Rights Prize from Libyan leader Gaddafi, and then contributed to the removal of Gaddafi's head. A country with strategic land can't have the luxury of dealing with ideal-politics or dream-politics. There's no future for any policy that doesn't fit into the reality of history and geography. Geopolitics enforces real politics. Being one step ahead of Cyprus, lifting borders with Syria, zero problems with the neighbours, opening doors with Armenia, and even further, following the agreements with Armenia, Turkey's 100-year historical problem with Armenia has become history. A policy, such as this, is no longer a policy based on reality. Zero-problem policy with neighbors has evolved to zero-resolved foreign policy with neighbors. The protocols signed with Armenia resulted in frustration. Despite the doors, concessions, talks launched in Cyprus, there has been no length of barley. Erdoğan speaking, Davutoglu applauds; Davutoglu speaks, fanatics applaud, and it is wise for the great nation of Turkey to rethink, again, what it brings us, what it brings to the conclusion, what it brings to the highest level of external interest of Turkey. My traditional Padişah, long live! The temples have actually shut down Davutoglu's vision, which is already limited. Excessive exuberance, applause, and praise as it is with all human beings, is sadly surprising to those in authority. From applause to thought, from emotion to mind, who should have come to see where Davutoglu's policy brought Turkey. Today, Turkey has no diplomatic relations with Syria, Egypt, Israel, or even Saudi Arabia. Some of the concepts that Davutoglu gave to Turkey's diplomacy, each showing another disaster and Vahame, are: "valued loneliness," "win-win-win," "no problem with neighbours," "corruption is not the solution," "to be one step ahead of Cyprus," "proactive foreign policy." Turkey's diplomacy, under Davutoglu's rule, is not going to end by counting failures stemming from ideological stance and evaluation errors. In particular, Turkey's neighbouring countries sided with their own conflicts, and even the fact that they were actually involved in them was a disaster. Davutoglu diplomacy has not solved problems in Syria, Iraq and Egypt, but has become part of problems. Speaking of proactive policy, Davutoglu did not even foresee the risk of ISIS heading for the Musul consulate and could not ensure that the consulate was evacuated in time. He was unable to read Assad's position and status in Syria. In relations with Armenia and Cyprus, Davutoglu showed the same shortsightedness. This is the truth, and the effect of this continues to disturb Turkey. Turkey imports problems from all its neighbours, as it is, from all neighbouring countries, and even imports trouble. Here, however, it is also useful to seriously examine a number of baity concepts that AKP has created to save its mental depression and the deadlock that AKP has fallen into. One of these concepts is the concept of New Turkey. The AKP, which has been alone for 12 years, announced that it has been transferred to New Turkey at the end of 12 years. They also put us in front of the past, declaring that events such as bureaucratic custody, coupist tradition and bad politics belong to "old Turkey." The disconnect between the people and the president in New Turkey has been especially stressed. With such viewpoints, positive or negative adjectives can be uploaded to the past -- as did the AKP's power elites. However, considering the past in the circumstances of the day, it is wise to declare a scapegoat, as a source of all progress and kindness, and how accurate it is to consider it. We want to focus on understanding that separates Turkey as old and new. The concepts of ancient and new Turkey are, in fact, the source of very radical debates. We'd like to draw attention to the facts of the phenomenon before he gets into the debate. Forget the old one, take a new path. The expression means challenging continuity. It's the least divisive of societies to put new qualities into their pasts, to see or to see as the opposite or alternative to each other. The nations are whole with their past, their state, and their future. It shouldn't be kept out of sight that if what happened in the past had been in the past, no one would be able to talk about tradition, customs, customs, and customs today. If what happened in the past had not continued to be added to each other in the context of individual-society-burocracy, there would not have been a source of many problems or solutions today. The truth is that the past follows the future like a shadow. Every organization and society is more or less a continuation of their past. It should never be taken out of mind that the historical facts that have been completed and passed over to the memory of society are beyond the time that they are in control of today's social consciousness. The direction to lay the foundation of the future lies in the memory of the past, a little bit of it. To do that, you need to understand the profound consciousness of history. History is the compass of healthy consciousness and healthy society. People who don't keep their memories alive always have trouble with direction. Throughout history, societies have been defeated by time and then by their enemies. In time, no organization has ever failed its opponents, and it will not be seen. Political authorities may want to start everything with themselves. Napoleon once said, "Courage begins with me." he said. However, history flows in its own way, not according to the desires of political actors. Thus, John Kemal uses the concept of "the horse whose root is in the past" to emphasize the continuity of history. It is inadvertent to declare it the source of all negatives by putting an "old" into the concept of Turkey. Putting all negative adjectives into the concept of "old Turkey" and declaring that they are in the past is also the closest sign of lack of historical consciousness. The past is not denial, it's a cognitive problem. Starting from scratch is an invitation to ignorance and primitiveity. Societys whose past has been erased are deprived of the ability to build the future and its savings. It's obvious you can't leave everything from the old one in the shop. It's old, shadowy, following what we've just said. Destroying shrines, historical monuments, mosques, and memories, or ignoring them, as an example, is political service to ISIS ideology. The consequences of lack of memory are worse than being deprived of the country. History doesn't work with the authorities. An understanding that ignores itself with the slogan "New Turkey" is, above all, a denial of history and social continuity. With me, the new Turkey begins. Its attitude also means making itself a nation. It's kind of a past erasing. As the past eraser, Mao is at the beginning of history. Mao once said, "The best poems are written on the white page." It's a well-known word for it. Now, I would like to briefly address the problems that this policy has produced in Turkey and Turkey's inner landscape: the AKP government is a government that considers its political future rather than Turkey's honor and prestige, rather than its own, rather than the fight against terrorists, and we are concerned about that. On the other hand, Turkish Armed Forces contributing to international efforts thousands of miles from Turkey are tied up in Turkey. He is imprisoned in the Turkish military barracks, the guardian of both the republic and our unity. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has decided to turn the Republic into the regime of the patriarchate and build a federative structure on our land, is the biggest obstacle to the functioning of the Turkish army. The AKP staff under Erdogan deliberately withdrew our troops from cities in the southeast. In the region, power allows the separatist terrorist organisation to freely prepare the infrastructure to form its own state. Today, people who are not from the region are not allowed to roam freely. The militants of the separatist organization provide security. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu also comes out and tells us that no one can teach us a lesson in the Republic, and no one can divide the country with us. He comforts himself and the nation. However, in their own approach, the public does not know that some lawmakers have described the republic as an adjective. Well, then, if the republic is between advertising, then you really need to take a republican class. Son of Davutoglu, you're sitting in that chair for nothing. While you're playing prime minister, the prime minister is being served by President Tayip Erdogan, and the AKP's president is being served by President Tabip Erdogan, and you're just pretending to be Prime Minister. Ahmet Davutoglu can't tell the truth, but let's say on his behalf that Turkey is now divided, Turkey is now in a state crisis. I'd like to underline that in particular. The official division is expected after the 2015 general elections. The aim of the AKP's government is to change the Constitution and make it official by gaining sufficient majority in the June elections. Our nation is deceived, our nation is deceived. All AKP MPs know the truth and even whisper to each other that some of them have a conscience. But because of Erdogan's dictatorial leadership understanding, no member of the ruling party has a loud voice, but during secret voting, these MPs have the opportunity to express their true opinion. Recep Erdogan built an empire of fear within the party. Obeying Erdogan's laws is absolute, and those who do not submit to him are immediately accounted for. It would also be unfair to expect the MPs to step out and speak the truth in public as the elections approach. Dear MPs, Turkey has much more important issues on its agenda than this thesis. He is currently sitting in the presidential office, where he still considers himself the leader of the AKP. Like the leader of this party, he goes on national tours and organises rallies and asks the citizen to vote for the AKP. I ask you, where in the world is there such a president and president? What in the world is such a presidential system? Recep Tayyip Erdogan has invented a unique form of governance and is doing it as he pleases. The parliamentary democratic system, no presidential system in the world is to replace a certain percentage of the people. In America, the president is the president of the Republicans and the Democrats, where there is a system that works smoothly. In our case, a functioning system has been tampered with by the President himself. According to the semi-presidential system in France, the president is a party figure, representing all French people. In Russia, Putin is the leader of all the Russian people. In Turkey, Erdogan represents only the AKP people, stating that he is only the head of the AKP (AKP) people, through his conduct and expression. President Erdoğan has been sworn in before the MPs of the nation in parliament, he must remain neutral according to his oath, and the whole nation must defend the right and the law. No authority gives anyone the right to eliminate the norms of the state of law, the rule of law. No election success and national will support can justify or justify leaving law aside and taking pleasure in it. It is the presidency that must uphold the law the most. Recep Erdogan doesn't respect his oath in front of you and the nation. A vow is honor and honor. The president represents the entire community, the people. Erdogan, on the other hand, ignores half the people. Erdogan acts only as a representative of the AKP, and he does so on purpose. He is discriminated against by insisting and deliberately representing those in favor of his party. He makes others who don't support his party. The public is divided by the President himself in the form of those who are not from the AKP. Erdogan thus not only exceeds his presidential powers, but also abuses his position. 1) The neutral president is biased. 2) He has taken an oath, and he has broken it. 3) It violates the Constitution. A president who violates the Constitution loses his qualifications and adjectives, at least makes it controversial. Degrees from law school are not granted in order to be granted power or to be judged according to its power, it is necessary to give those diplomas the rights. I'd like to ask you how some members of the judiciary remain silent while Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the killer of the law, breaks the Constitution and the law, and acts recklessly in the name of the president. Let me ask you something else. In the event that the President of the High Election Board is doing politics, which painting will be revealed... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and a painting of the country and which regime, he has to explain aloud and in his position, saying that he wishes success to the Turkish Armed Forces, who will serve in the Gulf of Aden, Soma and offshore. May Allah be their Lord and helpers, so that they may return [to the right path]. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0043par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar... Here you go, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0044par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the Turkish Armed Forces' advocacy to extend its support for international efforts to combat naval bandits and armed robberies in the Aden Bay, Somali territorial waters and open areas of the Turkish Armed Forces. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the phenomenon of bilateral dependency in the globalized world, security strategies, and the phenomenon of interdependence in the globalized world, requires that all areas of open use of the nations be kept under acceptable control, particularly the sea areas covering about three-quarters of our globe. In this context, the importance of the seas today, the security and economic development of countries, with about 90 per cent of the world's trade being carried by the sea. The fact that shipping was much cheaper and more economic than the railroad, airway and road transport, has allowed sea transport to have an important share in the world's trade and has made shipping to be one of the most important elements of the growing trade volume of the globalized world. However, the increasing volume of trade in shipping brought with it risks and threats in unstable areas, especially in the Aden Bay, Somali waters, which are the topic of today's debate, has become a threat to the international trade and global security, as well as to sea bandits and armed robberies that have taken place in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. Marine bandits and armed robberies have been around since the sea started being used by people for business and transportation. However, billions of dollars of economic damage per year have been caused by increasing its violence today, making it a major threat to international sea trade and sea trade. In addition, the issue has become a global security issue, as humanitarian aid to Somalia and other countries in the region also complicates shipping by sea. The main reason for this concentration and increase in the areas of the Gulf of Aden and Somalia of armed robberies is that the government and authority gap, which result from political instability, can be listed as problems in the area of the sea, where sea bandits and those who carry out modern, technological opportunities and those who commit armed robberies and are being arrested and tried. Valuable lawmakers, the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, and the Gulf of Aden are passing around 22,000 commercial ships annually, equivalent to about 14 per cent of the world's trade at $1.8 trillion, and about 26 per cent of the world's oil exports at $315 billion. We can say that 30 per cent of the oil that comes to Europe and the total oil and oil products that come to the United States and Europe pass through this region. The region also has vital importance in terms of Turkish foreign trade. Trade ships that pass through this region make up 20 per cent of Turkish foreign trade volume with 78 billion dollars. The number of commercial ships connected to Turkish Flaglı and Turkey crossing the region has increased in sari for years. In 2010, the number of ships crossing was 280, and last year the number was 952. As it turns out, the sea areas where these actions took place are one of the main routes of international sea trade, and are heavily used by Turkish merchant ships and Turkish-based foreign flagships. Precious lawmakers remain on the agenda as a matter of international security, even though the number of cases of sea bandits and armed robberies against commercial ships in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia, and offshore waters and offshore in the Indian Ocean have been reduced in proportion to previous years. The region currently has four separate frameworks, including combating naval bandits, the Operation Ocean Shield of NATO, Operation Atalanta of the European Union, the United States-led United Navy and military-controlled ships. It is run in four separate frames. Our country supports the international community's anti-seadom activities with the Supreme Assembly's Decision No. 10 February 2009, and the United Navy's Joint Task Force 151, which has been formed as part of the United Navy since 17 February 2009, and a frigate task force commissioned by NATO to transform under Operation Ocean Shield. In this framework, our country served as Commander of the United Task Force 151 between 5 May-13 August 2009, 1 September-29 November 2010 and 1 September-11 December 2012, and Ocean Shield Command between 7 December 2011 and 7 June 2012. The command of the United Task Force 151 is planned to be assumed by our country in August-December 2015. With the command of the United Task Force 151, for the first time outside NATO, the command of a multinational coalition force was carried out by our country. Our country has so far supported the United Task Force with 21 frigates under the permission of the Ocean Shield Operation and our Parliament to rule. Currently, the second ship, which was made entirely by Turkish engineers and workers as part of the National Ship Project (MILGEM), is scheduled to be in Djibouti Port on Thursday (February 5th). In addition to the frigates, the activities of Turkish merchant ships that are crossing the region by our Naval Command are being closely monitored, the transit ships are being aware of their safe course by implementing protective measures in effect, and we have to inform and inform our naval sectors and our naval sectors in close co-operation with foreign warships operating in the region, as well as military activities in the region, the threat of naval banditry, the current developments that need to be taken, through our ministry of navigation and communications. Dear lawmakers, by our naval forces elements in the region, a total of 179 marine bandits have been neutralized in 26 operations against naval bandits from July 2009 to today, providing protection and escort to various countries' ships and preventing attempts to attack them. Our frigates operating in the region are taking every precaution and co-ordinating necessary to ensure safe passage of ships carrying humanitarian aid on behalf of Turkish Bayrakli and Turkey. In this framework, they were accompanied by our frigate, which was assigned to five commercial ships that carried humanitarian aid to Mogadishu Somalia in the name of the Turkish Red Cross in 2013, in response to the drought in Somalia. There have been attacks on 17 Turkish Flags and Turkish-connected ships in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia, offshore waters, and in the Indian Ocean, and so far by sea bandits and pirates, five of which have resulted in kidnapping, which has been released. Due to military operations and protective measures taken by merchant ships in the region, no commercial ships connected to the Turkish Flag or Turkey have been hijacked since March 2010, and no commercial ships have been attacked in the area where Turkish naval power has served in the past year. Again, last year, on 5 November 2014, in the Gulf of Guinea of Nigeria, west of Africa, a Turkish-owned ship named Malta, was taken hostage by naval bandits in an area that was not under attack and two personnel were taken hostage. These two personnel were released on 14 November 2014 as a result of their attempts. As a result of security measures taken off the coast of the Gulf of Aden and Somalia, the attack has been judged as a result of the recent trend of sea bandit activity to the west of Africa, especially to the Gulf of Guinea. I would also like to point out that the naval elements assigned to the region were not assigned to any ground operations on Somali soil for those who committed naval bandits and armed robberies. Dear lawmakers, the key to the threat of sea bandits is on land. The solution will be possible with the establishment of Somalia's inner order, prosperity, and peace of mind. In this minival, it is important that the international community act jointly with an inclusive approach, take effective measures and implement them. In this framework, our country maintains a Somali policy based on comprehensive strategy to continue its assistance to Somalia, in line with efforts to combat sea banditry. Making Somalia part of the international agenda, humanitarian aid, development and infrastructure projects, political reconciliation, security and support in military areas are elements of the strategy. In addition, our country has helped Somalia with nearly $400m in humanitarian aid and development. In co-operation with the international community, Turkey is determined to continue its multidimensional activities in Somalia. In this framework, Mr. President's visit as Prime Minister to Somalia in August 2011 was a turning point in our relations with Somalia and the relocation of Somalia to the international agenda. After three and a half years, his visit to Somalia on 25 January 2015 revealed the continuity of our commitment to Somalia and our policy, and that our cooperation would continue with concrete projects. The re-opening of our Mogadishu Embassy in November 2011 and the beginning of Turkish Airlines' Mogadishu campaigns in March 2012 were steps that served to break Somalia's loneliness and unite with the international community. The only international airline flying to Somalia was built by our air transport infrastructure-related institutions so that Turkish Airlines can fly. Dear lawmakers have made significant progress in many areas in Somalia since August 2012. The figure of the Somali Parliament, the election of the President, the appointment of the Prime Minister and the establishment of the government, has been a major step in Somalia's political and democratic history. A new era began in Somalia. We see the priorities of the new era in Somalia as building state institutions, providing basic public services, restructuring of development, development, security institutions, establishing national reconciliation, returning refugees to their homes and strengthening local governments. As Turkey, in this period when Somalia's future is being shaped, we will continue our efforts to join our Somali brothers, support them, and raise them to their feet. We believe that restructuring security forces in Somalia is the top priority. In Somalia's development, our country demonstrates a leading co-operation and our cooperation continues with joint investments. As it turns out, we follow a comprehensive strategy for Somalia, which contributes to the fight against piracy, while at the same time eliminates the negatives that lead to piracy. The African Horn, including Eritrea, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya and Somalia, is an international geography that has been missing peace and stability for many years, staged interstate and tribal conflicts, and has been on the agenda of the international community due to these developments. This geography has been the focus of the world's powerful countries in history and today. The border of countries in the Horn of Africa, drawn by colonial countries, is also the basis for problems today. Since the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire has fought as a force against the new European colonialism in the region, providing financial and spiritual support to local peoples. Our ancestors and we today have never embraced the colonial understanding of the West, and we have always stood against it. We always took care to establish common interests in our bilateral and multilateral relations with Africa and to strengthen the bond of partnership. Rather than creating permanent solutions to the fundamental problems of Africa, most of the countries who are interested in Africa today are seeking a share of the wealth of these countries, Turkey makes our country different from those countries. Valuable lawmakers take their place on the world stage as a continent with 54 countries and more than 1 billion people living in Africa, with rapid economic growth recorded in many countries, momentum in transition to democracy, a potential for natural and humanitarian resources. In recent years, some of the world's fastest growing economies have been in Africa. With only three countries on the continent in 1989, this number exceeds one third of the continents today. The second half of the 21st century is viewed as an African century, and Africa is important to all world states as a new actor on the global stage. Today, powerful countries of the world are competing for the resources of Africa. In particular, it is absolute that the interest in Africa, in the southern part of the Sahara, in its short name, the SAGA, will become even more intense in the coming years, and the competition will increase in this region. In this framework, sub-Saharan Africa and usually the African continent are among the foreign policy priorities of our country. Dear lawmakers are seen by our country, the continent countries, as a model country and trusted partner in the process of opening to Africa, where we have begun to build a network of economic, political and cultural relations with the SAGA countries. Our historical history with the continent is very important at this point. As the latest link to the work conducted effectively since 2005, the state visits of our President to Ethiopia, Djibouti and Somalia on January 21st and 24th are important for strengthening the solid ground of Turkey-Africa partnership and maintaining it in a stable manner. Turkey's African expansion will continue with a human core and increasing acceleration, regardless of threats from those who are disturbed by the process. I give thanks to Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President and Prime Minister Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, our Foreign Minister Mr Mevlüt Cavoglu, our Foreign Ministry and TİKA employees, for all our concerned public and civil society organizations and for their contributions and support. Mr. President, in accordance with the 92nd Article of the Constitution, under which the Turkish Armed Forces have been issued on February 10, 2009, in accordance with the principles and principles established by the Grand National Assembly Decision 934, and at the end of January 16, 2014, the Grand National Assembly Decision 1054, which was extended on February 10, 2014, I saluted all of you that we would be able to extend once more than one year in the Gulf of Eden, Somali waters and deficits, in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions from February 10, 2015.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0045par0159	Thank you, Mr. Konkar. On behalf of him, Adana MP Osman Faruk Logogoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0046par0163	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, I give you my regards. The favourable approach of the Republican People's Party on the subject of countermeasure has just been announced by Mr. Osman Kuruturk speaking on behalf of our group. I won't go into that again in detail, but I'd like to say that we have no objection to Turkey's struggle with piracy and sea bandits in the Gulf of Aden and mujavir. Joining this force under UN Security Council decisions is appropriate under Turkey's traditional foreign policy. However, I'd like to remind you, of course, that there is a fight against bandits, piracy, but I think it's right that the Somali people, Somali sailors, Somali fishermen, and Turkey must attempt to protect their rights on another front, and I think it's right to do so. We, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of fighting piracy, outlawy and illegality everywhere. However, we strongly object if Turkey's ruling government, fighting piracy far away, is following policies that remind its neighbours and friends of piracy in closer areas. Because, unfortunately, Turkey's policies in its region today are incompatible with responsibility, incompatible with international law, incompatible with good neighbourly relations. I'd like to mention a few examples of these, briefly, during the time assigned to me. A group of spokeswoman, in fact, pointed out a couple of statements on the grounds of the thesis, and I'd like to mention that in a few words. This authority is required to consolidate our role and image on the regional scale. We also see from these statements that since then, the trip to this fantasy world by Foreign Minister Davutoglu, whom we have given five questions about him, unfortunately, has not ended. These unrealistic, fictional assessments don't suit people, brains, minds who run the foreign policy of an important power, such as the Republic of Turkey, and I'd like to give you a warning about that. There are two things I'd like to talk to you about. The first one is related to Egypt. We've had some friends who've been talking about this in part in the talks before me. But I've given the Prime Minister a motion to ask him a question. In Istanbul, the broadcasts are being made on the television channels of the Muslim brothers, Egypt al-Aan, and El Shark, and the television channels of the city, which aim to violence the people of Egypt and threaten the foreigners in the country. Turkey's hosting media outlets for these publications has already drawn a heavy reaction from the Egyptian administration and has created a new perception in the Western media that Turkey supports violence and further reinforces perception that it supports terrorist organisations. We fought over Rog TV for many years -- Mr. Ranger has stated -- for many years. I was part of the struggle when I was Ambassador in Denmark, when I was Ambassador in Copenhagen. Our argument is... you can't allow a broadcaster who's been propaganda a terrorist organization, which needs to be revoked. We've fought for so many years that Danes or other European countries -- because Rog TV was constantly moving -- they've always been the target of our accusations, which attract our anger because they didn't do it. Now we do the same work from Istanbul to Egypt. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it in accordance with our Constitution, is it in accordance with our laws that the publications that provoke the people of Egypt to violence and threaten foreigners in the country be made from Turkey? What is the infrastructure of this? We need to know that. I mean, do we have the right, or do we have the right to have the freedom to go out to any country in Turkey to do it with the content that he wants, or do we have the legislation that regulates these things, if we have it, are these publications in accordance with these laws? Second: Has the AKP's government made an attempt on the organizations that make these publications? Is there a resemblance to the developments in the context of Roj TV between Turkey and Denmark that are taking place in the Egyptian illustration today? We'd like to know that, too. Turkey is accused of supporting terrorism for hosting the issue. And how does the government feel about that? That's what we want to know. This, of course, is a review of the AKP's policies towards neighbouring countries. This policy is essentially a continuation of policies that express the need to intervene in the internal affairs of these countries, to side with one side of the conflicts within these countries, to oppose the other. I have a concern as if we are about to repeat what we did in Syria. Second and final location is the Syrian issue. Whatever wisdom was dropped from the agenda, however, an important meeting was held in Moscow on January 26th and 29th. This was a meeting supported by the United Nations, the United States, and Western countries, and even the Syrian Special Representative of the United Nations was present at this meeting. It is also a significant part of the Syrian opposition, and the PYD was present at this meeting. The existence of the PYD was an important participation in Syria's territorial integrity and national unity. The meeting also reached an agreement on some issues. These are calls to the international community to speed up the transfer of humanitarian aid to all regions of Syria, to mitigate and abolish economic sanctions against the Syrian people, to condemn Israel's aggressive attitude towards Syria and Lebanon, to pressure Israel to comply with the UN requirements and relevant international decisions. These were good, humble results, a beginning. And the NGO in Russia -- and it wasn't the government -- held this meeting -- put the Moscow Conference on the more general UN framework, where the Moscow Process was a continuation of the Geneva Process, and that was the right move. But what's interesting here is the position of the AKP government, the government. The AKP government has done everything it can to undermine the Moscow Conference. Of course, it's not in the media, but what did he do? They stopped the main elements of the Syrian opposition, the Islamic Brothers, from attending this conference, and they didn't want them to go, and they did. At one point, the Syrian opposition against the Syrian regime went to the Moscow Conference with a missing staff. Therefore, we say once again that the AKP's obsession with Assad continues, and the sufferings of the Syrian people continue, the bloodshed continues, and that the Justice and Development Party is primarily responsible for all of this. We say, "Come to your senses," we say, "keep your wits about you," and we say, "Be straight and take proper steps to ease the suffering of the Syrian people." We owe it to the people next door as a neighboring country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0047par0178	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. In the name of the person, Cırıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0048par0182	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Gulf of Aden, Somalia, and the Arab Sea have threatened sea trade and security on the rise of piracy, sea bandits and armed robberies. Therefore, the United Nations Security Council has made a decision. In view of this decision, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has decided to extend the length one year from 2009 to deploy the elements of the armed forces in the area. Time's almost up again. As of February 10th, the mandate of the Turkish Grand National Assembly General Assembly is envisioned to extend by one more year. All political parties in Turkey's Grand National Assembly support this thesis because it is needed to ensure the safety of Turkish shipping vessels in that region. I hope the General Assembly supports the thesis, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0049par0187	Thank you, Mr. Can. Mr. Tanal, you're in the system, what is it?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0050par0189	I had a question, Mr. Secretary, but Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0049par0190	You know, it's not a rhetorical method, we're seeing each other, so...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0050par0191	Since we found our Minister of Energy so late...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0049par0192	We don't have that kind of procedure. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0050par0193	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0049par0194	Now, the negotiations on the presidential thesis are complete. Now I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council resolutions adopted since 2008 on piracy/sea banditry and armed robberies in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, the Gulf of Aden, Somalia and the coasts and coasts, and the United Nations Security Council resolutions adopted by the Turkish Parliament for 10/2/2009 and the decision issued by the Grand National Assembly on 934 for a year, which has been extended by 10/2/2010 and has been held in accordance with the Turkish armed forces in the region and has been active in the area of Turkey and has been linked with the Turkish armed forces, and has been seen in the area and has been linked with the international security of the United Nations. The UN Security Council's decisions, which continue to take place in the designated areas of piracy/sea banditry and armed robbery, have been extended one more year with the resolution dated 12/11/2014, which has led to the international community's fight. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces are assigned to the government for the deployment of naval elements in the Gulf of Aden, Somali territorial waters and deficits, the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, and the final extension, dated 16/1/2014, under Article 92/2014, under the principle established in Decision 10/2/2009 and on the basis of Article 934 and on the basis of Article 10/2/2015 of the Constitution. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/02/2015 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The General Assembly was advised to continue its work until the completion of its talks on Tuesday (February 03, 2015) in the merger of Law Bill 683. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and then I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/4/1961 dated 298 (2/1668) Since our proposal for amendments to the Law on Elections and Voter Logs is not discussed within 45 days, the Civil Charter is 37. In accordance with the matter of the law, I demand word to bring our proposal directly to the General Assembly. Yours truly. As the bidder, Alderman Lütfü Türkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0051par0228	Mr. President, I have made a direct commitment to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly to make a change in Article 93 of the Law on the Basic Decisions of Elections and Voters of 298. I salute you all. Our proposal for this law states that when the president gives the voter's identity card to the voter who uses the voter's voter card, after signing his name on the voter list, he also prints it with special paint that doesn't come out of his left hand's index finger. Those who can't sign get fingerprinted. He also writes down which finger of the non-fingered voter has stepped on it. • I mean, he envisions the return of the election paint that had been put on the fingers before, but was then removed, dear friends. Don't get excited! According to the fact that the Address Recording System had been implemented and that each voter was given the identity number of the Republic of Turkey in July 22, 2007, as part of the Computer Supported Centre Voter Log System, and the general election of the MP held in July 22, 2007, and the public opinion on 21 October 2007 had not met with the common vote. The reason was noted that special paint was no longer needed. The item had been changed by removing the non-existent special dye from the joke and was removed from marking the voter's finger, which voted with special paint. When you look at the date of this proposal, you will see the date of June 24, 2013, before the local administration elections on March 30, 2014. But then, unfortunately, it didn't come to the General Assembly's agenda. After the March 30th elections, debates over election results have not stopped in many places. Now, we've made a humble suggestion not to have these discussions, but unfortunately, we haven't been able to get them to listen. The nearest example of this is the Ankara elections, and the nearest example is the Yalova elections. How many times did the elections go, come, a lot of multiple votes have been found? Now, we have parliamentary general elections ahead of us. We have four months, and this bill may be an opportunity in front of us. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have raised doubts that voters' lists based on the address will always be controversial and that the writing work of those listed on the voter list will be carried out by officials under the government's command. There have been many discussions about the census and election results of the polls. Thus, the country's will was not fully reflected. The ballots were collected from the garbage. Even though he had the right to vote once, allegations that one person had multiple votes and doubts about them remain unresolved. About 117 thousand people have 1,177,000 voters, including my district of Kobeeli, who have no municipality of residence but who have voted. Due to this irregular procedure, the elections made in the Big One must be cancelled. We have not been heard. Mr. President, the most important thing here is the issue of multiple votes. In previous elections, this has been avoided by finger-painting. However, given the country's atmosphere and the current parliamentary general elections, it is seen as an urgent need to re-live it. Are you also going to allow vote theft in an environment where certain corruptions have been seen as normal through the ministers, with the ruling party's votes in the Supreme Court and the Assembly General Assembly, covered by thefts, corruption? That's what I want to ask you. At the coming point, in order for a healthy outcome of the upcoming election, I'd like to say that in order to remove the suspicions that there may be multiple votes, it must be returned to finger painting and that such a one-point law should be put on the agenda of the House as soon as possible. I'd like your support on the agenda of the House, and I'd like to extend my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0052par0236	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0053par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I salute you all. In the 67th article of our Constitution, it is said that the laws of choice are held in line with the principles of justice and stability in representation. Dear friends, when we look at the election system in Turkey, there are very serious injustices in the parliamentary distribution. In fact, the system is this: within 550 MPs, the number of MPs in each province is specified within the number divided into the population of the provinces after the number of MPs has been distributed. Thus, such a system does not bring justice because there are huge differences between the number of voters and the population. I want to make these differences clear to you. You'll all understand from here. For example, Adıyaman, who has 375,413 voters, has released 5 MPs, while Çorum, 387,560 voters, produces 4 MPs. At the same time, when Diyarbakır has 11 MPs with 923,544 voters -- I say 923, see -- Manisa, 995,000 voters, has nine MPs, and even though there are more voters, two more MPs are less. In addition, Samsun has released 9 MPs with 906,000 voters. Şanlıurfa, with 934,000 voters, has released 12 MPs. In addition, Hakkari has 148 thousand voters, but Kırşehir, although 158,000 voters have reached the vote, produces 2 MPs, even though there are 10,000 more voters. In addition, Niğde has 226000 voters and has 3 MPs. One's 128, one's 226,000. With 164,000 voters, the Siirt has three MPs. The servant has appointed 3 MPs for 253,000 voters, while Şırnak has appointed 4 MPs for 232,000 voters. Aksaray appoints 3 MPs in exchange for 251,000 voters. Yozgat has 307,000 voters, and he has four MPs, and he has 419,000 voters in return. So, in fact, as you can see here in many of our provinces, it is possible to increase examples of this. Although he has more than 100,000 voters in between, he has fewer MPs than any other province. Now, if we take these in a more general sense, we're going to get a different result. So the provinces, which have twice as many voters, have fewer MPs than those who have a much less voter, and thus, a violation of the 67th Article of the Constitution. What did he say? The election laws required justice in representation. So, how are you going to get justice in the representation? So you're taking out the same MP as the 3 voters in one place and the 1 in the other. Thus, this brings about a great injustice. So, Mr. Congressman Lütfü says that under the law offered by Turkkan, we must reunite the electoral law and rethink the matter of representation, all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0054par0251	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the fourth place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of Kars MP İstiye İstane; Ankara MP Emine Güçer Tarhan; Samuel MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposals and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, Article 11 was considered in the 49th Union of 29/1/2015. We will now discuss the interim Article 21 of the 24th Article. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the 683 Section 3213 Mining Law under Section 24 under Article 21 of the Interim Article 21 to be replaced as "the cost of the right base of security." Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Sequential "Medane Law and the 24th Amendment to some Laws. Temporarily 21 of the Article. We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. "The obligation of the current licenses to deposit the fee begins on 01/06/2016. Article 13 shall be carried out if the registration is not submitted during the duration of the fee. License fees are returned to licenses, registration guarantees. " Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Şandir Faruk Bal Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0055par0295	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0054par0296	Mr. Honey, here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0056par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Movement Party considers the mining sector a strategic sector, so it is sensitive to increasing efficiency and production in the mining sector and providing job security. As a result of this sensitivity, I have received a pledge from one of the healing proposals we've discussed in the law. I salute the grand jury. In accordance with this clause, all sectors have been affected as well as the mining sector, as has been the result of the twisted economic policies carried out by the Justice and Development Party. A significant number of businessmen who have invested in the affected mining sector have failed to pay their license fees. With this motion, we propose that license fees be extended for another six months according to the bill and paid by 1/6/2016. We hope that the majority of the Justice and Development Party will respond well to our proposal. In this framework, I'd like to share with you my thoughts on the mining industry and on the overall economic situation. The Justice and Development Party has created a great build-up of power in the process of ruling for more than 12 years. This power is reflected in the implementation of the accumulation without law and the co-operation of the AKP wing of legislation and governance. Dear lawmakers, if the power buildup is unsupervised and unstable, there are two outcomes: the political outcome is dictatorship, and the economic outcome is corruption. Because those who hold power think that in an unmanageable and unstable environment that power brings joy to their own people, the result of their personal ambitions, personal grudges, and arbitrary practices will become dictatorships. But the second issue I'd like to mention is the corruption of this unstable and unsupervised overpowering buildup of the ruling party. Giving mining licenses is the most concrete and clear example. Mining licenses are by law, by law, under the authority of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. However, under the influence of that power build-up, the Prime Minister's office, in 2012, tied him to the Prime Minister with the legal authority of the 15th General Assembly and the Minister. In parallel with this summary of mining licenses linked to the prime minister's office, it is also the prime minister's responsibility to sell, rent public real estate or to be offered to the business with the do-and-work model. The department, which is formed within the prime minister's framework, considers them negatively, with its mildest terms, political preferences, demands that do not comply with rights, justice, and justice. Law and immoral demands, such as bribery, coercion of donations and commissions, have, as a result, been issued in all sectors -- licensed, licensed by the Prime Minister's office -- have driven the miners out of their lives in accordance with this sentence. At the moment, 1,224 miners are still waiting for the license to run. So the drum is on the Minister's back, but the hammer is in the hands of the man. Now, the result of this accumulation of power was that the people who invested in mining in the mining sector were miserable, and the people who worked as miners in the mining industry, the loss of 301 (301) of their lives, as in Ermenek, the loss of 18 (18) of their lives in Elbistan, Zonguldak, Balıkesir, and Konya (Konya) had business accidents like this. Save-the-day politics is not the answer. With the day-saving policies, it's impossible to overcome this heavy problem. Therefore, returning to the politics of the National Movement Party and the strategic importance of mining requires... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in order to increase production and efficiency and ensure job safety, it requires a new and serious structure. I hereby salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0057par0308	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the 683 Section 3213 Mining Law under Section 24 under Article 21 of the Interim Article 21 to be replaced as "the cost of the right base of security." Doğan Gündüz (April) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0058par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0057par0318	Mr. Chooser, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0059par0319	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. We're making some changes in the Mining Law. I've made a commitment to the motion, but while Mr. Energy Minister is here, I'd like to bring up the most important subject of the last few days, which we've had a very serious complaint about. As you all know, there's a deep problem in the electoral district of all my fellow lawmakers: blackouts. We will make some assessments of this, especially in recent weather opposition areas, where winter is intense, that have a very negative impact on commercial life and on human life. Now, Mr. Secretary, you know, this is a matter of electricity, especially after the distribution business has been privatized, where there are extremely intense problems and complaints. In recent days, on a cold night in Mersin, my constituency, banana makers in Anamur have suffered millions of dollars in damage due to power cuts, or electricity cuts in various parts of the country -- again from air opposition -- have caused enormous damage to manufacturing industrial facilities. Why is that? So the current power distribution companies don't provide adequate care, repair? Aren't power distribution companies doing renovations on obsolete transmission lines? And it really is, we're looking at the power lines, the lines made with very old technology, the transformers, the power lines. In this system that's constantly malfunctioning, there's no basis for solving problems. On the other hand, one of the major problems with these power distribution companies is: look, the bills that need to be covered for 30 days are up to fifty-six days, and the bills are inflated. In fact, because these times are delayed, a situation is developing against the consumer because the price of electricity is calculated through new tariffs. On the other hand, the bills are wrong. You see, there's an invoice on the residence, but there's a bill coming in from a different status or a commercial status agency, and they have to pay higher prices. Are these made on purpose, or are they made on purpose? Who controls these things, and how do you fix these mistakes? So if people don't get a good look at the bill they get, if they don't question the number at the bottom, if they go and pay the price, maybe they'll have to pay a price that's being charged for a higher price than a business or an industry company. Who controls these, Mr. Secretary? What is your ministry's work on this matter? We'd like you to brief us on these matters. Now, another thing is the matter of the missing fugitive price. You know, they were reflected in the bills, reflected in the missing fugitive price. Of course, this has gone to trial, and there's a Supreme Court ruling on this, and there have been lawsuits about paying these costs to consumers, and over 2 million subscribers have received extradition costs from here. But then, under different names -- so to speak -- they were reflected in bills as services or, I don't know, maintenance costs. Now, for the last two years, distribution companies have been forced to pay these costs again. Before that, until this period, of course, the government has to pay for the process two years ago. Now, we're looking at a legal arrangement, how do we get past this problem... One day tomorrow, I think he'll come in front of us. Now there's an arrangement in the Plan and Budget about electrical problems again. You know -- you've been following from the press recently -- problems between the Dicle Dispersal Company and Diyarbakır Municipality in Diyarbakır have arisen. Now, for him, the Plan and Budget Commission is setting up a policy-changing arrangement that may save that Tigris Distribution Inc. from this distress, in fact, when the match begins. I wanted to share these problems with you on the basis of these legal negotiations. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0060par0328	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary Article 21 of Article 24: Those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two proposals of the same nature on the interim Article 22 of Article 24. Since it's the same nature, I'm going to process these motions together, but I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion makers, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 683 Orders Numbered "The Law of Manden and the Law of Change in Some Laws" is 24 years old. Temporal 22. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "Till the date when this clause is in effect, the permit to be taken according to Article 7 of Article 24 according to Article 7 shall be imposed according to Article 7 and administrative fine shall be imposed on the basis of the permit for other permits that have been filed into the General Directorate's records, although it has been applied for other permits that have been issued during the duration of the deadline of visas that have been not been granted to the General Manager. The administrative fines are not revoked, they are applied to Article 11 of Article 24 in Article 11 of these licenses." Alim Işım Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Ali Sesam Turgut Dibek Ali Serindağ Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0061par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0060par0348	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0062par0349	Mahmut Tanal...
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0060par0350	Mr. Tanal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0063par0351	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The speaker has just brought up the issue of power cuts, of course, which have become a gangrene in the seven Geography of Turkey. In the weekend, while working on election work in the southeastern part of Mardin, Şanlıurfa districts... at first, I've brought up the problem of unresolved energy from our rare cities, Şanlıurfa. Our glory is, of course, one of the oldest cities in the world, the cradle of human history. Of course, both in our country and in the world, it is called the city of Şanliurfa, the home of the prophets, the land of the prophets, and the city of the prophets. However, it is the central administration that will solve this problem because it cannot solve its own need for electricity itself. Madam Minister, there is war at our side, Syria, believe me, there are seven or eight hours of electricity a day in Syria, seven or eight hours a day in Şanlıurfa. Of course, it's not just me saying it, but I don't know if it's part of your knowledge, but it shows that it's in your knowledge because of the signature on your behalf. In the written question proposal that we gave you, we say: "The electricity goes out between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at Şanluurfa. Why are you doing this? Do you have a struggle with this, do you have an action plan? Yes, you can confirm that in your response to me, sir, but because of the power outage here, because it's winter, because of people using electricity, the current transmission lines are being cut off because they don't remove it. Well, for God's sake, when the electricity was cut off in that privatisation agreement, when there were nine malfunctioning crews between Sanliurfa and Viranşehir, after the privatisation, you brought down these nine malfunctioning crews after the privatisation. I mean, why was the government electrifying it before it was privatized when there were nine teams down to the one? Two, citizens in the region say that we are all treated as thieves, and that's what the Ministry has done. My request is that in the past, you may have spoken out of your mouth, you may have meant wrongly; we ask you to apologize to the people very uncomfortable. Because he says: "My brother, those who steal from boxes of money, planes, and home safes have been cleared, and they do not call them thieves in the region. Shame on those who put us in this position here. They treat us like thieves. They can't accept that as a citizen. Look, Dear Minister, I have the decision of the General Assembly of Law. You know, the Constitution says, "Sir, the court's decisions bind legislation, execution, justice." The Supreme Court's decision says: "Sir, the fugitive, loss and so on should be controlled by the administration itself and seized by whoever is using illegal electricity and who is using electricity." If one person in a village is using electricity illegally, you collectively cut off the electricity of the entire village. Lombroso has an opinion in criminal law that people are born to be guilty. I condemn your actions, your actions, your attitude. So, please, give up this attitude. As for you, again, in the area... you've reached the decision of the Council of Ministers. In the Council of Ministers' decision, you said: "We will not pay the price of support to the farmer until the electricity debt is paid. This is your decision of the Council of Ministers. As a result of our support as the Republican People's Party, we've decided to stop running this decision. Please pay the citizen's premiums in accordance with the decision of this State. And if you don't pay, then this sacrifice has really increased. I don't know, if you really had put these electricity coins in the contract when they were being auctioned off, at a higher price, this electricity administration could be privatized. In this way, you've practically favoured the company that has privatized the current electricity management. Otherwise, you wouldn't have been able to remove the suspicion of tampering with the tender, because you didn't say at the time, "If you buy this place, we won't pay the benefits that will be paid to the citizens, we'll cut it from this source." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We ask you to inform the public in accordance with these statements. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0064par0364	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. From the National Movement Party, Mr. Halaman, please.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0065par0367	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised the motion that we have made as the National Movement Party for Law Bill 683. I salute you all with love. Of course, this law is energy, so it's a mine, but when we look at energy or mine in the present 12 years of power, I don't see anything that I'm very optimistic about. I mean, in my area... We're going to transfer it to the private sector or to foreign capital, and we're going to set up private offices for this -- medical offices -- and we're going to have them audited through this channel. So, I had some friends in my area, whether it's chrome or copper, who did this mining thing. They said they made money for a period of 12 years. All of them, including the mover, went bankrupt, which is pretty much to say, most of the miners went bankrupt. So there are already several foreign companies who are interested in underground mines. Here, these are often called the Jews. So none of those with subcontractors -- that's how they do it for a license -- didn't get a decent result. Therefore, this law is not a law that will answer to the economies of people who work in this mine, what they do. Another one is that we still have the Hurlbeyite in Adana. This is a thermal plant in Hurlbeyli, and these plowers have found a foreign partner, so they call it treasured land. What did the government do? He gave me a treasure guarantee. They say we're bringing in capital. And while they were doing it, they gave it to me for forty-nine years. So, because the villages around him had a desire to build, to buy, they bought three or five villages, and their team, and here's the low price, and so they bought their farm, and their team, and so they said, "Get out of here." That's a lot of environmental damage. But it's called purpose: I mean, Turkey needs energy. The water's flowing, and here our Adanans have invaded like they're looking. Now, the thermal power plant has started -- and I know it's the past term -- the time we're dealing with -- the fight never ends, so there's a fight every day. Again, our Adana had these rivers; here they said, HES, again, these plowers, these foreign companies, they came, they burst, they burst, they die. And because it's the government that buys it, it's a very sweet job, actually, from the local coal that's being done, so they're making a lot of money. I mean, is there another sector in Turkey that has a buyer, other than energy? The man will produce, and he will sell expensively; therefore, the lentils, barley, wheat, which he had planted as many men as he wanted; these things will not be considered; they will say, "Come on, energy is more profitable, go elsewhere." So, the private firm that collects them is now. I was on my way to the industrial site the other day, the tractor, you know, the repair, the rotary mooten, the electricity keeps going out. With the power out, you can't find out who you're gonna tell. Now, maybe it's not right to name this collection, but I'm giving it to you-- the plowers... they call it. Yes, fifty years ago, these plowmen withdrew the money from Adana, and from the wool of Kazan, and from the wool of Kazanah, and went to Istanbul. They didn't even pay their taxes in Adana. I mean, what happened in those five years when they went back to Adana and took his water, took his water, took the mine from the ground. So we're going to do it without money, and we're going to produce more energy. I say that none of this law has a law on our mine that will answer at the point of energy recovery, respect and love to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0066par0375	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 24.. those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the interim Article 23 of Article 24. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the "haric" declaration in the second joke of the Interim 23rd Amendment to the 683 Numbered Mining Law shall be changed to "involuntary" in accordance with Article 24 of the framework. Mehmet Ali Sesam Turgut Dibek Ali Serindağ Mahmut Tanal Ramazan Kerim Özkan Osman Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Sequential "Medane Law and the 24th Amendment to some Laws. Temporal 23. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Does the commission agree with this motion I've submitted? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0067par0396	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0066par0397	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0068par0399	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made under Article 23 of the 24th Article of the Law Bill 683 that is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. Our proposal is that this interim clause will be removed from the draft text because it is a clause related to existing redevance contracts, and I share it with you exactly the way it is in the bill: the current recursion agreements must be given to the General Manager within three months of the day when this clause is in effect. So, you're saying to the people you've given them, we've taken the blood out, give it back to me. The demands for extensions of license zones, which have not been terminated, are not acceptable, except for their participation with public institutions and institutions. So, the areas of TİYI (Tİ) and Turkey's subsidiaries and their activities do not enter these restrictions, we subcontract it, privatize it as we wish; as a government, we withdraw from this field; we confiscate any licenses available to others, cancel any redevance agreements. Dear lawmakers, if the state is confessing that I don't want to remove the coal from its territory, that I can't, we need to speak openly here. This is a confession, but this creates an area in which new practices will come to the agenda, which will pave the way for subcontractors again, and many miners will again give their lives in Soma. If the government can't keep its own property, then there's no point in having a government. And you're going to keep public spaces out of these regulations... so as a state, we keep the people we give the right to rejection separate from the others because they're our relatives, these are the people of the state, these are very privileged men of the AKP government, these rules don't apply to them, and that's what you're saying. This is also against the principle of equality. The motions have just been voted on in Article 22 of the Interim article, which has not been accepted. Dear MPs, what's going on here is that for any reason Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has ever applied, for any reason that he doesn't have, you're going to go to the Prime Minister's office and bring a fine of $30,000 to those who are waiting in the office of the Prime Minister. Have mercy, have mercy! That was 50, down to 30. At the very least -- because there is no self-inflicted reason -- draw it for a base price of 10,000 TL, and people will be able to pay it. You've made a man vomit blood for two and a half years, you haven't paid him, you haven't paid him, you haven't let him pay him, you've given him permission, now you know him for a while. If you don't invest that money in this time, you're done. So, in this way, these arrangements will bring out new problems. Mr. Faruk Bal has just stated, Mr. Secretary last week: 1.224 permits are waiting for the mining site in the Prime Minister's office. What's he waiting for, brother? There's no answer. Why? There's no answer. We've kept them waiting here for two years, and now you'll blow the whistle if you don't give me the money. If you don't give me the money, the whistle will go away, and I'll take it away from you, and I'll give this field to my ally... that's what it means.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0069par0404	Negotiation, negotiation.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0068par0405	We can't make a law like that, we shouldn't. I'm saying this industry is so unfair. Thus, the previous item, which we're now discussing, is two important substances that will cause serious problems to happen again in this sector. Thus, it would be appropriate for the public to remove subcontractorisation and privatisation from the draft text. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0070par0408	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the "haric" declaration in the second joke of the Interim 23rd Amendment to the 683 Numbered Mining Law shall be changed to "involuntary" in accordance with Article 24 of the framework. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABII EVIL EVILS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISION AFFECT ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0071par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0070par0418	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0072par0420	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 23 of the 24th Article of Law Bill 683. I salute you all. What we mean by this motion is that we've lost a lot of citizens last year because of the accidents we had in Soma and Ermenek, and, of course, it is imperative that certain measures be taken as a result of these accidents. Therefore, we have submitted this motion because we believe that public enterprises and underground coal companies, especially through subcontractors and redevans, will continue to suffer. The consideration of this motion is indeed because we believe that in the coming process, there can be a longer-term, more healthy underground enterprises, as a result of investments by the state, by the coal company. We specifically want this motion taken into consideration by the government. We believe it will contribute to underground coal management in the coming process. Yeah, guys, mining is really important to our economy. In 2013, we had an import of 107 billion dollars, and when we consider 60 billion dollars in oil and natural gas products, it is clear and clear that the $57 billion of it is part of the law, which is run by that law. In this regard, the Mining Law is crucial to the closure of our economy's biggest problem of foreign trade deficits. With this law, if we can bring our underground resources into action and reduce the barriers to the sector, we can provide a large portion of this 57 billion-dollar foreign trade deficit from our own resources and also make a very positive contribution to closing the heavy foreign trade deficit of our economy, and we think that it would really contribute greatly to the opening of the mining industry in order to bring down the unemployment figures that rise above the 10 percent of the young unemployed today, above 20 per cent of the 20 per cent, in order to ensure employment. Mining is particularly important for our economy and for our country's development, especially for jobs to contribute to rural areas. Indeed, if we employ one miner, it is seen in a clear and clear way that it allows eight people to be able to do so. Because mining, with its industry, with its small trades, takes many sectors directly into the service group, and therefore has a huge economic impact on its environment. And in this respect, it's very important that we open the way for the industry through this law that we're doing through the Mining Law. The biggest obstacle to the sector is the Prime Minister's General Assembly, which was raised in 2014, friends. Today, indeed, the sector is still having second thoughts about this sentence, and it specifically wants to be removed so that it does not relive its huge economic collapse in 2013. The reduction of heavy fines in the law to a reasonable degree is really important in the sector, because with these heavy fines, the industry is pushed into great financial difficulties. Other than that, one of the biggest problems in the industry is the cost of rent on forest land. Indeed, the annual rent prices, which reached 600 per cent of the forest ministry's latest generalization, have exceeded the property prices on Gediz Plain, the Plains of Menderes. Therefore, it is imperative, immediately, that this regulation under the Law of the Forest be reduced to reasonable levels. My respects to all of you. I wish the law to the good of the industry.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0073par0429	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 23 of Article 24: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the interim article 24, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 683 Orders Numbered Mine Law shall be changed as subsidized in Article 24 under the Interim 24th Article of the Interim Code. Mehmet Ali Sesam Turgut Dibek Ali Serindağ Mahmut Tanal Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Ordered Mining Law and the 24th Amendment to some Laws. Temporarily 24. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "Club MADDE 24- There was an application before this clause came into effect, but its transactions were not completed, and its tuition and registration warrants were not submitted, and if the registration fee is paid within six months of the date of this clause's application, the registration process will be completed according to legislation in the date of the application date." Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ali Ali Halaman Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0074par0451	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0073par0452	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0075par0453	Mr Turkkan will speak, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0073par0454	Mr. Turkkan, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0076par0456	Mr. President, I have made a promise to the esteemed MPs regarding the 24th Amendment to the Mining Law and some Laws. I salute you all. It's been spoken of here for a long time about this mining law. This mining law only reminds me of a view in Soma. Mr. Secretary: There's a man on the ground who's kicking a miner's relatives... and if that man is still there as a consultant, you shouldn't be standing here, if you're standing here, that man shouldn't be standing there. If there's a man still out there kicking these people, it's a little absurd that you're sitting here, I'm sorry, forgive me. Mr. Secretary, I'm a member of a county that's been seriously damaged by the last storm. Ships sank in the harbor, where their businesses were severely damaged by storms and waves. We made an insurance policy called DASK, which our government brought in. These insurance bills have been collected somewhere, and so far no one has given us any information as to the outcome of the insurance money. What happened to all this money? Were any of these coins paid to any citizen in any disaster? Or was this money spent on this runaway palace, like the unemployment fund? I have a question for you about that, and we've submitted a question to the Finance Minister, and we're waiting for an answer. I want to know if this sacrifice of our citizens will really be removed, or if we've taken the tax on depression before, and we've built a palace with it. If you're going to disappear, I want to know. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, there's a man in cyberspace, phenomenon. I don't know if it's a phenomenon or not, but that's what they say. We all know him, a man called Fuat Avni. This man wrote a lot of things recently, and every morning he wrote, and the next morning, it happened. These names will be arrested. He said, "These names have been taken; this event will happen." He said, "These things have been taken." A more serious incident he had shared in the past few days; he shared some things about Cizre, which he had ordered the special operations of Efkan Ala. He said, "Strike." He made such a claim. Special Ops are also indifferent to this order, starting to shoot people in Cizre. The purpose of this order was to regain nationalist votes and to take credit for the rising nationalist movement. Minister of the Interior Efkan Ala gave the order, but the real order is from the elder brother. I want to tell big brother about nationalism here. Although, it's not the right thing to tell a nationalist a man who's got nationalism under his belt, but I'll tell him again, and those who want to understand it understand it, and those who don't want to understand it go on. It's not killing as soon as nationalism happens. Nationalism is to sacrifice your life for the sake of your country, for the sake of the flag, for the sake of the oppressor without blinking. Nationalism means falling to the ground for the sake of a crescent. Nationalism is not just an iron tattoo, it's not a tie. It's about being in love with the nation of nationalism. Nationalism is Osman Bey, nationalism is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, nationalism is Alparslan Turkesh. Nationalism is not about speaking in Hakkari. It is not about twisting in Balıkesir. (Applause from MHP rows) Nationalism is to be able to call a terrorist in the home of a terrorist, such as our President-General, Dr. State Gardenli. Nor is it nationalism to send greetings from Diyarbakır to Kobani, or Batman. Those who greet the terrorists in Kobani, and try to play zeybek in Aydın, who want to open the prime minister's office in İzmir, can't understand nationalism even if they want to, can't even get through the door of nationalism. It's not enough for their savings, their caliber, their capacity. Don't forget that no nationalist, race, sect, language, religion, no matter what, will rejoice when an innocent dies. Those who give this order can't eat bread from nationalists like this. There is no nationalism by reaching for 2.80 in front of the Imran. The laws they want are not to be nationalized, nor can they be taken out of the House because the Kandil asked for them to. The election date is coming up, and it's only been four months. I'd like to give a final reminder to the nationalist voters, just before the election is so short. No matter what you do, tear yourself apart, you will not get the vote of a single nationalist citizen whose heart burns with love of the country. Your threads are in the market. Nationalists don't vote for thieves. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0077par0465	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "three months" in Article 24 of the Interim Article 24 shall be replaced as "six months" under the current Mining Law No. 683. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION, AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir) ▪ We are not participating, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0078par0474	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0077par0475	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0079par0477	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Mining Law is a subject that needs to be looked at as a whole in terms of the use of underground wealth, the production of raw materials for the energy that society needs, the forests, the water basins, the echo system. It's not enough to just look at the angle of mining. In the process discussed by the Law Commission, Mr. Secretary, I participated in some of their meetings. In the matter of the Mining Law, I observed with regret that it was not considered to be nature's protection, the pollution of the environment, the destruction of our forests, the preservation of our above-ground wealth. I've seen his perspective -- unfortunately -- act on his understanding of producing energy no matter what. Dear lawmakers, of course, it's very important to take advantage of our underground wealth, but we shouldn't lose our above-ground wealth, our natural beauty, our forests, our agricultural areas, our subterranean waters, so we shouldn't destroy our living areas. In this regard, Turkey has failed in its environmental health with the legislation it has made in recent years. Minister, I'd like to remind you that the Plan is in the budget... would you listen to me, Mr. Secretary? I asked you a question in the Plan Budget. In editing the Power Market Law, I said in some articles, especially those thermal power plants, the CED reports were exempted until 2018. No, that's not what you said. Look, here's the item, temporary item 8... He's not listening, Minister, he's not listening! Temporal element 8. I don't need to read the same thing, you have one. It says whether or not you have immunity from the CED is granted to you by 31/12/2018. In fact, electricity production activities within the scope of the law and their privatisations cannot be stopped, not even administrative fines can be fined. This is your point of view. So you contaminated nature, destroyed the environment, destroyed it for the sake of thermal power plants, for the sake of energy. Look, I want to give you an example. One of Turkey's most important, perhaps perhaps most beautiful places in the world is the Gulf, the Kaz Mountains, one of the areas where there is plenty of oxygen. In the area of the Kaz Mountains, cyanide and gold were allowed to be searched in your time. The ground has become a mole's nest. Now, there's about 300-350 tons of gold reserve in this legislation. So the price today is $5.6 billion. So, Minister, I ask you, do you know how much the annual income of the Gulf is from agriculture, agriculture, and tourism, from the Gulf of Edremit, from Ayvaluk, Akçaj, from Altunoluk, from Balıkesir? About $6 billion. So our above-ground wealth is way ahead of our underground wealth right now, more random. Does it have anything to do with logic to destroy forests in such areas, to kill the land in the region, to kill the fruit trees in the region, to contaminate the underground waters with cyanide? I'll give you another example like this: you said: "We're going to take nickels out of Mount Play in Manisa." The nickel you will remove in Mount Çiz will destroy the world-famous sultania grapes in Gediz Plain, and the agricultural fields in that region will be destroyed. When we take nickels out, we'll build a sulfuric acid factory in the area, don't we know that the sulfuric acid plant and the vaporized acid will be poured into the Gediz Plains as acid rains? Now I'm asking you, yes, let's take advantage of the underground mines, and I have no objection to that, but if our above-ground wealth is greater than our wealth in the underground mines, please, let's go over it again. However, this mining law concerns the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the economy, the energy, but no matter what it is, while this legislation is being regulated, other ministries concerning this legislation are being ignored, only energy is being considered. Thank you for listening to me. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0080par0492	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0081par0495	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit03spe0080par0496	You have a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Bay Bayututan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Morglu, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Sevelk, Mr. Develi. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough numbers for a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-02-03sit04spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The meeting was not enough in the roll call before the draft of the motion issued by Ezekiel MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends on the interim 24th Article of the Law Bill 683. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Since the second roll call was not enough, the decision was made to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them on Wednesday (February 4th 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
