tbmm-2015-01-13sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There are enough meetings, 222 people have left, and we're going to start the talks. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Adana's problems. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I especially want to talk about the electricity that has been cut frequently in our Adana province for the past two months. Adana is completely in the dark. Again, it's a process where electricity is cut 8 to 10 times a day, our Adana province. When the citizen reaches 186, and tries to explain his problem, he is unable to deal with it in 186. As a congressman, I've been having trouble reaching out to the EDAS authorities for a month. I warn the government of this: you do not have the luxury of putting the Adana in darkness in the state's environment, in the name of self - care, in the environment in which you pursue the property of the public. It is the government's duty to find a solution to these blackouts in Adana at once, and I call upon the government at this point. Dear MPs, you know, Adana was one of Turkey's first industrialised cities since the first years of industrialization in the 1950s. The capital of agriculture, the capital of industry, the capital of commerce, is one of the first three or four cities in Turkey, while unfortunately, the ruling party's Justice and Development Party is going back 13 years each day. Within thirteen years, in your time in power, 39 factories were closed in Adana, nearly 40,000 people lost their jobs. The city where unemployment is busiest in 81 provinces is Adana. Adana is ranked 58th in education, 56th in health, and 50th in the ranking of habitable cities. Again, at the point of receiving public investments, compared to the population, it ranked 81... in public investment in 81 counties. When we look at the credit card debt, we see that the number of people who failed to pay the credit card debt and the loan he took has reached 514,000 in Adana. So one of the four people in Adana is in debt to the banks. Again, agriculture is dying, the fields have become uncultivable. The cotton farmer is miserable, the corn planters are the same; the citrus goes for 30 to 35 cents. And as if that wasn't enough, he got his panties in a twist. Currently, the farms of our farmers in Adana have become mortgaged to the Agriculture Bank or private banks. We think this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Now, dear lawmakers, before the election of 2011, do you know what the Prime Minister says in Adana's famous Station Square? The city of Adana is a city of commerce, a city of industry; the city of the sacrificing farmer of Adana Çukurova. Yeah, who said that? Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the period. Now, on behalf of the Adanans, Mr. Prime Minister, what kind of love is this for Adana? Yes, before you, Adana was a city of industry, Adana was a city of civilization, Adana was a city of agriculture, but in your thirteen-year-old rule, your hostile look at Adana, at the point of not investing in Adana, today Adana struggles with unemployment, poverty, hardship. And in 2011 he was saying in Station Square: we are not like others. That's the difference between us and the Justice and Development Party. We do what we promise. In 2011, I ask the Prime Minister, despite the past four years, who promised 11 at Station Square, which investment did you make? Yes, that's the difference between you and other people, not keeping your promise, not keeping your promise. And it was not enough for you, that, in the year 2012, you took Adana, and took him into the second district, and struck Adana at the point of investment, and cut off the investments that came to Adana. In Adana, right now, everyone's looking for work, looking for food. While your children, spouses, relatives are in public, in private places in the form of VIP torpedoes, Adana struggles with unemployment. The Prime Minister came to Ceyhan, the President, and he said... they had ceremonies in 2007. It's been eight years, and you still haven't been able to get the nationalization done. I'm calling from here, what is this Adana hostility? What is the main reason for your negative view of Adana? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Omer Faruk Öz, who asked for a comment on the Day of World Workers' Journalists on January 10th. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the honorable lawmakers' Day of World Workers' Journalists on January 10th. I hereby salute your high council. As it is known, from the earliest time in human history, information and information have been a great thrill and a right to human beings. Dear lawmakers, journalism contributes significantly to the development of democracy in addition to the constitution's laws, executives and jurisprudences in today's communities. In this framework, the protection and development of media freedom are one of the most important requirements of democratic society's order, because in democratic societies, free press is local, and often, if there is, it will reduce the mistakes and be a guide. However, there is another issue that is as important as the protection of freedom of the press. There are also universal principles such as not being abused, correct reporting, neutrality, respect for privacy, the rights of society and individuals. At this point, I condemn and condemn the well-known media boss Rupert Murdoch, who remains in the classroom on universal principles, because of the Twitter message that holds all Muslims responsible for the terrorist attacks in Paris. It reminds me that terrorism has no religion or color, and I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in Sultanahmet, Yemen, northern Nigeria and Paris. Dear MPs, no doubt neutral, primordial, free and press, are a key part of the social development and development of journalism, which is fully aware of its responsibilities. However, it is necessary to remember that journalism is an essential element of our democracy and that democracy has a basis for balance in order to ensure social peace and prosperity, and to act in that sense of responsibility. Without a doubt, a sense of public interest, respect for private life, understanding of the fundamental principles of the law, a sincere journalism that will make our people's confidence in our journalists continue to increase our press' reputation. Dear lawmakers, politics begins in the local area, and newspapering begins in the local area. I want to add the promise. Because when it comes to journalism, the importance of the local press is too great to be underestimated. In addition to the reporting function, local media have contributed substantially to the development of democracy in the local region and to the knowledge of its regional issues in order to contribute to the education and information of the locals and to the awareness of what is going on around it. Thus, despite limited resources, especially in Malatya, my constituency district, the fight by local media in Turkey in terms of journalism is admirable. As in any profession, journalists today have no doubt great problems. Journalists who are not fully compensated for their efforts are experiencing major economic chasms with their colleagues in their profession. So far, both as government and Parliament, as Parliament, we, as press workers, have provided every opportunity to serve in a free, healthy environment, but I want to point out that these efforts will continue to increase. Is that enough? Of course not, but I would also like to point out that from here, in the coming process, we will make every effort at the point of resolving the shortcomings of our fellow journalists, both local and national, and in our Parliament. Dear lawmakers, I honor and commend the dedicated journalists who seek news by risking their lives in conflict, in wars, in different parts of the world. It is also known as a highly honorable profession, which is one of the most difficult professions in the world, without a sense of time and time, without a sense of self - sacrifice and love. On this occasion, I welcome all the journalists who have died for the sake of their profession. As I end my words, I salute your grand delegation. I say this is the worst day of all our fellow journalists, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The third word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0006par0045	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, yes, in every part of our home country, we're having some trouble from time to time due to heavy rain these days. The biggest problem of these problems is the problems of land roads and the shortages of electricity in areas due to snow. However, because of the snow that fell just before Christmas, there has been a very difficult process in our province of Bilecik. Because of the heavy snowfall, we've seen our farmers who make their living farming and produce greenhouses suffer a great deal of damage. I took a trip to Willows and Inhisar districts and villages, a day after Christmas, and took a trip. And the reason for this trip was to examine and locate the greenhouses that were damaged here. Yes, on that day, I went to Bilecik, Süğüt district, following the direction of our President-in-Chief, and when I arrived, I found a truly shocking landscape because I know that Bilcik County is slowly working with a structure that is economically related to industry, and the industry is starting to grow slowly, but when I went there, I saw that it really became the Antalya Eureka of Marmara. Inhisar and Willowt districts -- about -- I've seen people live on greenhousery in villages. Unfortunately, due to heavy snowfalls, the greenhouses collapsed, about 70 per cent, 80 per cent collapsed, and there was major damage. And let me tell you, my Bilecik MP friends -- we don't have an MP -- they went to the area after me, and they even shared some of what I said with the citizen. But it's also a fact that the citizen can't produce there, the only source of livelihood is greenhousery, and in all the months of the year, these greenhouse activities -- winter, summer and spring -- continue. Now, there are things that need to be done. First of all, the damage assessment was first. Thank you, Mr. Governor. He finished the damage assessment by the end of the week. As of the beginning, we thought there had been 4,000 acres of damage here, and the villagers, as the farmers had forwarded to us, there was damage in a 3,262-yard area, there was damage in the greenhouse; 767 farmers were affected by this damage in 23 villages. Look, guys, that's a very important number, the cost of a one-point greenhouse is between 15 and 20,000 dollars. All the products in it were destroyed, all the product gone. With the product in it, the damage is 30,000 euros per year. So there are things that need to be done very quickly. One of them is that because those greenhouses can't be used again and can't be repaired, the greenhouses need to be torn down quickly. There's a source for that. We discussed the budget here the other day. The Treasury Department has a backup budget, which is used in natural disasters, floods, unexpected jobs. Again, the PM has a covered grant. Yeah, we use it for Syrian, maybe we should use it for ISIS militants, we shouldn't use it for them, but I say we should use it for my people. (Applause from CHP rows) 767 farmers -- I won't say at least -- per yard, just per farmer -- have to be paid 2,000 dollars fast, subtraction money. I'm accelerating because my time is too short. And these farmers have debts to their agricultural loan co-ops, banks and other financial companies. These debts must be postponed very quickly. They're so humble that new greenhouses can be built that we don't want all of our Seras, and if there's enough opportunity to do at least half of them, we'll pay our government. They're so modest. Another feature of these villages: they also employ outside jobs, as they employ in their own villages, because the hard workers' activities, the body power, are not enough to produce them, they provide jobs from outside. So they do a good job. We have to support them as a government. Well, the government does these days. I think if the government shows up there today, we'll be able to deal with the victims of those people. Yes, half of the 3,262 can be built. For that to be done, it has to be done in April, in October. They also say: "If the state holds our hands, and we can grow them to the month of April, and to the month of October, and to the month of March, and we can build our greenhouses with the help of the state, we will pay our money and debt like lions. It is not free money they demand, it is not free money. They have a seven-year loan demand without paying back two years. They make it clear, and they say, "We'll pay you back." Now, here's what we need to do, with the Finance Minister, with the Minister of Agriculture, with the Minister of Finance: I'm taking the greenhouses out of the reserve budget. He's going to tell the governor, and he's going to tell the governor. And our Minister of Agriculture will say, "I guarantee this loan." And I say, "We'll do it together," and I say, "Thank you."
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0007par0055	The Minister of Development is there, Minister of Development.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0008par0056	Thank you, Mr. Akar. According to the 60th article, I will fulfill the very brief demands of words. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0009par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. The founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which dedicated its life to the Turkish Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots on the 3rd anniversary of its death, I ask the great Lord Rauf Denktas, the great leader of the Turkish Cypriots. Denktash followed in the footsteps of Ataturk, and created a state after a society of Turkish Cypriots from the Turkish Cypriot people, who dedicated their lives to the Turkish nation, who lived in cantons in disarray. Denktash is the future and future flag of the Turkish nation in Cyprus. His role model personality, courage, determination, and determination have dealt more with Denktas, a unique place in Turkish history than with the Greek and Turkish enemies, the AKP government. Let it not be forgotten that those who destroy their heroes deserve to be destroyed. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0010par0064	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0011par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. The pendik-Haydarpaşa speed train project has stopped saying the contractor had escaped. It's all ponds in there. The constructions there destroyed the subgates and overpasses. Many of our citizens cross the tracks are not able to pass because the opposite neighborhoods are divided, our children are miserable on their way to school. The Ministry needs to make a statement and find a solution here as soon as possible. At the same time, media reports have reported that all high-level bureaucrats have been flagged in the General Directorate of State Air Squares, following reports that TCDD had been printed. The Ministry has claimed that the chips were made with an institutional level and a central decision. The documents reflected in the press show that there are expressions about the bureaucrat, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about his people, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him, about him. Who provided the documents regarding the personnel employed by the General Directorate of the State Airports and its directorates? Who instructed you to do that? The people of this country...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0012par0070	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0013par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. I am grateful and grateful in the 3rd year of the death of the Turkish world's former President and brave leader Rauf Denktas, who was among the leaders of the late Bashbug Alparslan Türkesh. I'd like to make a statement from him. Rauf Denktaş says: "The main reason why Turkish Cypriots and Balkan Turks care more about the inevitability of Turkish existence than those in Anatolia is because they have experienced the pain of being without a state, without flags and without persecution." He explains why our beautiful Turkish language should be taken care of. I say God rest his soul.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0014par0076	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0015par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to heavy snowfalls in the past few weeks, there have been long-term blackouts in our districts of Bursa Ingegöl, Yenişehir, Keles and surrounding villages, and our province has created a long-term loss of constant failures and intervention. Due to such intense and long-term electrical failures and blackouts, our citizens are in charge of UEDAS and its sub-responsive company, Ulug Energy Distribution. Is it true that 16 employees working in companies have been terminated because they want to be organized under the ENERGY-SEN Union? Is there any reason why these experienced workers, who are in charge of the infrastructure of the region, have been laid off for so long the electrical failures and blackouts of our Bursa Inegöl district and its villages? Who will provide the victims of this attitude and behavior between the employer and the worker? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0016par0081	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0017par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. The great leader of the Turkish Cypriot struggle for independence, the founding President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the worthy human, fighting man Mr. Rauf Denktas, we honor and thank you as the Republican People's Party Group on the anniversary of his death. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby present to the attention of the government the problem that two of our citizens have sent me, but that I see as a society, not as an individual. A citizen of ours, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, called me from Mardin Kızıltepe. On August 30, 2014, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu signed an unlawful decree. The money that the farmers will receive from the agricultural support system should be paid in exchange for what they're owed to electricity companies, that's the decree. If the farmer does not pay the electricity debt by September 15, 2014, he will be paid directly to the electricity company by the state he will receive without agricultural support. This decision is illegal, and even though the State has cancelled its decision, these farmers are still not paid for, their electricity is cut. The government shouldn't condone this illegality. I'm inviting the government on duty. The second issue is the electricity problem of the Workers' Neighborhood of Tripoli's Dernekpazarı district. The electricity in this neighborhood is still not connected despite the mayor's efforts. Employees are largely in the dark in the neighborhood. From here, I present this matter to the Minister's attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0018par0088	Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0019par0090	The third anniversary of the death of Rauf Denktas, the founder of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. In a sense, the history of the Cyprus struggle is the life of Denktas. Periods of nations raise flags, they always walk ahead, they resist all kinds of slanders, attacks, they represent a country, a case, a nation; Denktaş was always such a leading leader. Rauf Denktaş, as a tough political negotiator, appeared to be uncompromising, stubborn, but played an important role in breaking the tradition of the Turks who lost behind the desk. Denktas is a man who has triumphed over his defeats. He was a man who did not allow the borders of the Turkish Empire to disappear. He is the last representative of the Turkish will to form a state in the 20th century. He was the leader of Cypriot Species, and Turkey was his. Now, his friend, Dr. Fazil Small, and the mujahideen, remembers the late politician, politician and statesman Rauf Denktas, on the 3rd anniversary of his death, whose soul calls for heaven from the Most High God; he believes that one day the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will be recognized by the world, as it was yesterday...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0018par0092	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0020par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. The offensive attacks in Paris have once again revealed the importance of fighting with the climate of hate and culture of violence. Turkey's opposition to its power and participation in the march in Paris, the freedom of the press, and the culture of living together have sent a message to the world. If we are sincere in our position in Paris, we must quickly fight the climate of hatred that will produce future Kuashi brothers in our country. In Tatvan, the municipality Billboardna, the hate speech reflected on social media and Akit's pages is concrete evidence that Turkey is in the grip of hatred. I immediately urge the government to adopt a comprehensive law on hate crimes, to apply for membership in the European Central Rights Agency, and to implement the Council of Anti-Discrimination and Equality. Let's not allow hatred and discrimination in Turkey.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0018par0096	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0021par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Veysel Eroglu said that there was no such thing when his relatives of the Minister and members of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs were assigned to the staff in an irregular manner. But it turns out that when the VIP torpedo list was announced today, the minister and many members of the Ministry of the Forest and of Water, the minister and the majority of lawmakers were taken in an irregular manner. We will continue to address our nation's rights and unlawfulities on this parliamentary stand, and I invite Veysel Eroglu to explain at this point. Again, more than 100,000 Syrian refugees live in our Adana province according to official figures. They're trying to survive under difficult winter conditions. At the same time, there is a process where unemployment is intense in Adana, for 15-20 lira a day, where normal young people from Adana are laid off and run them. Adana is already struggling with unemployment, Turkey is the busiest city of unemployment. And this is a number of social figures in our Adana province...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0022par0102	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0023par0104	Mr. President, thank you. Now, there's no Minister of Energy here, no Minister of Agriculture, but we'd appreciate it if you would. Now, there are 15 counties of our Adana, so there's one side of Hurlbeyli, one side Karataş, the ovaries, but lately there's been a lot of power outages in schools, hospitals, industry, houses, so there's been a tremendous loss. They've been having a lot of trouble with the citrus garden lately, too, because of these panties. I just wanted to tell you that the Minister of Agriculture would be interested in the Minister of Energy. I thank you and thank you, Mr. President, if you will.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0024par0108	Thank you, too, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0025par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of a normal snowfall last week in Samsun, many village roads have shut down and their electricity has been cut off. In the opening of the roads, the city municipality and lower municipalities have been very inadequate in the distribution company, YEDAS, regarding power cuts. The plumbing is very old, the poles are rotten, so it malfunctions in the slightest rain. For 15 days, we've had closed-door villages with no electricity. Because the roads were closed, the ambulance could not go to Meşeliturkmen neighborhood of Bafra, and the mother was given birth by telephone. Many of our citizens have been looking for us. In the face of new rains, the city municipality and YEDAS must take immediate precautions. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0026par0114	Mr. Dilek Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0027par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today our disabled friends from the banister called us, saying that they were having trouble walking because of the snow and that there were natural obstacles put in front of their barriers, and that the holiday process for students in public should be for all the disabled in the private sector and in the public, and that they might fall down again and cripple some of their parts for the second time. I'll pass it on from here. In the private sector and in public, I think it's time to organize a snow break or a nature barrier holiday. On the other hand, at one o'clock in the evening, I got up from the footman, and was here at nine o'clock. The roads were very neglected, there was no salting at all, we came through great dangers, many people came in the same way. The lack of care on land roads and no precautionary measures are indeed a victim to all our citizens. And I hope that the power will hear that, so there won't be any more accidents. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0028par0120	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0029par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today is indeed the 3rd anniversary of the death of the Turkish state and political man, the Kurdu, the Mujahideen of Cyprus and the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Rauf Denktas. We remember him with mercy and gratitude, as the National Party of Action, may his place be in heaven. Mr. President, I'd also like to make a point if there are any ministers here. Sir, people from the villages in Dargenit district of Mardin province are looking for the National Movement Party, and they've called me. In particular, they say they haven't had electricity in months, unfortunately, because of these electricity, that they're in a lot of trouble. The minister may be eyes, but I'd like to report to the eyes and ears here the status of the villages in Dargeçit district of Mardin. Also, of course, there are problems in Sanlıurfa, and in their towns, and in their villages. I would also like to say that I have warned the government about the immediate measures in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0030par0127	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0031par0129	Mr. President, thank you very much. As the AK PARTY Group, we ask the first President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Rauf Denktas, for God's mercy, for the 3rd year of his death. In 1967, he took a boat to Cyprus, where he was captured by the Greeks, and then got rid of Turkey's initiatives and began his fight in Cyprus. That's a long history. The leader of the people who fought for the rights of the Turkish community there carried out important tasks as leader. At the same time, I would also like to commemorate Dr. Fazil Minor, one of the leaders of the same case, again, because his death date is January 15, 1984, the 31st anniversary of his death. There are various leaders of such social and national cases, and they send their flags to each other. I'd like to bless Fazil Minor, Rauf Denktas, and all the other martyrs who gave their lives to this cause, and all the other people who worked hard for their own good here. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0032par0135	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three general consultation motions, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to assess the cause and consequences of increasing violence and law enforcement in major cities, we would like to submit a general discussion under Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group. With all due respect. Mersin Izmir Group Deputy Chairman of the Group In major cities, the incidents of law and violence are increasing rapidly over the years. According to the number of crimes committed in large cities in 2001-2003, there were 82,529 in Istanbul, 30,887 in Ankara, 22,482 in İzmir, 14,787 in Bursa, 14.667 in Antalya, 11,551 in Mersin, and 10.532 in Gaziantep district. As of 2003, the sum of the crimes committed in İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Bursa, Adana, Konya, Gaziantep, Antalya, Mersin are 203,409 per cent of the 322,189 crimes committed throughout Turkey. Again, the crime rate of 100,000 in 2003 was 674 in Turkey, 1,372 in Antalya, 1,072 in Mersin, 832 in İstanbul, 816 in Ankara, 764 in İzmir. According to the 2010 statistical figures, the number of crime crimes committed in major cities in Istanbul, which was 82,529 in 2003, increased from 174,122 in Istanbul, from 14.667 in Antalya to 27,866 in Ankara, from 30,887 to 100,871 in Ankara, from 22.482 to 86,668 in İzmir, to 36,181 in Mersin. The growth in populations of major cities in 2003-2010 has been seen to be very high. Social, political and economic policies, which have been implemented by the AKP authorities for the past ten years, appear to have led to a rapid increase in violence in major cities. As a result of growth policies imposed by the AKP's authorities and not based on production, injustice in the revenue distribution has increased both unemployment and migration to major cities due to the lack of capital. This increased immigration, unemployment, violence, theft, murder, injury, substance abuse, violence against women, suicides. Increases in civility and violence also indicate the wear and tear process of power. The current government cannot provide realistic solutions to social problems. Unfortunately, some of our unresolved people are turning to crime. It is imperative that crimes against individuals and property, which directly affect the individual in society, be brought to a level where there is no security concern in society. Investments to prevent crime will be more useful and cheaper than efforts to apprehend the criminal. One of the main reasons for the rise of civility in major cities may be that the punishments for crimes committed against property are not deterrents. The lack of arrest or sufficient punishment of the thief leads him to commit crimes hundreds of times. When stealing or selling property is not punished, theft is also encouraged. The reduction of police resources and capabilities should be considered, as well as more severe punishment for resisting police action and harming them. Therefore, the detection of terrorism, rapid and warped industrialisation, the unemployment rates of urbanization, the number of tourism activities, the number of police, the number of divorces, the level of education, the level of substance abuse, the impact of factors on crime rates, as well as the crime scene at the city level, the ground relations of crime, should be judged by the contributions and participation of all political party groups in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is the basis for the solution of national issues. One of the main reasons for violence and law enforcement problems in major cities should not be forgotten that AKP authorities have an involuntary and submissive stance against terrorism, as well as the public's advertising policies, and the government's policy of compromise. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution, we submit a general discussion on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President The first arrangement in our country that allowed foreigners to gain residence was by the 22/12/1934 deed code of deeds no.2644, which opened the way for foreigners to own up to 30 hectares of land at the most. The Laws, issued in 1984 and 1986 and lifted the principle of reciprocity in immovability, were annulled by the Constitutional Court's relevant decisions, on grounds that the principle of violation of the Constitution and reciprocity undermined international law. After a long period of time, no changes have been made, but with the Justice and Development Party ruling alone following the 2002 elections, similar regulations were immediately brought back to the public's agenda and the 36th article, with the maximum 30 hectares of the Tapu Law, was removed from carrying out in Turkey by the laws 4875 and 4916 of foreign investors in 2003. Such provisions were cancelled by the Constitutional Court in 2005 for similar reasons. Similar attempts by AKP governments after 2005 have been made, but the Constitutional Court has not been inoculated. The Law, dated 3 July 2008, and is allowed to acquire immovable ownership of companies with legal identity, up to 10 per cent of the total area remaining within the scope of the implementation zoning plan and position zoning plan in the central districts and districts of foreign nationals. Following this 2008 arrangement, very serious portable sales have been made in our country's coastal areas, especially in the tourist zones, and at the end of these sales, a significant portion of our country has been taken over by foreign real and corporate individuals. About 80 per cent of the non-moving sales during the AKP administrations took place after this arrangement, while the remaining 20 per cent are from earlier years. Due to poor economic governances conducted by AKP governments, the latest Law of 3/5/2012, dated 6302, despite serious opposition parties' objections, continued to lift restrictions on the sale of the land to foreigners in order to close the growing current deficit year after year. With this Law, it is possible for foreign companies to obtain unlimited reciprocity by altering certain articles of the deed law, by removing the limits of ownership with the principle of reciprocity or for the purpose of the workplace, and by order of the Council of Ministers, up to 60 hectares of foreign companies. After this arrangement, it is not yet known how much foreign real or corporate individuals have bought in our country and how much revenue has been made from these sales. These figures must be shared with the Supreme Assembly and the public to find out what the AKP governments have done to the country. It must be known what new dangers may be when these regulations are judged along with the provisions in the bill, which put our country in danger and put it on the agenda of parliament and envisioning the establishment of so-called new major cities. For reasons revealed above, it is necessary for the MHP Group to open a "General Talk" on "movable sales of foreign real and corporate persons in our country." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4+4+4 education system, in accordance with the additional grounds for discussing the issues it has created, reviewing the time and measures that need to be taken, and in accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution, we submit a General Interview on behalf of the National Party of Action. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President There is a close relationship between the development of a country and the human upbringing. Education is a long-term business and requires institutionalisation, continuity and consistency. During the three ministers in the ten-year AKP's administration, we also perform ▪ The education system, under the name Reform, has been overturned many times. The AKP has converted its ruling education system into the "koy-lift" system. The 4+4+4 system, which finally comes into play, is the result of continuing the same mentality. The problems and solutions of the 4+4+4 system have not been focused on. Adeta (Kervan) is fucked on the road. It is carried out by reason. The system of education has been implemented without sufficient preparation and infrastructure, ignoring the opinions of educational unions, without computing the problems that the system will bring out. In education, the Ministry of Education predicted this structural transformation programme, forcing human resources to comply. This mechanical system that isn't human-oriented is in training; - Teachers, - Directors and co-workers, - Parents, - Physics structure, It has caused irreparable negativity and problems in its direction. The problems that the 4+4+4 system raises in terms of teachers 1) The system has caused the biggest damage to the class teachers. With the five-year education of the class teachers reduced to four years of primary school education, 20 per cent of the current teachers became more norm staff. The ministry has announced that the 29,103 class teacher is a norm surplus. The Ministry of National Education has moved to the graduation area, the side area, or the mental-impaired classroom teaching area, or the technology-design area, to address the teacher problems that it has made into a norm extra staff. Thus, 18,000 teachers have been assigned to this area, and 5,000 teachers without side space, as well as technology-designs teachers. 20,000 teachers have changed majors. A total of 42,000 teachers have changed areas. 2) The National Ministry of Education was targeted at the 2010-2014 Strategic Plan, when the schooling rate was increased from 33 per cent to 70 per cent in preschool education. Pre-school education was initiated in 2013 in order to make it mandatory in all cities. With the new system, the application was abandoned, so that pre-school teachers could become victims of employment. 3) 4+4+4 is one of the victims of the educational system. They were assigned to secondary schools from institutions where they were assigned because of the decline of norms in institutions, as primary schools where the major teachers became secondary schools. This caused the victims of major teachers and their established order to break down. 4) According to Norm's staff regulations, each was given a guidance counselor norm -- for 250 and higher students -- in primary education institutions. With the new system transforming schools and training in the same building -- in primary schools and secondary schools -- the staff of counselors has been transferred to secondary schools. The school's guidance counselor norm has previously been taken as a measure of 250 for the eighth grade, while the new system requires that only the number of students be 250 in the upper secondary school part. Although there are more than 250 students in school, the teacher's norm is given only as a measure of elementary school or secondary school students. In this case, guidance counselor norm surplus emerges. The problems the system presents in terms of administrators and co-workers: 1) Some elementary schools have been converted into elementary schools or secondary schools. As the number of students declined during this transformation, both the vice principal and vice principal have fallen from norms. 2) Because of the new system, many of the students have been associated with schools and had to face transportation challenges in remote areas of residence, with the restructuring of schools as a primary and secondary school. Problems that arise from lack of physical structure: 1) With the implementation of the 4+4+4 system, many schools have been forced to double-educate due to physical inadequacies. 2) The age of starting school with the new system has been reduced to 60-66 months. As the number of students enrolled in the school increased, the physical capacity could not be increased at the same rate. This has led to crowded classrooms. The opening of a general discussion in the face of huge problems created by the 4+4+4 educational system will contribute greatly to the solution of problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Taner, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, has a motion for a geneorization on Star. Now, since the motion for the genome I'm going to read is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the report magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz is required and required to open the geneor in accordance with Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Constitution. Bulent Kuşoğlu Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Doğan Gündak Haluk Eyidoğan Engin Özkoç Ali İhsan İktuk Gürkut Acar Ali Riza Özturk Ayşe Nedret Akova Ihsan Kalkavan Musa Pine Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ensar Öğün Sinan Aygün Malik Ecder Özdemir Melda Onur Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Muharrem Ilş The disaster, which resulted in the deaths of 301 people in Soma on May 13, 2014, has also brought up many problematic issues, as well as errors, negligence, irregularities and corruption of Turkey's Coal Corporations General Directorate and Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources officials. There are two companies in the Soma Mine site where the disaster took place that TKI General Directorate had a contract. These are the reödovans and the Imbat A.Ş. and Soma A. S's. Imbat Inc. And Soma Inc. agreements with each other initially were in accordance with legislation, without problems, but by 2013, each company was given greater jobs than previous jobs without tenders and without the decision of the Governing Body. With these transactions that seem intentional, the amount drawn to each of the two companies is a minimum of $4 billion. This is illegal and ultimately public-damaged operations carried out by the Turkish Coal Management General Directorate; it is responsible for protecting certain individuals; it is as well as for concerned bureaucrats, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. In fact, when presented to his own knowledge months ago, he showed that he was in charge of first degree, especially in his attitude, which covered the firms and the relevant bureaucrats, that the transactions were carried out within his own consent. A reasonable and minimal calculation of the work done by the TKI General Directorate without tender and without the Governing Body's decision suggests that the sum of $1.6 billion in Soma AS is exceeded by $2.5 billion in terms of a ten-year extension, while the amount of 13 years in the Imbat Agency is estimated at $2.5 billion. While he should know very well as an experienced Minister of Energy and Resources, when such a situation arises and is warned, it is clear that the role of Tİ General Directorate officials and firms take the role of a patron is abuse of the mission. Minister Star is the head of such corruption and corruption. As it turns out from the media scan, he has special remarks, sympathy and support for these two firms, and the minister has not used his authority positively, he has abused it. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz is required and required to be opened in accordance with Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be on the agenda will later be determined by the Council of Counsellor's recommendation. Members of parliament, the Commission on the Equality of Women's Opportunities and Human Rights Review also has a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. On Monday (January 19th 2015), the 18th day of the non-political party group MPs who wanted to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to France to respond to the invitation of French National Assembly President Claude Bartolone, under the 6th amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek and his delegation will visit the Czech Republic from 25 January to 27 January 2015 to attend an international conference in Prague, and will be submitted to the adoption of the General Assembly under Article 33620 of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to vote for you. On Tuesday (13/01/2015), the Council of Counsellors' proposals at its meeting were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval of the following proposals. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Nationalist Movement Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group This section of the agenda's legislation, number 675, 672, 676, 565, 387 and 335 in the section of "Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," shall be taken into the rankings of 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, and shall be ranked according to the order of other tasks. On Wednesday (January 14, 2015), it was suggested that verbal questions would not be discussed, and that the draft laws of 675 and 672 would be discussed as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and that its sections would be as follows. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My main law proposal (2/1601) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Under Article 37 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly agenda. The bidder is Mr. Hope Oran of Istanbul, please come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0033par0297	Mr. President, I salute the High Council. I also honor the late Rauf Denktas. Today, I want to bring up a shame of democracy. Metin Lokumcu died during the previous Prime Minister's Hopa rally in 2011; the cause of death was pepper gas. Teaan Birben, Yalova, also died from the pepper spray that the police sprayed; the cause of death was pepper spray. Mehmet Stif, who died in the Gezi protests, died of pyre root cancer with pepper spray, which the police had sprayed directly into his mouth from 40 meters in Mersin. Members of parliament, 2006-2014, 8 young people died of pepper spray, 146 young people were injured. According to the Turkish Medical Association, only 60 (60,8,000 people) were injured during the Travel Park actions, with a total 104 head trauma, 11 people lost their eyes, 8 people lost their lives because of pepper gas -- one more time, because of pepper gas -- lost their lives. There were 150,000 pepper spray used in the Travel Park protests. It's such a big number that when you look at it, the law enforcement authorities had to finish up their stockpile that year and re-supply from covered funds. Pepper spray has a lot of negatives. These are what we know, they burn in the eyes, they make living, they make temporary blindness, they have a rash in the skin, cough, shortness of breath. A lot of pepper spray has negative effects, and the person is down for about 30 minutes, 40 minutes. When we look from a different dimension, between 2002 and 2012, in ten years, 600 tons of pepper gas was imported to Turkey; 21.5 million dollars paid, more or less ten years. I'd like to get your attention here. This year alone, the tender for 2015 -- the import site is Korea -- is $25 million. So the one taken in almost the last 12 years, almost ten or so, was planned and tendered in 2015. Travel Park activities -- I just told you -- are scheduled to use 150,000 pepper sprays this year, while 1,900,000 are being used. Now, when you compare it to a decade like this, what's planned is that more violence hurts more people. Last weekend, the Turkish Medical Association conducted a study. They have a 150-page report. I read the report. And at the end of the report, in the conclusion declaration, they demand and propose that the pepper spray be banned. Because when you look at all the death and injuries, the results are dire. So there are some negatives that we know I just said, but there are also consequences that lead to death, cardiac arrest, heart attack, cancer. The world forbids it now. Look, an activist died in France. From November, pepper gas was banned in France. There are judicial decisions, there are European Court of Human Rights decisions, there are 56th amendments to our Constitution, there are many issues. I'm guessing that valuable lawmakers think that our measure of democracy should be inversely proportional to TOMA and pepper gas capsules in a country. There are doctors among you, pharmacists, oaths you made in the House, Hippocratic oaths. So, I offer, despite the fact that this offer has been spent a year and a half -- of course, the fire burned where it fell, the dead died, what happened, but -- to this disgrace of democracy, I give you respect that the Turkish Grand National Assembly must end it.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0034par0308	Thank you. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0035par0312	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with respect and love. Istanbul MP Hope Oran has made a statement on our friend's proposal for the law. In fact, he shared important evaluations in this House. Of course we're listening, but we're ignoring all of this. As a person who's been most exposed to this gas, I express it from this stand, and before that... And I'm not thrilled, Mr. President. I'm not excited, so don't worry. Think of a country -- the police commissioner's official website -- he's tendering chemical waste, and he says: "This is how much gas I need. They've come to the gas. They've come to the gas. And it turns out that the effects of this gas in many of the other acts, in many of the deadly events, have been given in the Trips that were actually done today. These are also scientifically proven. And also, since the number of the wounded has once again appeared scientifically and has just been expressed, I'm not going to have you again in numbers, but we've asked you specifically about this issue of spending by the police department. A proprietary substance was placed in the water of TOMA, which threatened human life, and we have repeatedly expressed that those exposed to this substance had serious damage to their body, and we have asked for answers about it. We don't have the answers for that. Now, more importantly, my dear friends have also been accepted by the safety of the FN-303 weapon, which was banned in Europe during the travel actions, which had a deadly impact on bismuth capsules. So these are actually lethal weapons materials. Now, this has become very common. Look, the organizations who want to use their most basic rights, when they come up with their basic demands, and when they do, they immediately apply them as pressure to destroy them with gas, pressure, and water, as soon as possible. I went through this last week. So 3-4 major actions have been attempted, Turkey's most important architectural engineer's room wanted to make a reaction to a law proposal about them as a press release last week, but it was just gas-soaked Kızılay Square. Only they don't get bored with it; it's sprayed on the people of Turkey, which affects all citizens and citizens. So, friends, it's not human to defend it. So it's not human, my dear friends, to defend a gas that will lead to human death. The second thing is, it's still not right to defend this gas that's causing them to be injured because of this gas injury, still multiplying the tenders, stacking tons of gas. There's only one reason: it's a project to silence those who make their democratic responses, that's the essence of this project. In fact, what the state needs to do is not be attacked by our citizens, who are reacting democratically, who need to avoid that attack, but the opposite is that it should protect the citizens, and they get gasdated, clubbed, beaten. Therefore, this is a law proposal for the solution to the problem. I wish everyone would consider this bill once again. You know, there's a saying that's been expressed over and over again, and it's translated into these slogans, so let's not bother with slogans that say "squeez." We say, "Don't worry about it." Or let's take measures to make it happen. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0036par0323	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0037par0325	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit02spe0036par0326	All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0036par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Hope Oran, MP of İstanbul, was unable to reach a sufficient number of decisions in the vote of the motion to take the motion of Law Proposal 2/1601 directly into the agenda according to Article 37 of the Interior Charter. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Van MP Kemal Aktaş has been nominated for 1 membership in the People's Democratic Party Group, which has been divorced in the Human Rights Review Commission, and I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. The parliamentary research commission, established to investigate the reasons for the violence against the woman, will be elected as a member of the parliamentary research commission, established to determine the measures needed to be taken. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates shown for their membership and put them to your votes. The Council's Commission for Assembly Research for Candidates for the Causes of Women Violence Needed to Be Checked out [[10/124, 226, 320, 321, 336, 601, 637, 958, 105, 1127, 1128, 1126, 1136, 1135, 1132, 1130, 1129, 1134, 1138, 1139, 1140, 1141, 1142, 1144, 1143, 1145, 1147, 1146 and 1148, 114836, 1135, 1133, 1132, 1130, 1129, 1134, 1138, 1139, 1140, 1141, 1141, 1143, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1146, 1147, 1147, 1146, 1148, 1148, 1148, 1148, 1148, 1148, 1133, 1129, 1134, 1134, 1134, 1134, 1134, 1134, 1141, 1141, 1142, 1141, 1141, 1142, 1143, 1143, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147, 1147...]] [[10]] [[4]] [[2]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, it is 18 p.m. on Tuesday (January 13, 2015) of the members of the Parliament's research commission. I'd like to ask them to meet in the Assembly Hall of Council Research and Investigation Commissions on Main Building 1, and to hold the presidential, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk's election. The commission's meeting day and time has also been declared on the plasma screen. The parliamentary research commission, established to investigate the problems of seasonal agricultural workers and determine the measures needed to be taken, will be elected as a member. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates shown for their membership and put them to your votes. Established Parliamentary Research Commission's Memberships Candidate List for Search for the Problems of Seasonal Agricultural Workers [[10/34, 55, 679, 801, 904, 1091, 1094, 1095, 1096, 1097, 1098, 1099, 1100, 1101, 1102, 1104, 1105, 1106 and 1107]] [[10]] Mehmet S. The Hamza boys are in Diyarbakir [[4]] [[2]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, it is 18 p.m. on Tuesday (January 13, 2015) of the members of the Parliament's research commission. I'd like to ask them to meet at the Assembly Hall on 2nd Floor 507, where they'll be elected president, vice president, spokesman and clerk. The commission's meeting day and time has also been declared on the plasma screen. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the fourth place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The Law on the Order of Retail Trade, the Law Bill on Retail Trade, and İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrkulu; Retail Trade, Shopping Centres and Large Stores; Law on the Order of Trade and Art Services; Law on the Order of Business and Art Services; Izmir MP Mehmet Ali Susam; Retail Trade and Trade and Arts Services; Law on the Order of Trade and Art Services; Law on Trade and Trade in Perakenence; Law on the Order of Trade and Trade and Arts Services; Law on the Orders of İstanbul Celç; The Order of Law on Trade and Orders of Law on Trade and Orders of Trades of Trade, Mustafa Daşar, and Akar; Aşatıçıçıçı, Mesınıçıçıçıçı, Mehmet Ali Sesıçıçıçı, Mehmet Ali Sesamıçıç, Mehmet Sesıç, and Akarıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı, Şarı, Akarıçıçıçı, Akarı, Akarı, Şarıçıçı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı, Akarıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı, Akarı, Akarıçıçıçıçı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarıçı, Akarı, Akarı, Akarıçıçıçı, Akarıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı The Commission and the Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 675 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesam, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0038par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to pay my respects to our esteemed citizens and tradesmen who are watching us discuss this bill today. As a lawmaker who's been struggling for many years to get the law proposal to organize the retail market, I care very much that a legal arrangement should be held and discussed in this Parliament. Because this arrangement is important in two ways: the retail market is an important law not only that sells goods, but that deals very closely with all the parts of the country that produce it. In this sense, the retail market includes a very important number of economic sizes in the country as a turnover, volume. It is very important that this market operates correctly, that the players in this market be in fair competition, that legal and legal ground be established, so that there is a legal arrangement in the market for both consumers and producers and service sectors that trade. Here's the basic point of view... we have friends who offer a lot of money to get this law here, and the government's offer, and we've talked about it in the Commission. It's my duty here to tell you that as the point of origin, it's good for this law to come here as a frame, it's a need, it's a need, it's a need, we've been missing it for a long time. A frame like this is good when the law comes here. But to fill this frame correctly, to eliminate unfair competition, to destroy it for years, to make it possible for small businesses, grocery stores, butchers, tailors, all of them to solve their problems, to eliminate an environment where the larger capital crushes the smaller one, and the unfair competition can be done in a fair and just environment. However, that is not in the government's design. This bill, the government's plan for reconciliation, we've been able to get the proposals and ideas of everyone, but that's how much we've been able to reconcile them. This bill, he says, is a bill in which those who are stronger than the current market players continue to maintain the state of those who are weak and ignore the issue of getting new rights. So, how should this bill be? This bill must be in accordance with the Constitution. What does Article 173 of the Constitution say? The state protects, protects, protects, and protects the tradesman and the artist. While the state is making legal arrangements, the basic logic, the small ones, the tradesman and the artist, must also make a positive discrimination against the protection and protection of the SMEs. This is the order of Article 173 of the Constitution, and this should be the point of view. My proposal and the Republican People's Party's work on the Commission is a work for this. At the heart of this work, we tried to make efforts to ensure that regulations for the protection of small businesses that have been eliminated and crushed and destroyed were involved in this law. My dear friends, in this law, it is a fact that politics and perception have been taken away from the essence of this law. They call it the AVM Act, which is to make arrangements for the malls. Yes, this law also includes malls, but the scope of this law is broader, including everyone who is in the retail sector outside the AVM. Let me emphasize something here: what does retail mean, let's open it up. It's the retail market where all the products sold in one country are sold to the shelf, to the window, to the counter, and what's more important is that as the point of the world, a product can go out on the market, it can go on the shelf, it can be in the window, and that product can be met with the customer. There is such a risk and danger in Turkey today that a limited number of vendors are increasingly in the hands of the owner of the market, the group that assigns the product to the shelf in the market is this limited number. Who's in the retail market here? One, there are some vendors in the malls. Two, there are retail marketers called local chains. Three, there are those stores we call discount shop. Four, we have a tradesman, artist, grocery store defined as traditional. Five, however, there are small businesses on the streets, tradesmen, artists. Think of all this in retail markets. So, at what rate do these players in this market dominate the market? The players who are increasingly dominant in this market are the malls and what we call the discount store, and the line that's gone is the grocery store, the butcher, our shop in the traditional market called the grocery store, and our local chain, which we call the local chain, started at the grocery store and started at 5, 10, 20 stores and sold local retail stores. The balance is increasingly in the favor of those who work for the mall and open chain stores. When you look at the point where the numbers are coming from, seriously, five store groups are the dominant of the big supermarket chain that opens up in the market. SHOP, BIM, UCZ, A101 and so on have reached 67 per cent of the total number of stores. In this sense, they've come to a point where they've largely determined which product the industrialist is going to smuggle into the market. My dear friends, in the industrial dimension of this business, I just said that if a product doesn't come on the shelf, it doesn't matter. Today, many of our industrialists are either breaking into the store's windows or making their own brand products by making concessions to the purchase groups of these large stores or at large costs, or by forcing these industrialists to do or finishing their industrial identities. I'll give you an example: you can be a major industrialist in a month if you have a good relationship with a big shopping chain with a chain store. Because a chain with 5,000 stores, go make me juices. When he says, you bring a warehouse, machines, in three days you can be an industrialist there. In the same way, you can destroy an existing industrialist with unfair competition. I mean, the size of this job isn't just the destruction of groceries, it's not just the destruction of local chains. The size of this job is going to be difficult for the industry to find the market it can sell and the space it can sell so it can put the product on the shelf. I'd like to point out that there are some market players who are having trouble understanding this, and there are some players who insist on not understanding it. Dear friends, that's why I'd like to point out that he has a very close relationship with the industrialist in one dimension of this law. So, what should this law do? This law should regulate the retail market. In editing, unfair competition should eliminate unfair competition over the persecution of minors. What can he do with it? He can make arrangements for this law. One: opening a business in this city must be done by a board. This must be the first way. So, if a new AVM is to be opened, if a new chain is to be created, then a structure of vocational rooms, municipalities, provinces and consumer companies should be established to assess the potential of the new store, so that the chain stores don't have to go in between the streets and be at the point of destruction of the grocery store. It should be the committee that decides to open a new store, to monitor the city's dynamics, to decide whether to open it in that area, to open a new store for both its geographical system and sociological grounds. In this, the trade room, the business room, the stock market, local governments, consumer associations and the Ministry is also at the point of objective decision-making. How's it going today? Today, the mall can be opened wherever it wants, with money and power. For example, it was recently published in the Hurriyet newspaper, and they were allowed to open a mall on the historical site in Bursa Mudanya, and eventually returned from the court. Look, I mean, honestly, their powers, their money, they're so powerful in the process of taking decisions and making decisions that they could do that. Here it is: there is no AVM above the ancient city. It means, dear friends, that there must be a balancing board in front of this power, which should be issued in this way. Secondly, the stores I've just mentioned, which I've just mentioned, can open shop on every street very seriously. They're not about profit, they're doing a study on taking over the market. It doesn't matter how many square feet he makes, whether he makes money or not. They're opening up stores on unremarkable streets with so much rent that they're going with the stores they're opening with their square meter and share in the market, they're negotiating with international funds, and they're financing it, and they're going into the store. Profits, last Sunday. It's easy to get the profit after you take over that market, easy to get the price, easy to get the price, easy to get the market, as long as you have the market. You do it at the same price that you charge when you buy the goods from the industrialist, and by the numbers that you put on the prices, you get it with profit. In that sense, he has reached a serious point in co-operation with the funds. Sometimes it comes to a point where he can go into stores without looking at the money in any way, at the point of buying the stores. Second: It is a very common understanding in the sense of modern retail in the world that businesses are closed for at least one day. This is done by municipalities, mostly by businesses that are not in the mall. Many of our businesses are closing on Sundays, but on Sundays, the malls have become our people's interests. Turkey is sleeping with mall culture, and this mall culture is increasingly the key to our social life. Dear friends, I have studied many countries in the world. In many of these countries, closing one day is on the eve of religious days and official holidays, and closing on that day is an important point in many developed countries in the world. Unfortunately, in our country, it's an environment where adults can annoy little people as much as they can, except for eight hours of constant sleep. Beyond that, let's get to the other thing. We sell cheap. We are resuming the market at a cheaper price. The department store, which says, "It doesn't actually sell cheaply." The department store does this: I have sovereignty in the market, I have a store count, I have a square meter; you're going to give me this product at this price. For example, a single-dollar product is given to the department store for 75 cents, while our small businesses are given to $1. When they sell what they get for 75 cents, they make a 50% profit. Our grocery store makes 10 percent profit when it sells for $1.10. The reason why there's such a big price difference in between is because they have the power to buy, to open stores wherever they want; to take the concession they want from the industrialist and destroy the grocery store. So, I'm going to tell you one by one on the other articles of this law, but I want to stress that the Constitution dictates that in the essence of this law, the government did not put in place a logic that protects the trade, the artist, the grocery store, the market, the butcher, and our small businesses. For show... I'll give you five percent of the AVM, and I'll protect the lost arts with a thousand to one thousand, two thousand to two. The bottom line is, you're going to set the rules of opening a business here, and one day you're going to make sure that the malls are closed. In addition, you will support them in buying -- in terms of competition with adults -- with legal regulations, with regulations in trade law, and you will give them positive discrimination in order for minors to develop in the market. So when a tradesman opens his business, he should be able to continue his work for five years without taxes and stand on his feet, providing the environment where the insurance of the workers he employs can be afforded by the government, and in competing with the AVM, you should provide parking support for small businesses in the market that can provide additional support for small businesses. All this proves is that it's not in the law. In the same way, we have to limit them knowing that the number of cheap, discount stores has reached an adequate point. That's the only way this law can function. Although I agree with the general, its contents are empty, I would like to share with you our views and suggestions in the following articles. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0039par0121	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0040par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the bill of law on the Order of retail trade. I salute you all. As far as I can see, the AKP Group has taken the advice of the government's spokesman, Mr. Bkent Arinc, and has taken an early vacation. Last week, you know, he made a statement, advised everyone to give him some time, and I'll take my time. That's the advice I give everyone. Get some rest. He said. It's extremely important, we're talking about a bill that underlines the government's insistence of importance, but we have to force the AK PARTY MPs to the Assembly General Assembly, asking them to check in from time to time. But it's a waste of effort, and then five minutes later, we have to talk about orange leather seats again. Now, basically, you misunderstand Mr. Bulent Arinc. He told you to go on vacation. He won't go. That's what he meant in his speeches, so there was something in that line. With this bill, we're going to have a proposal to the government, and we're going to ask the entire tradesman to recommend a Bulent Arinc marketing profile. He has a very good tongue, he tells very well, he sells very well. That's the problem with retailers and small tradesmen. We think he can do that in his next life, in his vacation life. He would have served the citizen with a highly beneficial service if he had done so, if he had taken the responsibility. Otherwise, I'm going on vacation. You won't find another person who says, "I'm going on vacation." You won't find another person who throws all the stones in the neighbor's window. He packs up the people's bags and leaves; Mr. Bulent Arinc is busy throwing away all the stones that are after him, throwing away his stones, throwing stones at the neighbor's windows. There's no need. So we advise him, you're tired, yes, you've done politics for forty years. We've followed you from 1995 to today, and you've been a member of parliament for five semesters. You've got your load, you're tired, you're tired, yes, we recommend vacations, he needs a vacation. There's no point in saying, "I'm here." We're telling you clearly, the HDP has closed its doors and HDP has no work for it. It's his business whether he'll come or not, whether he'll go somewhere else or not, but it's clear to him that we know this marketing method and we say, "We don't have it," and we want it to be known to him, too. I'll get to the point, we care about this bill, and I'll make evaluations on it, but I'd like to bring one more thing to your attention. Look, right now, Ağrı, Bingol, Mush, Kars, Ardahan, Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, Mardin, Black Sea, some villages, cities... Villages and counties and provinces have no contact, no contact. Because of the snowfall, people have lost touch with each other. Over the course of this week, we have seen images of citizens carrying their patients to the hospital with great zeal over the sleigh in Bolu. This is where we saw the father image last year carrying his baby's lifeless body in his saddlebag. Let's hope we don't see the same footage again, but there's danger, people are getting their patients through the sleds to the hospitals. Now, don't say that it snowed a lot. It's a hell of a cold this year. One can be helpless from time to time in the face of natural events. None of you can come out here and say so. That's never the case. Yeah, it snows, it snows every year. There's a reason this disaster happened this year, because you passed a law here last year, what was it? Privatisation of highways. You passed the law on the privatisation of highway maintenance and repairs here last year, along with the bag of law. With that bag of legislation, you transferred the roads clean, maintenance and repairs to private. The private doesn't have a problem with road cleaning when it doesn't snow, but when it does, it doesn't go and clean the road. Are you aware of that? Do you know that the companies who take these tenders, the road-cleaning tenders, don't clean up the roads by making up different reasons? Let me give you some examples from Hakkari. We've just met in the past week. He's standing in a car park on the highways, his worker is standing next to his cars in the car park, but he can't go and clean the road because he's not in charge, so if he goes and cleans the road, he's out of commission. No highway chief is sending his own staff, his own vehicle because the mission was taken from him. Who's gonna do it? The contractor's gonna build it, and the contractor's not gonna build it. That's why the roads are closed. That's why there's so much news being broadcast about the road being closed this year. I'm bringing it up here because we'd like you to take precautions on this matter from the council bench. In the same way, the power outages are on the rise all over Turkey, especially in rural areas. One more reason, privatisation. Since you've transferred the maintenance and the collection to private, they'll lose money, if they go and do business, they'll have to spend money; they don't do it, the citizen's in the dark. There's a situation like this in a lot of places. The government needs to deal with these problems immediately, to come up with solutions. When we made these laws here, we challenged them, predicted that these setbacks might arise, we put them in front of you, but you didn't, so at least follow the laws you passed, follow the contractor you gave the contract to, see if he's doing his job or not. Here, villages in the dark, roads closed, what are you going to do? We're telling you to dig, take your shovel, not throw snow, follow it, run the state's own mechanisms. This law has a 15-year-old adventure. He referred to the speaker before me, who came to the agenda during the 57th Government, not in the days of 58, 59, 60, 61, 61, but now in the Parliamentary General Assembly during the 62st Government, we are discussing this issue. In fact, some representatives of past-term EC PARTY governments, such as Ali Coshkun, have even apologized for failing to pass this law, and other ministers have evaluations on it. You brought it, and 15 years later, it was able to land at the General Assembly, and it came off the shelf, and it came to the General Assembly. So, what's in it? It's all a cover-up. All the important issues have been left to the Council of Ministers' regulations, or rather, to the secondary law that the Ministry will draft, and to the regulation. Now, when we're discussing the AVM law, while we're discussing the retail law, can we move the AVMs out of the city, as in the entire civilized world? No, you can't carry it according to this law. Will you make such a provision in the regulations? There's no way. Will you make an estimate of the duration, the duration of the work? It's not in the law. However, the working conditions and working times in the malls are disastrous. What's worse, you've turned malls into a new culture of life for society. You put people in an open prison with mall applications. It went on then, to deliver your key, to deliver your house, to watch over our children. The time of the grocery store that you would say is over, you have finished, there is no culture. With mall applications, this culture was destroyed, and people were imprisoned in the malls. There was a reason why this bill was being debated so much, that it was said that we would both provide justice in retail trade and protect our social tissue a little bit. The tomatoes in the Diyarbakir Hevsel Gardens are unable to enter grocery stores within the malls because the malls are buying with the central shopping system. The grapes there do not go to the grape mall in Cushus, but are sold on the street counter; it is because of the central purchase system in the malls. Are you bringing any precautions? Will the grape maker of the garden take the grape that he produces and give it to the mall, and give it to the market? No, he won't. He can't do it with this law, he couldn't do it before. So, how do you protect the manufacturer? In this law, there is a council, a Council of Retailers. There's no telling who the council is, who it's going to be, who it's going to be, who it's going to be, who it's going to be, who it's going to be. Look -- not the government, not the government -- the Minister, whoever the Ministry grants will be on that council. Look, we're suggesting that as of the beginning, maybe you don't need it for 20 years later, but once you have a council like this today, you need to clear the frame, you need to set a clear frame. You may not be able to name who's going to be on this council, but you need to frame who's going to be on it. Look, architects and engineers should be on this council, city planners should be on this council. We're offering, and I'll explain. What's an architect, an engineer, doing on a council about retailers? Look, construction in our cities is all a trap for business men. Stores open under every building built in every neighborhood. Under every building, under every street without exception, under every building, the first floors or ground floors are the shops. When a store is built, one goes, "What if there is a store built here, something will be sold here too?" Look, the trick is that every citizen falls into this trap and gets hurt. So, look, when you build a mechanism like this, we say that city planners, architects, engineers need to organize a mechanism that will make sure that the architectural tissues of cities are made to respond to their needs, but you didn't set up a framework. We recommend it here, we recommend it, it stays here with what we recommend. We don't know how much was discussed, how much was discussed during the commission's work. Another point, another point: the MERSIS system is set up. If I were a tradesman, I wouldn't wish my information to be in a network like this because it's not safe, there's no mechanism to protect personal data, there's no legal arrangement, this Parliament hasn't thought of that until today. There's no legal arrangement to preserve people's personal data, commercial data, secrets. I'm asking you, how can he put citizen information, documents, in a system like this? If you were a tradesman, you wouldn't be comfortable, you'd lose sleep, you'd think, "My knowledge, my trade secrets, my documents have entered such a system, but is it safe?" Let me be clear, it's not safe under the current circumstances because there's no legal arrangement to preserve personal data, to protect it. It's been debated here for years, over and over, but there's no progress here. The arrangement of working hours, conditions, is completely abandoned to the initiative of the bureaucracy, abandoned to the governor's initiative. By this law, the governors are granted state authority, the governors are granted state governor's authority. Look, if you have any ideas, bring them; we will not say anything; we will discuss them, and we will support them. Let's argue, we won't argue, we'll argue, we'll do something good. We'll tell you. But, look, you've excluded the city's chosen ones, you've excluded the local governments, they're nowhere, they're not in the mechanism; there's only an arrangement for the city municipalities, but there's a work period and conditions that have been completely left to the governor's initiative. Not this one. A legal arrangement like this would be wrong. Oh, come, you can go to a governor's arrangement that will work with the Council of Retailers, work in co-direction, take decisions from there. The only way we can say yes is if there are local governments in it and the governor is elected by those people. If the governor is being elected to work, we say yes to that arrangement. Let people do their own thing. We don't understand why you're bringing such an arrangement, making such an arrangement. Look, I'll tell you one more problem: there will be another in Istanbul, another in Ankara, another in İzmir, another in Diyarbakır. Because, Ankara 10.00-22. 00; I arrange the working conditions between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., and he'll say, "Kayseri.09.00-21." He'll say 00, you'll go to Konya, they'll want to work a little harder, 10,00-23. He'll say 00, you'll go to Diyarbakir 10.00-00. He's going to say 00. What kind of fun would that be? Where in the world is that? Look, you're going too, it's not like that in European countries, when it's eight o'clock, the doors of shopping malls are locked, it's like this everywhere. So every city has its own unique arrangement. Oh, if you say that regional conditions also affect working conditions, it does, it does. Then you'll have to move on to regional construction. If you're moving on to regional construction -- I've just expressed -- this is not an arrangement within the administrative structure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not something you do within the administrative structure. Bring that kind of administrative structure and we'll discuss it together. So, I'm thinking that some of the things that you put in here might make sense, too. I'm putting a stop to other issues on the matter for now. Thank you. Good luck.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0041par0145	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0042par0149	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the general draft of the Law on the Order of Retail Trade, 675 rows under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. First of all, I'd like to thank the Minister once again for bringing this bill to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly, after all the setbacks, even though it does not meet the expectations of our young tradesmen and artists who have been waiting for such an arrangement over the years. In October, I reminded him again that such a bill should be brought to the agenda of the Grand Assembly immediately, and that we care about such a work, reminding him that Mr. Fihat Ergun and Mr. Hayati Yazri had promised to bring it to the agenda of the Grand Assembly. So I repeat my thanks. Although it doesn't meet expectations, we say it's important for this sector that the sector, which has been in need of such an arrangement for years, has been reassessed within certain rules. So we tried to do what we could, and we're going to continue to do it in this General Assembly phase. Dear MPs, the bill's name is too big, it's too long. Don't look at him, so even though this bill is combined with several proposals and seems to have been brought to the agenda of the General Assembly, unfortunately none of the proposals mentioned here have been received and added to any article or section of the bill, only the names of the valued lawmakers who bid are mentioned here. Other than that, the very opinion of those valued lawmakers and their proposals to protect really small tradesmen and artists are unfortunately not included in this bill. Furthermore, after the bill was submitted by the Ministry to the Parliament's agenda, some of the arrangements presented by two valued lawmakers and friends of the Justice and Development Party Group were not included, nor were they taken into account. Aside from the opinion of prominent lawmakers from opposition parties, the opinion of the ruling party, such as the AVMs, to be kept closed one day a week and several other times a day before the talks, was a full headline in the newspapers, and they had to withdraw their views on the closing of the AVMs, even on the black market headline. So, in other words, this issue has been drafted by the ministry in accordance with the demands of the AVM, and on the other hand, the wishes of small trades and artists by AKP (AKP) MPs have been quickly turned into an offer of their own, so to speak at the same time, so to speak, the public has been distracted, comforted, both sides have been tempted. But in the end, other than what companies, malls and chains say, any arrangement has not been drafted into this bill, nor have valuable ruling party MPs who have proposed the law stood behind their proposals. On the other hand, Mr. Minister and the valued representatives of relevant NGOs have shared with the commissioners his proposal that this bill was prepared with a minimum co-compromise, so without too much digging, without too much delay, to be passed over the commission, and we have proposed that the existing proposals and sector representatives be quickly handled by a subcommittee to be quick and more orderly after it has been adopted by a subcommittee for years. These proposals have been adopted, a motion to establish a subcommittee in the commission, but what happened before the motion was made, was made with the signatures of worthy MPs of the ruling party and opposition parties, and before the establishment of the subcommittee, the decision to work until the end of the morning, until the end of the full 18 hours of Commission work, without being able to change anything much, we ask the parties what has been agreed upon? No compromise. We ask the tradesman and artists, small tradesmen, medium-sized owners and representatives: Is there any substance here that pleases you? There are no representatives of the mall and the department store representatives speaking, and there are not many arrangements that make them happy. But whatever happened, in this way, the bill was brought in under the name of reconciliation, discussed, and came to the agenda of the High Assembly today, the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers, who have been expected to live their lives in trade until now, seeking a solution to the question of how can they continue their lives under the influence of the department stores, chain stores and AVM? But unfortunately, the arrangements are far from that. But at least we have a law. It's reached a point where the industry can call it. It's important to him that at least the industry, the retail trade sector, is regulated by a law. I'd like to say once again that we support the bill in this way. Dear lawmakers, the bill has not been combined with proposals. Hence, many lawmakers have worked hard on this issue, and their views, which include very important arrangements, have not been included in the bill. Small tradesmen and artists were not protected, nor were they protected. This bill is now a bill that can no longer pass the current status of chain markets or shopping malls, which are now spread to almost the smallest counties. In other words, in the cities, in the middle of the town centre, in the middle of the settlements, shopping malls, which have even been opened between the neighborhoods, for example, will continue to live in that neighborhood after that because we cannot bring a closed or open parking mandate, and therefore preserve the location of the local store, the butcher, the deli. Our proposals were not considered. At least because the existing AVMs are located in the center of the city or out of the city or in the middle of the city, it was said that we should at least set up a parking structure where citizens could be comfortable in order to continue their existence, but it didn't matter, because I believe that if we had put such an arrangement under the law, the AVMHs that were established in many cities today would have to build a new parking lot, or if they couldn't find that area, they would have to move out of the city. Thus, under pressure from the government, the government failed to carry out such an arrangement. We have to reassess it here and get it done. In the city where you're all in, it's called the mall, but it's a way of relaxing a lot of shopping malls that have become a center where citizens suffer. We couldn't do that. On the other hand, we said, of course, this is a particular day, like one day a week, on a day they want. It doesn't have to be Sunday. Because the demands of our citizens working in the malls and chain market branches, including the demands of those working staff, were to be kept closed at least once a week. In this regard, almost all of the proposals were edited. This was part of the proposal by a group of ruling party lawmakers, but whatever happened overnight, including ruling party MPs, the government ignored these regulations in this bill and the proposal, and brought a new regulation that pushed back the working hours of shopping malls, retail businesses from the present situation. This new arrangement came in the form of the governors of the provinces to decide the working hours of these centers. Today, the governors will be up to their necks in the necks of small tradesmen and artists, and now they'll be up to their necks in all businesses. Congratulations to the government and its proposed Justice and Development Party MPs. Dear lawmakers, this is unacceptable. That means a transfer of authority. The Constitution violates the relevant provisions of the law and the relevant laws. This needs to be changed immediately by the administration to the way the working hours will be arranged. In many counties today, many lawmakers are well aware of the pressure the governors have put on the tradesmen and artists, the political and commercial pressures they have made on them through their bookkeeping staff. Despite these current pressures, I believe that if you leave the governors with the authority to regulate the working hours, especially the small tradesmen and artists in the provinces of the ruling party lawmakers, one day, but when the legislature is over, they'll hold you back the day their immunity expires and ask you to account for it. We need to change this arrangement immediately and adjust it to the sector's demands. The governors can't decide what time the malls in a district or a county will open and close, and they can't decide when. What good are the shops there? How are the municipalities there, the relevant ministry representatives, going to use their powers from the law? You're taking their authority. The governors are the mayors of the AKP, and at our command, it's a very important argument to correct the tradesman we want, so let's give him that authority. Let's review this, please, and rethink these arrangements in accordance with the motions we're going to make here, and we're going to do it right. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, as some Justice and Development Party lawmakers have expressed during the Commission talks, the AVM are shopping centers in Turkey which impose wild capitalism and the destruction of our country's small trades and artists, and we agree with the motion that they should be put into order. Now we have to add here some arrangements that will allow the little tradesman and artist, who are now at the point of end, to at least survive. Of course, the bill is both fucked on the road by representatives of the federations and artists' rooms, and also by representatives of the government. With understanding, let's get this out, and then we'll fix it. We've been brought to this point with his opinion, but we'll come to this point, at least with proposals to be given in the General Assembly stage, because there may not be much chance that we'll be able to discuss it in the same way, in the same way, in the same way on the agenda of this great Parliament's proposal or in the General Assembly's agenda. So we specifically ask that our proposals be taken into consideration during these negotiations. Precious lawmakers, especially in the AVMs, arrange for small tradesmen and artists to leave a specific area or to have local products grown in the shelves in that area to be completely symbolic. Because with high rent and common use costs in these areas and shopping malls, it is not possible for a small tradesman and artist who are currently unable to stand in his own neighborhood to come and keep their property, to market and sell their products there. It's just a symbolic arrangement so they don't have too many objections to the small tradesman and the artist, and there's no point in implementing it. In any case, it is impossible for small tradesmen and artists to meet the burdens of business owners who are now selling brands in shopping malls. Therefore, the bill requires a little more stretching of the arrangements for this and lowering the rent costs. The other issue, unfortunately, is that the arrangement for the retailers' council, which was envisioned in the bill, was empty. Thus, the procedure and its fundamentals will be regulated by a regulation again means the age of law enforcement authority, and it constitutes a violation of the Constitution. Therefore, those arrangements also have to be determined by the law here. We'd like you to support our efforts to correct this with our motions again. In the same way, it is not acceptable for a new retail business to be handed over to the Council of Ministers when the criteria for opening and moving into operation should be made clear in the law. This arrangement also means the transfer of authority and constitutes a violation of the Constitution. For him, these criteria need to be established here, at least within the framework of any shopping mall that can be opened under which conditions to be opened by considering criteria such as the size of the population, the size of the settlement there, the trend of development, the number of existing shopping malls and the density of the existing malls. We can't get past this by handing it over to the Council of Ministers. In summation, the bill takes protective and supportive measures of the state, the tradesman and artist in Article 173 of our Constitution. On the contrary, shopping malls, large stores, and chain stores that have been randomly spread so far have the purpose of putting their existing positions in a legal framework. Thus, if the small and medium-scale tradesman and artist, who are having difficulty paying off his debt today and have found nearly three times as many files in the executive offices in the last ten years, it will be even more difficult if this bill is implemented, and he will not be able to expect it. I, however, wish the bill to be good for our country and for the industry, and I thank those who have done so.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0043par0167	Thank you, Mr. Light. İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer on behalf of individuals. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0044par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Bill on the Order of Retail Trade, 675 rows. I salute your high council. Dear friends, despite our warnings on the commissions, the government has read its knowledge again and submitted an empty bill based on its majority to the Parliamentary General Assembly. Despite all our warnings, it's no more than drawing a frame. As it is known, by the 2000s in our country, the transformation of the retail sector following a rapid development has also contributed to the economic, social, and environmental problems of the country, as well as the increasing number of shopping centers, large stores and chain stores. Complicated transactions that are not standardized at the opening of businesses and the period of payment, branding, and the challenges faced in unfair commercial practices are at the top of these problems. In addition, developments have brought problems of holding markets for small-scale commercial enterprises with trade and business businesses that are operating in the retail sector, which we call traditional sector. Our little tradesman had to close down his business and become a worker, work alongside the contractor, thousands of our tradesmen. Without giving up the free market and the principles of competition, consumer preferences were also involved in the basic legal proposals that we were prepared to provide for the balanced growth and development of retail businesses. However, none of this has been taken into account. There were difficulties in providing sufficient and reliable data in this sector, which was important to our country's economy. It also made it difficult to produce healthy policy for the industry. Since it was deemed necessary to create healthy, reliable, and current data for the sector, our proposal included these issues. Many other countries that organise retail sectors have taken into account basically two approaches: one of them, dear friends, is to regulate all aspects of the industry with a fundamental law. The other is to regulate different issues with different laws. Our country has chosen this second direction, it regulates different aspects with different laws. However, these regulations have made no progress in resolving the sector's problems. We have made arrangements for both organised and traditional, and many of these arrangements are not part of the bill that we are currently negotiating. The most important innovation in our proposal of the law were the proposals for the opening and transition of businesses. And here -- although it was earlier in the government's bill -- there was a proposal for an arrangement on a system and a single authority based on strategic plans to be prepared at the state level, to give licenses, to open jobs, which was not accepted. Dear friends, today, the shopping malls, which we call large businesses in Turkey, are randomly established, and these facilities are set up almost everywhere, as if they're running out of mushrooms. In our proposal, however, the places where the malls would be established should be based on strategic plans for the province. These laws, prepared by the government or by our fellow lawmakers, were stiff before they came to the Parliamentary General Assembly, and our retail sector was incontrovertible. So that's what we call the old law, so let's call it a little bit better than bad. However, I would like to thank all the friends on the commission, the Ministry officials, for drawing a frame. Dear friends, you have all seen many countries of Europe. There, the shopping malls we call the AVM have been built about 30 or 40 kilometers outside the city -- and the reason for that -- were intended to protect their own small tradesmen. In our case, all malls are built in the city's most glorious centers, and it narrows down life in those areas, as it did our little tradesman. Traffic in the mall areas is a mess and a big problem. There are so many beautiful places in Europe, why didn't you build a mall here, and you did it in some rough, inappropriate places outside the city? We have to protect our little tradesman, we have to protect our artist. That's why we're doing at least 30 or 40 kilometers outside of the city. We're getting an answer. We haven't established it so far, and the following malls must have a strategic plan, and these facilities must be set up according to this plan. I've mentioned an example I've experienced in the Commission, and I'd like to present it here in front of you. There was an open market in Maltepe, in the Maltepe region of Ankara. This market was replaced by a mall. Hundreds of tradesmen had to get out of there, and in the new mall, shops were rented at exorbitant prices. But, you see, since this is not a strategic plan, the stores here have closed down one by one, and the mall is out of business, and now it's out of business. Dear friends, our Minister said at the meeting of the Commission: "Let's not organize the opening and closing hours of the AVMs, let's not take Sundays off, because the AVMs are also a place of entertainment for the public at the same time as the shopping. Minister, why have we ever followed policies that condemn our citizens to the mall? Why didn't we do places where the public could easily exercise, travel, and have fun in the field, and we needed malls? We lock our people in the mall. I'll ask you... tomorrow, you don't leave a hole in the earthquake, you make a mall here. All the coupons you've got, you're encouraging them to go after someone and build a mall. You're a shame to waste our tradesman, our artists who live our traditional culture. Dear friends, those who think of the industry of a country must, of course, take part in the arrangements for the emergence of competition. None of the countries that killed your little tradesman have ever recovered. We'll take care of our little tradesman together. A small tradesman lays the foundation of a state. We have to improve the trade ethic and the situation where the tradesman will compete regularly. Unfortunately, we will not be able to make arrangements to improve this competition with the law we've passed. We have to think about how we do our ancestral traditions today with modern technology. Mr. Minister, the mall is no longer just a place of entertainment, and gradually our small tradesman is becoming a place to go and earn a living. The fact that our traditional arts and culture have been included in this bill is one of the positive ingredients in this arrangement, at least its quotas separated. But our tradesman has to be forced to come to life because because of the economic crisis, people are now fixing their old ones. Instead of buying new ones, they're fixing the old ones and wearing them. In final words, my fellow lawmakers, if we had been filled with our proposals and our proposals in the Commission, we could have passed a better, better law on our country and on our people, and yet we are not late, I hope we can fill in this law, and we can make this law that the Turkish people, the Turkish tradesman, are waiting for. I thank everyone for your support, for your contribution, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0045par0189	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Now, on behalf of the government, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Minister of Customs and Trade. Your time is 20 minutes, please.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0046par0193	It's ten minutes, isn't it?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0047par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. We've started negotiations on a really important bill. Our friends have also expressed that, despite being attempted for many years, it is a matter which cannot be legalized one way or another, but must be regulated, which must be adhered to by the rules. Therefore, the fact that he's come to this day, that he hasn't been legalized so far, is a flaw, but as a result, perhaps very detailed, there's no need to get too involved in the debates as to why he didn't come. Turkey is today on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly General Assembly. Hopefully, it will be legal and will continue to serve. Now, dear friends, our friends have mentioned it again. There has been a long debate in the commission's work, and after an 18-and-a-half-hour non-interrupted work marathon, the Commission talks have been held, and it has been completed. In fact, there was a trend at the point of being sent to the subcommittee, but then again, in our talks with our friends at the Commission, this commission worked like a subcommittee, and it came up with an idea that we should complete these work until the white smoke came out without a break and we didn't send it to the subcommittee. Otherwise, there was no prejudice at the point that he wasn't sent to the subcommittee. We've already worked as a subcommittee in the Commission. I've just tried to make myself clear, and I really want to thank all my friends at the Commission. The subject was discussed, discussed, and discussed in all its dimensions, in all its sizes, and in all its molecules. Our friends from the opposition had an explanation in which none of our opinions or opinions were taken into account. So, basically, maybe all the demands weren't met, but they really contributed. In fact, look, it's at your request, and in case you'd say that in the General Assembly, I didn't remember anything right now, but I did. Maybe our friends will remember. So he was really brought to this point by his opposition, by his power, and by the valuable contributions of all our friends. I've expressed it in the commission talks, and it's not ideal. So we know that. From a tradesman and an artist's perspective, we can't say it's just ideal arrangements. I mean, that's for sure. Why? Because as of now, there's a structure, there's a structure, there's a structure, there's a structure, there's roots, there's a structure.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0048par0200	Well, that's why we need to discuss why you're late. Now you've answered them, so let's not argue.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0047par0201	Of course, now, without moving this structure, without shaking this structure...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0049par0202	The foundations of this structure are rotten.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0047par0203	...we can't make the ideal arrangement without throwing it like an anklet. You all know that.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0050par0204	In our power...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0051par0205	I wish you'd done it sooner.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0047par0206	So, I mean, like I said, we can argue. In the past, this happened, this happened, this came, this went away, we can discuss it. But these arguments, what I'm trying to say, they never change the truth. So it's not very realistic to try to make a rule by ignoring them, by ignoring the structure that we have now, and it's not possible to get results. Oh, of course, our approach is to always be able to make the most in favor of the tradesman and the artist. This bill, believe me, was designed with this precision and this approach. Anyway, look, all the arrangements in this bill -- I'll underline it -- all the arrangements, all the rules, all the arrangements brought in, are in the favor of our tradesman and artist. When you look at the situation today, when you look at the system that's being implemented now, compared with it, all the arrangements brought in are in favor of the tradesman and artist. In other words, there is no arrangement in favor of retail chain stores, which operate at times as a subject of criticism against our investor, powerful, tradesman and artist, according to the owner. That's also very important. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm saying. All the regulations in this bill are in favour of the tradesman and the artist, and there is no arrangement in favor of one shopping center, the capital. So I say again, is it enough, does it meet all the demands of our tradesman and artist? It's not, no, that's what I'm saying, but I think it's safe to say that it's the most appropriate arrangement in the current circumstances. Now, dear friends, I have a ten-minute reminder of the arrangements brought in, and I will obey it, and it has just been expressed -- and before we pass, I'd like to clear up a few issues, and I'd like to share my views with you. One of them is a matter of giving the governors the hours. Now, look, I think a friend of ours -- Mr. Zozani, I don't remember exactly -- has mentioned, really, that not every county, every county, should be applied differently, apart from each other while this practice is being implemented here. So as a result, an eye that can coordinate from the top should be able to see and look at them. If that authority is to be enforced by our municipalities as it is now, that's the problem we call it. Because naturally, there is no structure in this system that can review the decisions of all municipalities -- the decisions of the working hours -- that can look at them as a whole, that can reveal the full picture; naturally, it's out of the question, not to criticize them. So... but the governors have the opportunity. What do you mean, master? He has it as a representative of the government. Therefore, they can make these decisions by considering the specific state of privateity, and by considering the implementation of the working hours in all Turkey, they can offer a standardization of that quality. The governor has that advantage. Otherwise, there's no other intention, no purpose. The real chaos can arise when it's in the municipal authorities, when it's in the municipalities. This needs to be underlined. Again, the Council of Ministers has the authority to determine the criteria for opening shopping malls. Again, it has been expressed by some of our friends, and it has been said: Why are these not regulated by law? These are fundamentally custom arrangements. ▪ True, the fact that these rules are made by the law makes it difficult to change them later when they need to be changed. The developing social, commercial life, globalized world -- urbanization -- can create new criteria, or the necessity of reviewing the existing criteria may bring up the need. In all these situations, the system, the structure, needs to be flexible. So you set the rule with the law, and when he needs to change it back with the law, of course, it's not easy to change, so it's not easy to make a new law. So... oh, it's not supposed to be that easy. So, for example, being given to a ministry or secondary legislation may also involve some problems. Given the need for change in this sense, it has the necessary flexibility at the point of implementing it, but at the same time, as a result, it is a Council of Ministers decision, not an easy decision to make. They can be judged as such an arrangement that can keep them balanced. Otherwise, the system could enter a blockage point after a period of time. Now, I've just said, the industry is growing in Turkey and in the world all the time, and it needs to be organized. So it's very important in this frame. Of course, I don't have time, I'd like to share with you a few important arrangements. So one of the things I've always said is that it's in favor of the tradesman and artist is that, once again, with this practice, our tradesman and artist can't get into the malls, they can't hold on there. Now, some friends of ours are saying, "What if you provide this opportunity, what happens if the law provides it?" The rent is expensive there, so that's not the problem, or that's not the exact way it's reflected. They want to get into the malls, they want to rent a place, but especially some shopping malls -- I'm telling you in a nail -- they don't want to be in the business and artists of their own prestige.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0052par0212	Prestigy shakes the tradesman?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0047par0213	Anyway, I mean, that's the way it is. Of course we don't, we criticize. In any case, let's say that at an unprofitable shopping mall, our shop doesn't have to use 5 percent by force. So he's going to do the comparison himself, where he's going to take the opportunity, if there's a future expectant. So it's a really important arrangement for our tradesman and artist -- about five percent, it's a serious area -- to open their way in shopping malls like this. In Turkey, shopping malls make money, much of it earns money -- rents are already set -- and then the people, the creditors, or tenants are chosen, but in them -- unfortunately -- we don't have a tradesman or an artist. So it's a very important opportunity to open this door to our shopkeeper and artist because there's trade here, there's mostly trade here. That's why you have to make use of it. Again, one of the most important arrangements brought in is that, look, one of the most important problems facing our business and artist, the small manufacturer, is not being able to identify himself, not becoming a brand. He makes small manufacturers, but he makes them in someone else's name, in the name of the investor. He uses all the positive results of his production. Let's say, today, a mall, a convenience store, a small shop, makes the manufacturer produce some goods, but at the sale point, there's only his name on the shelf, there's no manufacturer's name. There's a shop back there that produces that quality product, there's a manufacturer, but you can't see the name of it right now. I'm finishing, Mr. Engin, I'm finishing, yes. You can't see that. In this sense, the manufacturer's name, his name, his name, will be included in the appropriate punch. Can you imagine, see, the manufacturer, the small manufacturer, the tradesman, and the artist will be able to reach thousands, tens of thousands, tens of thousands of millions of people in this way, and that's where, of course, the commercial will be done... the mall is being advertised, on top of that stuff, it's got its information on it, it's got its name on it. But now, in addition, this opportunity is given to the small tradesman and artist who made it, but never showed up, never heard of, never known, never had a chance to identify himself. Can you imagine, when the chain buys from a store, the consumer will be able to see the name of the manufacturer who produced it. The manufacturer can't find such an opportunity anywhere else. So we're organizing the potential of shopping malls to reach so many people, its capacity in favor of the manufacturer. I have to finish. In advanced materials, hopefully, we'll make some statements if we have to. Yes, we had a word with Mr. Engin, so I have to cut to the chase. I wish you all the best in the bill. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0053par0221	Thank you. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun of Bolu, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0054par0224	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the regulation of retail trade. I hereby salute your high council and our dear nation. From the 2000s, retail trade, which had a considerable acceleration in our country, has grown to 58 billion liras in 2002, while at the end of 2012, TİK data shows that it has grown to about 393 billion euros, which accounts for 14 per cent of the country's economy. On the other hand, at the end of 2012, 733,000 businesses address 28 per cent of the country's population. 1.9 million of our citizens work in retail, which is 15 percent of the working population. So we can say that retail sector performance contributes to the country's economy, while also causes problems in economic, social and environmental sense. We can also say that this sector, which so far has no legal definition, needs some guiding, supportive, regulatory regulations. Some concepts of retail are first defined with this law, along with concepts such as the shopping centre, the department store, the chain store, the custom branded product, the fucking brand. Thus, the industry has gained a legal quality. Dear friends, thanks to the retail information system called PERBIS, the company of retail businesses, and all of the transactions that depend on it will be carried out through a single door, resulting in a bureaucratic sense of lightness. Our Minister has made various assessments in many ways. Yes, a bill like this, which has been on the country's agenda for a long time, is actually a bill that came out during the time of our esteemed Minister, Mr. Hayati Printer, along with a number of works organised by the Ministry, with the participation of all the layers of the sector, all its components. We can see together a structure that is different because of the processes in which all parties agree with its power, but on the other hand, of course, we have different views. I'm a Bolu MP. From my point of view as a member of the Bolu MP: What does this law mean in terms of small tradesmen and artists in Bolu? If we look at the small tradesmen and artists in Bolu, it is important for us to find tradesmen and artists who will address 5 per cent of the square meter in the shopping malls in Bolu. On the other hand, it is important that these products can be found in shopping malls, meaning crafts or traditional products in Bolu. So the cranberry tar, or spinach noodles or pine cone jam, which we're proud to call the Bolulu housewives or the organization in our region, will now be able to find its place in these chain stores. So it was important to us that local products could be found in these stores, and that our tradesmen and artists could be part of the shopping centers again. That will happen along with the law. On the other hand, there was a problem with the tradesmen and the artists working on Sundays, so they needed a license to work on Sundays, and they needed to deposit an allowance. With this law, he doesn't have to get a license to work on Sundays, holidays, any more. Therefore, when we go out to Kutay the barber, it is likely that when we go to Kutay, we will have their appreciation together with this law, because I no longer have to pay the tuition. On the other hand -- it's an important arrangement -- that our rooms will be able to register without a mastery certificate, along with this law. So one of the important issues where the rooms are in trouble in the local area will be solved along with this law. Of course, there are a lot of regulations with the law, but I thank each and every member of this law, which has been working, contributed since the long term, contributed, contributed by the Ministry, contributed by the layers of the industry, to the Confederacy of the Traders and Artists of Turkey, TOBB, TÜSIAD, MILSIAD, which has come out with the help of many institutions. I humbly salute your grand delegation, wishing that the Retailed Trade Law would be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0055par0237	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0056par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. For years, the presidents of the union of the trade rooms have been waiting for this law to be met in parliament and passed by law. In Anatolia, there is a branch of the malls in each neighborhood. There was supposed to be a specific population barrier at the branch opening, but it's not fully understood. Can you give me an explanation for that? Second, the AVMs had a parking mandate of 400 square meters, but in many places they are not applied by anyone by showing 399 square meters. Do you plan to make arrangements for them in this way? On the other hand, the AVMs currently have a branch in almost every district of Anatolia. Do you think at least one section of these malls should be shut down? Another question is, is it possible for the merchants to be closed on religious and national days or on a specific day of the week to relax? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0057par0246	Mr. Ugly...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0058par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in these malls, there is an arrangement for the store to be assigned to the shop at a certain rate. Now, will this particular number of shops be given to our shopkeepers for free? If it's not for free, isn't this shopkeeper looking forward to it? I mean, if he can afford it, why can't he? I mean, if there's any clarity on this, I'm taking advantage of it. Also, there's a mall problem on the loose right now. For many years, the malls have ended up like a bunch of runts. The tradesman's condition is extremely bad. But these malls also have employees. Will the AVM employees be entitled to those laws? Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0059par0251	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0060par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many places of business are there in our country? What's the local brand ratio or business share that's still sold in these? Do we believe we can make progress here with this arrangement? HOW does your ministry view the level of influence among the COBIs today with the malls in question? So with this arrangement, the COBIs will get a little better, so will they have a positive effect on the SMEs? And secondly, what reason do you give the governors that retail businesses have to leave their hours under the control or permission of the governors, for what reasons do we leave them to the governors? Won't that cause serious problems in the practice? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0061par0256	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0062par0257	Mr. Secretary, in your speech, you said: "These malls are going to be marketed." Yes, you put them in theoretically, but there are companies in the mall that decide what brands to be when an mall opens. I'm asking you now: How many malls does Turkey have? Take a look at the common characteristics of the businesses that have been opened in these malls, which are branded here, and when you look at them, you'll see that the company that makes this purchase, the marketing company doesn't bring in brands except for certain brands. How will the shopkeeper get in? They're going to build a tradesman with your force, and they're going to put a tradesman in there. He entered within twenty days; and if he didn't, you have already conditioned him to give to whomever the mall wants. What kind of application are you going to do that with? I want you to make that clear right there. How will the shopkeeper get in? Will he be able to pay? At the same time, in addition to paying the fee, what criteria will he open a shop there to receive a valid grade from the company that markets those stores?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0061par0259	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0063par0260	Mr. Secretary, that's the same thing, and I don't think there'll be much use here for tradesmen, five-pointers, three-tenths-of-a-kind, owners of the mall and investors. You don't have a definition and a commitment to a vocational room when you say "esnafs and artists." I think the mall owners will create their own tradesmen and artists in the form of illegal use of this material. Besides, in 20 days, I don't really think a tradesman and an artist would go and rent it there. Again, there's another dimension where you didn't put in the rent inspection. So, you're saying it's a quarter of the cost there, but it's not specified what the price is going to be determined by, and it's going to be left to the initiative of the AVM owners, the investors. So, as you say, it's been sitting on shelves for years, waiting in the Commission, and it's actually become a law that invades the House, and it's been a waste of time, it's not clear, it's not clear. I don't think that the tradesmen and local products are going to be on these shelves with these laws, and I wanted to express that, too.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0061par0261	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0064par0262	Minister, malls must be limited in this country. It is seen by this law that has not been fulfilled, which society has been waiting for for for many years. The beautiful establishment, called Bakcal, is the basic structure of Turkish culture, and has long been destroyed by melting into the beautiful institution, which allows reconciliation, living, debt, and short-term debt. In order to take precautions, it is imperative that a limit be given to the establishment of malls. What do you think about that?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0061par0263	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0065par0264	Mr. Minister, there have been some important studies that have been taking care of the Ottomans lately, but you're not doing anything about the Ottoman spirit. See, in the Ottoman spirit, we had interstates, markets, historical markets. We have the Underbelt. We have the Market of Egypt. We have the Closed Market. We have the Keeper of Antalya. How do you think that small businesses, these markets, will live in this law to maintain the legal status of the malls, and not solve the problems that arise from the foundations around here without any support or regulation? How's he gonna live under the belt? I want to learn that from you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0061par0265	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with the question of Mr. Safik. So, will Esnafa be given free shopping malls, where the shop will pay for anything? He has already entered the system, and why did such an arrangement arise? Actually, I just tried to express it in my speech. Our shopkeeper can't get in right now, so he can't get into the malls, and we all know that. As shopkeepers at the mall, in tradespeople's essence, in tradespeople's identity... a major part of the mall rejects them. Their own policies, other reasons, perhaps they don't need to elaborate on them too much, but they say that in their own way, in terms of marketing, in terms of their commercial logic, they're probably -- or at least the information that comes to us -- they say that they're taking such steps at the point that the perception doesn't break down. Of course, that's wrong, so there's no way to accept something like that. As a result, as you say, our tradesman and artist, our grocery store, the institutions that really need to be kept alive. Not just commercially, but socially, it's one of the most important pillars of our neighborhood culture. There it is again, the one-on-one relationship, the one-on-one relationship of our grocery stores and our other little business owner, the citizen, everyone in that neighborhood, the one-on-one relationship, the one-on-one relationship. Such values are not supposed to be lost, they need to be protected. Since they couldn't get in at the moment, our tradesman took such a step, it became necessary to make such an arrangement. And believe me, our tradesman wants to enter because -- and it's just been expressed -- shopping malls have become the center of attraction to trade and other activities in this sense. I mean, I'm not saying that as a criticism or a compliment, I'm just expressing it as a statement. As a result, there's a structure like this where we come from. I mean, malls have really become a place where people spend important time. Again, I mean, without a statement of support or criticism, we share it as a case. Thus, our trade, trade, and so on wants to enter shopping malls where there is intense activity and revenue and potential. In fact, I remember sometimes these kinds of demands came to us as a congressman, so if you could just do something about it, we could get into the mall. I don't know if he's come to any of our other friends as... So, that's why we're opening this door, with this law, to our shop... and 5% is a serious area. So it's going to be one-fourth of the art that's about to go missing, that needs to be protected, but it's going to be that track, whatever the average market price is, whatever the rent is, whatever the cost is, you're going to have to give it to the tradesman and the artist over that number. So I think it should be cared about, so you shouldn't underestimate this arrangement. There may be some difficulties in the application, so there may be some resistance again, and I agree with Mr. Sesame. He's trying to underline it, but you know about it, there are provisions, there are penalties, and if they don't apply, they'll be applied. It's also about time, and it needs to be announced, etcetera. So the tradesmen and the artists' rooms will protect their rights, the demand will come from there. So, it's not like we're completely vulnerable to thinking about our tradesman and artist against shopping malls, in terms of the execution of this judgment, the rule. We have the means, the power, at the point of the implementation of the punishments, both as the Ministry, as the public, and also -- you know, the penalties have been aggravated by the Commission -- there have been serious extenuation. So, of course, we'll follow its application, which is our duty, but hopefully, in the interest of our tradesman and artist, we'll have it enforced to the fullest. Mr. Light, of course, asked a difficult question: how many malls, supermarkets and domestic products... I don't have that information right now, but I'll present it as soon as possible. Mr. Light had a question about working hours. Again, I've tried to express in my speech, and I consider working hours to be the most optimal arrangement for the governors to determine, so when you give it to the municipalities, local factors are very prominent, separate about working hours in very different cities, and there may be hours and practices that have no relationship. If you take all of this to the center, which is an option that only the central government can use it, then it's the opposite of the situation, the local factors are ignored, the needs, the properties, the considerations are incomplete, and in the middle of that, the governor is the governor; the governor is both local and central. In that sense, we honestly think the governor is the best authority to make such a decision. Therefore, the rule of setting the working hours by the governors is a proper rule. Is Mr. Sesam going to be able to pay this fee again at the malls, so... before that, here, again, it just didn't come up.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0067par0276	They're renting it for 40 euros per square meter, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0277	Yeah, but let's just say this. Look, I don't know the number, but there are a lot of people who are willing to pay that number, and there are a lot of people who are willing to pay that rent, so yes, demand is more than supply, especially in some shopping malls, and that's a lot of demand, and that's all we get in everyday life. Oh, well, some shopping malls are already losing importance, so let's just say, again, for other reasons or other reasons. Then he'll leave anyway, so there's no demand. So, there's probably 5 percent of the tradespeople will be filled by the tradesman. There's no mandatory rule, such as: it's an opportunity, if it's used in terms of rights. I mean, he'd use it if there was an income mall, if he didn't have a mall he thought he didn't bring in, and if he didn't, then, of course, he wouldn't. Therefore, there will be no problems in this sense. In addition, shopping malls need to allocate the area to those who are running out of traditional arts, including a thousand to three percent of the area, for the price of one-quarter of the track. That's an important rule. Of course, there are benefits, I mean, in tax practices or other ways, but this kind of support is the most concrete support for me. So, we're always saying that they need to be protected because they're going to make money, and they're going to get a serious advantage, and the market price is going to be 1/4/4 of the price, so in a more advantageous position, the artist will turn this place into commercial opportunity, and the possibility of living will increase. So that's a very important rule. Again, Mr. Sesame, I mean no domestic brands, just foreign brands being sold or otherwise not allowed...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0068par0280	No, look, the same brands in the AVM in Erzurum are the same in Istanbul; the new brand has no chance of getting in because the marketing company markets those brands.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0281	I mean, they all have domestic brands and foreign brands, and I don't know the ratio, and I don't know if there's any work on them, but we know they all do. I mean, it also applies to white stuff, other, textiles, all with domestic brands, foreign brands.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0068par0282	It's against the law of protecting new brands, you know.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0283	Yeah. In fact, I've just tried to express it. I mean, whatever he rents to someone else, whatever price he puts on it, it's the same number. The numbers he's using are obvious, there's no way they're going to miss it. I mean, the way they hide him, the way they kidnap him from the shop, it's not very realistic. And the AVM guys -- I mean, in your own words -- there's no chance of putting their own business or their own artist there, so the rules are blocking it, so there's absolutely no such thing. I mean, both punishments and the bodies, the boards, the organizations of our tradesman and artist will, of course, follow them. So I don't think there's gonna be any trouble at that point. Mr. Cloud expressed that the grocery stores had melted and that their numbers had been reduced, that they had been losing power constantly, and that's why -- because of the trade -- the numbers of shopping malls were increasing, and he asked our opinion, our opinion on limiting shopping malls. First of all, look, there's absolutely no question that perhaps, contrary to the fact that the tradesman and the artist are gone. Today, nearly 1,600,000 tradesmen continue to operate. No reduction, that's a serious number. Well, now the numbers are falling, the numbers are going down, and it looks like the number has been reduced because of the downturn of those who are not actually active, but clearly, the fictitious ones. Or, in fact, maybe in the last ten or fifteen years, there's been no definitive scientific work on it, I'll tell you that, but there's no reduction in the number of our tradesmen. I mean, our tradesman can survive all of this. And of course, we have to say that supports and supports from governments are also important because you've known for many years... that one of the most important tools to sustain our business, to protect our strong capital, is to offer our trades affordable, affordable financial opportunities. And this has been subsidized, you know, through loans from the People's Bank to our tradesman, and more or less half of it is covered by the government. Each year, the budget is set up with $600m in funding for this purpose. It's a practice that's been going on for many years. There's been some obstructions from time to time and so on, but as of now, the bail mechanism works very effectively, our business can use cheap loans, at almost half the cost of the market, and even at the cost of financing below that, this is the biggest support. Because, as a result, when it comes to commercial activity, the means are financing, loan opportunities. If these channels can be kept open, if they can be supported from this point of view, our tradesman can maintain, resist, and continue his activity, so head to head, tooth to tooth is a struggle. Of course, we have to investigate this with regulations, which is one of the ideas that dominates here, in this law. Again, Mr. Sesame concluded that nothing had been done or been discussed enough, and asked our opinion on the matter. In fact, it's been done in the last few years -- I mean, it's been done in the past -- but it's been done in the past -- to the future generations of those souls that they carry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0069par0290	I'll give you two minutes to complete.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0291	Please.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0069par0292	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0066par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. A guild system, not just a commercial organization; beyond that, a way of life, a way of life, a whole of ethics, even in terms of social or even education, has really been branded, so in a way, it's a very important, decisive rule, and for centuries, it's a supporter, an organization, an organization, a philosophy. At the point where this is being brought to life, you know, there's serious work done in every sense, so there's work being done at the point where its essence, these rules, guide more people, so organizations are being made, supported, almost all of these cities are being done. In fact, what we're doing is basically supporting the tradesman and artist, the representatives of the Constitution today. So, we're trying to do this in order to support and make their activities easier, to ensure that, as we begin with this bill today, we're actually able to support and sustain our current tradesmen and artists, who are today's reflections. Now, the information regarding the mall has come back about the question asked by Mr. Light. As of today, the number of shopping malls in Turkey is 334. As of the end of 2015, they are expected to reach 409 (probably) with those who continue construction. They belong to 144 different companies. So it's possible to subtract from this number, maybe, that there's not a monopoly, that there's enough competition, that there's enough competition. If I miss any questions, I'll introduce them to them in writing. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0070par0298	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 13th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0071par0306	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, since it's a bill that's been waiting for over ten years, it's a success to even get here right now. I think it's very important to discuss its content, and I think it's a lot to discuss, but one of the last things I've done is this: I think it's very romantic to include a tradesman in the mall, so it doesn't make much sense. I think, you know, it's about deflection, it really doesn't fit. The guys have found a solution now, and from what I've heard from a few people, they've already figured it out, in their own way, and when they hear it, they already know what to do. It can't be solved like this, it's not supposed to be like this, it's turning into a story that's been groped, it's really romantic. What's he gonna do there, even if you tell him? Is the spice maker going to compete with a giant grocery store inside because one store is being sold at a price of one-third? No way. I really think that's very romantic. Basically, the story here is: whether the shop is really protected or not, it needs to be looked at because it needs tax incentives and ease. We, as merchants, were on the boards of the chambers of commerce, but always in the midst of Izmir, the underbelly and the merchant, the tradesman and the merchant. I mean, you can't think independently of each other here, either, because the merchant and the merchant can't think separately. I don't think that's possible. But now Turkey's had a strange experience. Now, when you say "esnaf"... in the past tense, I remember, ten to fifteen years ago, there was a man called "the grocery store," which actually had a degree of crediting. He knew who to give credit to, who lives in the building, how much he gets paid, how much I give, how much I give, how much I give, how much I don't get, he knew them. That's a loan. He was doing the same thing as the banks did today. But, it's been a strange situation since 2000. When those who wanted to sell their money in the world began to move towards developing countries, the business changed; they were looking at how we could loan the citizen on the street. Yeah, well, there's been a situation where the grocery store doesn't pay more than twice as much, so he knows he won't pay more than twice his salary, so he'll do the math, but the banks pumped the big money from the world to the citizen on the street, which is five times as much as ten times his income, and he already had a credit card. And then there was this weird culture where he went straight from the grocery store to the supermarket, to the mall. Yeah, well, there hasn't been a transitional period, it hasn't. Currently, everyone knows that 60 per cent of people with credit cards in Turkey are in serious debt. But you can't prevent this from happening like, say, in certain sectors, you can't prevent it by limiting credit-card payments, and it doesn't make much sense. That's no way to interfere with the market. It's not right, so it can't be interfered. I never defended a liberal economy, and I never defended liberalism, so I defended social democracy. We told them where to intervene, and we told them it had to be decided by the community. We're not saying let them do it, let them do it, he'll find his way, and that's not gonna happen. So let me tell you why it can't happen, because the process goes here: look, production in the industry was mechanical before, and then it turned into electronics, and now it's digital. I mean, there's not a lot of value to a production in industry, there's a lot of value to brands in the world, right, but what's important is the agriculture and the service industry. Now, if industrial production is digitizing, if it's extracting the human resource from inside, then the future will cause employment problems, it seems, because that's the way it goes all over the world right now. So, if you say let them do it, let them do it, you'll see that the problem of employment in the world will grow everywhere, and it will also grow in our country. It's not gonna work out like this, so we'll see about all this. If you leave the land of agriculture, if you don't go east, if you can't get those kids to hand over agriculture, that culture that knows how to farm, that culture that knows how to harvest, it's very difficult for us to do our job, as the wise men all over the world say, we have to say it here. Now, when I look at the markets, I see one of the big problems is that when they take out their own brands, they drown the entire manufacturer with these special brands. Go, ask him if you want, that's the truth. So, the manufacturer down there has to give the hypermarkets, like subcontractors, under their brands, and in fact, in two months, there are men who normally turn that into money in three months, at the doors of those trade markets, six months later, at the doors of the hypermarkets, waiting to get a check for the next six months, there are six months of versions of people crawling there. Oh, if you don't see that, you won't be able to see that the production is blocked any more when you look at it from here. You know, you really have to look at it from here. Is Turkey falling from production? It's going down. Why is he falling? Cari's gap is getting bigger, and as it grows bigger, it's got to look at what's worth adding. Yeah, 70 percent of our exports today depend on imports, which is the problem when you look at them. These funding transfers have stopped in the world. From now on, in fact, we have to produce it because we're going to pay this debt like an avalanche, so we have to put the weight on it. If they don't put any weight on it, it's gonna be a dead end. Now, I've heard a lot of this here: Turkey's first three things in exports of agriculture in Europe, the first two things: ministers are coming out, and so are the ministers. You say it well, but now that we've seen it recently in the investigating commission, why do you bring wheat from Dubai, trade transit? Yeah, that's a weird paradox. It's called imaginary exports, but, you know, that's what you call it, okay. But, you know, bringing wheat. Look, what I'm trying to say is that 70 percent of the exports of Turkey, if they're going to be implemented within the import regime, not including transactions, drop it down, see how long it's going to be, let's see how long it's going to be. It's got food in it, because it's all in it. So, our problem is that we can't expand the markets, that we don't weigh production, that you can only show the tradesman by reducing the bureaucracy in tax incentives and tax incentives. Today, go tell a COBI, or tell a tradesman, and tell him that I will encourage you. He doesn't already know what encouragement is in his life. He's taking some small resources from his credit co-ops, but he's not looking for the future, he's trying to save himself, so he's trying to save his day. In fact, he's not planning the next three years, five years, ten years. Adam, I wonder if I'm trying to get a loan for my next year's plan. So, he's selling his wife's bracelets right now, if he's got them, his grandfather, his father, his ancestral field. He doesn't want his kids to do it eventually, but it's dangerous here. Why is it dangerous? Look, nearly 70-80 per cent of Turkey's employment lies in tradesmen and SMEs right now, where it lies. When you sabotage this place, you can't build a solution there. In Turkey, the state withdraws itself from all productions. If the state removes it from the east, let them do it. The lesson returns to today. Somebody tell me what production is in the east today. I mean, what's being produced and where is it being exported, how much is it sent? So, if we don't see the problem from the big photo, if we don't look at the big picture, we're going to place the shop in the mall, so we're going to give them one-quarter incentive, and we're going to do this. These can't be done. The initiative is in the AVM itself, but there is a situation where the funds from abroad made up as much as the world in Turkey, they were making a lot of serious money, in six years, five years, they were converting money. From now on, it's a dead end. It's blocked from now on because we're seeing consumption, which is severely clogged. Any mall that opens up after that has the possibility of serious trouble in this country, and anyone who invests in it is likely to be in trouble. The fund's looking now, it's up to nine years, it's back in ten years. I'll get out of here, brother. I'll try to find another easy country. He calls it. I mean, that's where you look at it when you look at it. So as long as we don't see the big picture, I'm the kind of person who doesn't think it's going anywhere in a very meaningful way. But here's the thing: Turkey, when we look at it, talks about business potential, and I just don't want to index it from there. I mean, the people who own the mall or the people who put money into it and the people who put it in the stock market, they're all in a dangerous situation right now. I really don't think that the in-and-outs were based on any rules, and so far, there's been an incredibly devastating exit. You're interested in customs, I'll tell you that. Today, most of the goods sold in all Turkey, most of the goods from abroad, are actually being sold through the values written on it? I don't believe there's a very proper inspection. I'm saying all this as a man who's been through a lot. I don't believe any of this. It's a real competition problem. They're all unfairly competitive. In fact, there were reports that we had prepared in sectoral terms, in the past period, that no castles were taken. But we'd like to get these audits on their feet as soon as possible. This will support the real production of Turkey. So, let me give you a piece of advice. If asked, we'll give you the reports. I, too, hope, hope this will be the beginning, and I salute all of you, friends, in the hope that it will go to a more decent structure.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0072par0314	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0073par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, very dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the first chapter of the 675 rows of the Bill of Law we discussed, and first, I salute your grand delegation. I'm going to draw up some reviews of the bill we discussed with the tradesman and the artist. Today, we are discussing a bill that our tradesman and artist have been waiting for for for many years, but these expectations have not been fully met, and are extremely inadequate and exposed to lobbying pressures. I'd like to stress these lobbying pressures specifically because behind some criticism I'm about to say, unfortunately, the Ministry and the government are unable to resist these lobbying pressures. Both the nationalist movement party's detection and the statements of the tradesmen and artists' rooms show that there's been a growing recession in the market for a long time and there's been a recession in cash shortages, and that, wherever you go, wherever you meet with the business branch, everyone tells you about this cash problem. There's an economic policy that's been going on for 12 years. The basic basis of this policy is to build a pool inside with hot money, cool the money, transfer it out again. An economic policy that can be briefly described as a policy. As a result of these policies, from about 2002 to today, there has been a reduction in nearly half the tradesmen and artists, and we have reached about 1.5 million tradesmen. Of course, Mr. Minister should know exactly what that number was, because first of all, we established the General Directorate of Trade and Arts at the Ministry, which was then called the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, in the 57th Government and in 2000. One of the most important tasks of this administration is to keep records on these and to prepare the necessary statistics, data. But, on the other hand, when we look at some data from the Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy representing the industry, between 2005 and 2014, we see that 1,220,000 tradesmen have been expunged, among which there are more grocery stores, vendors, vendors. There are still thousands of tradesmen who can't get money or to erase their records because they're in financial trouble. I mean, as mentioned, there's no spring country in Asia, not a tradesman. That's gotta be a good point, too. Another indicator, the number of protest bonds. Look, in the first 11 months of 2014, we already have the number of bonds that have reached 918,000, and these have a $7.4 billion amount. We're seeing a very serious increase in the number of bad checks that are immediately linked to him. Gene, the same period, 2014, 11th month, has been written as 586.398 checks, which is very important, so it's clear how important it is for those who know about the issue to write checks in terms of the return of the market. It's a lot of dissipation in exchange courses, which is your monetary policy, which is a matter of direct concern to the government -- even though you're cooking it on the back of the Central Bank's neck, you can't do anything about the courses, so the other foot is the policy of interest because -- and that's a cost increase, and that's even more severe than that. Dear friends, all of this throughout Turkey also leads to a bulge in the number of executive files. There was an execution file in 2003, but during the AKP administrations, when we looked, the number reached 21,838K as of last year. If the Justice Department gives us the new data, we can see that it's growing very easily. Now, that means that the tradesmen and artists are left in the hands of banks, abandoned to their conscience. And because of his debt, a lot of tradesmen's goods are being confiscated. Last year, 685 workplaces were sold for execution, dear friends, and the number rose to 906 ▪ with a 32 per cent increase in the first half of this year. The situation, in short, points to an environment where banks are real estate-rich. Dear friends, another indicator is that 91,000 tradesmen, a credit bond co-op, are still an institution of the tradesman, 461 million liras in capital and $400 million in late interest. Recently, the government claimed it was structured. Why did he claim it? Because it's constructed with interest, and it's been constructed in a way that's supposed to be a loan. 131,000 people can't pay the debt to the People's Bank. My dear friends, let's come to the matter of this bill. Now, the opening of malls in cities and very densely populated centers is causing trade-related problems. But that's not enough, it's just that in the neighborhood and in the streets, what we call the industry stores is the real danger that our friends have been serious about these issues in the commission, but unfortunately, they haven't been rested. Dear friends, again, I've just told you, the event of the establishment of the General Directorate of Traders and Artists during the 57th Government. Now, about the historical issue of this bill. As the first step of this bill, a draft plan was drafted by the 57th Government, and again by the Ministry of Multi-industrial and Trade, concerning the hypermarket, major stores and shopping malls, which, unfortunately, remained a sort of bitch for not being able to come to parliament, in the event that the elections were to be moved forward. Dear friends, from this point forward, in the 23rd term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on March 25, 2008, I proposed a law. Gene wasn't interviewed at the time, nor was he on the commission, nor was he on the General Assembly, under the terms of the relevant Internal Charter. After that, I reiterated this proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 5, 2011, during the 24th term. I have an offer in the interview of the 675 rows we discussed, but it's so interesting -- it's just been expressed on this bench -- not a single concept was taken from our proposals, not a single line, not a single sentence. But, inside of this, it's made soup, or rather, it's made a bag, and inside that bag are the offers that I and our fellow lawmakers have made as individuals. Now, my dear friends, if we could just get out of the hypermarket lobby and look at the business and artist window, instead of discussing these kinds of plans to save the day, things would be different. How's that? For one thing, the bill should have been: tradesmen and artists on one side, manufacturers and suppliers on the other, and another one working at the mall. About that, we don't see a single line in this bill, dear friends. I don't understand why the holiday issue hasn't been brought up when you're looking at it especially from the employees' perspective, because it's part of the proposal made by the ruling party lawmakers. I mean, even when the Commission was in session, these respected lawmakers didn't understand the need to defend their own proposals. My dear friends, I think we need to fight the issue this way: once -- Mr. Secretary has also expressed -- I think that the total sales area would have to be divided by about 5 per cent of the total price, as a space, as a small -- once an average square meter -- and once the Minister and the Ministry -- come to a huge amount of rent. It is said here that there are many tradesmen who will give it to him. They are not real tradesmen, Minister, they are others, who the AVM has found from right to left and wish to take it to him as a tenant. We can't see them as true tradesmen and artists in that sense. The other thing you're saying is, with about three out of a thousand funny numbers in traditional, cultural and artistic values, how are you going to protect these arts, and frankly, I'm very curious. This bill was supposed to stand up to the lobby and take care of the real situation of the small tradesman, but we see that it doesn't exist. Our faith and our view is that if we can't get rid of the problems of this life-threatening trade and artistry of the economy, if we can't get them back on their feet, if we can't revive them, we can't expand our economy, and we can't get them to an advanced goal in a locomotive. I salute the General Assembly again with the belief that the country's development and prosperity will only rise on the shoulders of these social and economic areas.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0074par0337	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ibrahim Binici.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0075par0340	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Bill 675. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, have been constantly on the agenda for a legal arrangement concerning the AVMs since the 57th Government. The state, the tradesman and the artist in Article 173 of the Constitution shall take protective, supportive measures. Despite the decree and the promise of every government to pass the law, the retail law is finally on the agenda of Parliament. Dear lawmakers, every day the shopping chain and the grocery chain, which are multiplying like mushrooms, were able to enter the alleys throughout our country under the name of the chain of markets. This network of large markets, which are allowed to be opened everywhere, swallows and closes the fine tradesmen of our cities, our towns, our neighborhoods, day by day; its grocery store, its grocery store, its butcher, its baker, its baker, its shoe store, its shoe maker, its store, its shoe maker, its store is disappearing one by one by one every day. With this system, called the free market, the profit of multinational retail companies is crooked and unfair, but millions of consumers' sweats go abroad through large chain companies. Our tradesman, who can't handle foreign-owned store companies that are scattered between the streets, so to speak, is catching flies by nightfall. In particular, with a growing trend in recent years, shopping from malls and large store chains has led to the collapse of the small tradesman. At this point, many of our tradesmen close their doors, while tax debts, insurance and BUG-KUR debts, credit card loans, credit loans think of our tradesmen in black. Dear lawmakers, it's clear that even those who pursue large malls, even forest fields, have no problem protecting small tradesmen. I would like to share with you a report in terms of understanding the dimensions of the AVM spiral when a sense of power is now closed. According to the Turkish AVM Potential Analysis Report, prepared by a real estate company, 326 AVM has been operating with a total of 9.25 million square metres of rentable space in 2013, while in the first nine months of this year, the AVM number has risen to 342 (9.96 million square metres). For the entire year 2014, the sector estimated 390 malls and 11.24 million square metres of rental space. The report, which said the AVM number and the metre-square target were effective in keeping them below expectations, included 64 AVM projects, which were declared to be open in 2014. However, at the end of the ninth month, 16 of these numbers appear to have been implemented. The reasons for this may be listed as delaying openings, changing the investment function or giving up the project directly. Also, according to the report, as to their prospects for the next term, by the end of 2016, Turkey is expected to rent around 13.5m square metres of AVM, but we face fewer AVM openings than are always declared. In this context, the ceiling must be regarded as a level of 13.5 million square metres. According to estimates in the report, 432 AVMs and 12.84m square metres are expected to be rented in 2015, while 449 AVM and 13.58m square metres in 2016 are available. A total of 342 malls operating in Turkey as of the end of September are 112 put in Istanbul, while Istanbul is the city of Turkey with the most available and rentable areas. According to this, Istanbul has 4.31m square metres of the current 9.96m-square-squared rental space across Turkey. Seven of the 16 malls opened in the first nine months of this year are still in Istanbul. Dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, thinking that this law, which has made Turkey a better AVM paradise during its rule, will not solve the problems.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0076par0348	Thank you. On behalf of individuals, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0077par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge on behalf of myself, and I salute the General Assembly. Now, of course, this is Bill 675, a bill that carries the regulations for the AVM, with weight, but is far beyond the expectations of our tradesman. Believe me, it's just been so hard getting this five-minute conversation ready. It takes two or three hours to explain it, and we've been out of hair for years. Now, on 26-27 November, a tradesman was gathered. So, as opposition, we've invited the government to gather the tradesman's share for years. They made a nice, bad shoplifter. We didn't hear about the invitations as MPs from this trade trade and customs ministry, which we learned was the owner. I don't know how he sent these invitations. However, some political figures have been transformed into a show of Mr. Erdogan and AKP power. You'd think the tradesman would be spared. There's only one thing you've been bragging about for 12 years, O power! You're bragging about how much you owe the tradesman. In July 2014, Mr. Hayati Printer said: "Esnaf could get 154 million lira loans in 2002, but when he was in debt, it increased 76 times in our time. We can now lend $11 billion, 600 million, and he can take out loans. In all, we gave 36 billion in loans. Look at what the government boasts. We face a power that boasts how much it owes the tradesman. So, for 12 years, brother, what else have you done for the tradesman? Say something with a pen. See, in 2010, Prime Minister Erdogan said at an AVM opening, just like that, we remembered that the grocery store was over. He drew 100,000 grocery stores in one pen, threw them away, then praised the malls, and during their 12-year term, no mall openings were missed by ministers, prime ministers. The AVMs were practically blessed and praised in the AKP's rule, and the tradesman was despised by his opponent, and not necessarily. This bill created great expectations, but it had promises, promises of power -- at the coming point of these expectations, when the tradesman gave birth to nine, it gave birth to rats as well. Now I remember a saying from the former Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr. Nihat Ergün, about the move of the malls out of the city: my brother, is there a wheel under the malls so that we can move them out of the city? It's interesting how the government sees things, rather than whether or not they move out of town. The Prime Minister says, "We're going to move it out of the city under the wheel," as he praises the malls and mocks them. Now, I'm asking the government, Mr. Secretary: which of the decisions made in the business department have been reflected in this bill, answer the matter, one. Two: In 2010, you had the Shoplifting, Transformation, Support Project, again, in bold words. Four years have passed, and you still haven't fulfilled 90 percent of it, 95 percent of it, and you're just an expectation management. You're busy stalling the tradesman, making promises to the future. Mr. Minister of Customs and Trade, both these 3D (Change, Change, Support) Projects should explain where the government came from four years later, as well as what was reflected in this bill from decisions made in the trade department; these should be explained. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0078par0365	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0079par0369	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of individuals on the Bill of the Law on the Order of Retail Trade, ranking 675. I salute you all. Now, dear friends, there's one thing we all agree on with our opposition to power, and that's that law being passed. Because over the years, especially over the last 20 years, we've seen shopping malls, of course, chain markets all over the world, and they've been trying to dominate the market by competing with retail markets, and they've been in a lot of places. However, so far, there has been a serious gap in the law on the regulation of retail trade. So, for the first time today, the law of this retail trade, based on the existing Turkish Trade Law, business laws, debt laws, and the laws of law, has come under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the first time. Of course, the negative, plus, is going to be talked about as well as all the laws, which is natural, but we have to get this law out. Because, while we all wish that the malls had done or were out of town, we all accept that even the shelves on the other side work against the tradesman, that the supplier works against him. In order to display a property there or sell it to a market, many companies have to accept all the requirements required and use the free market economy here. Sure, based on what? They're using it to their advantage. On the other side, you're looking at companies in shopping malls that have been doing this for more than half of their products over the year under the name "outlet" stores. That's also a limitation. What's done? It has been said that since they are outlet stores, what will at least do with 70 percent of the goods he sells? He's gonna put it on sale. Again, regulations have been made regarding these periods of sale, and studies have been carried out on the fact that these deadlines will not exceed three months. Now, as I mentioned at the beginning here, we are on the side of the law with its power and its opposition, because for the first time, a law on retail trade is being set up, which will be passed in the Grand National Assembly. Now, as for the number of tradesmen, the annual retailer in the economy today is over 400 billion in turn, and we are in a system with 1,600,000 tradesmen. Of course, the Bill of Law on Editing Retail Trade has been assessed to include the entire retail trade sector, the organised retail trade sector, shopping malls, large stores and chain stores, as well as the company's business and dealerships. Now, the malls have worked on the rules that will allow more tradesmen and artists to take part. Again, measures have been made to ensure the survival of jobs that were about to disappear. To support the local manufacturer, arrangements for the sale of local products in retail businesses were included. Now, a little bit, of course, there's a supply and demand issue in the proliferation of these shopping malls, and there's a preference for shopping malls. There's a place in Gaziantep, my hometown, right in the center of the city called "Bedesten" -- it's been in the center for years -- and the public hasn't appreciated it, and now we're tearing it down, and we're building a parking space. But also, we see that the number of local companies in the city is increasing rapidly, and we see that the tradesmen who come together are building markets. Of course, these are events that are going on within the rules of trade, in the circumstances of life itself. Given these, I think Parliament is a dynamic structure in the coming process, and will take into account any further developments. I wish this bill to be good for our economy, with respect.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit03spe0080par0376	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 675. The Commission and the Government are here. Moving on to QA. Mr. Light? No. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the first article, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is number 1. Article 1. We offer and offer the protection of the consumer, the addition of its declaration, to "do according to sustainable conditions of competition" in his joke. Yusef Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Alim Light Mesut Dedeoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Erkan Akçay Adnan Şeşek Ugly Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is number 1. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of "a positive assessment of small businesses and business and artistic enterprises" after the joke "in accordance with sustainable conditions of competition." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Aykan Erdemir İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Haluk Eyidoğan Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISION Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0081par0026	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0080par0027	Who will speak, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0082par0028	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0081par0029	Excuse me, Mr. President, I thought it was Mr. Light's motion. We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0083par0031	Okay, you know what, we don't agree.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0084par0032	So it's not a motion, it's a name?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0083par0033	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0085par0034	I don't talk, let it go as he says. He did.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0083par0035	But he took it back. Now, don't put me in any trouble.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0086par0036	Correction is always possible.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0085par0037	Minister, why didn't you attend? See what we're saying, I'm reading what Mr. Minister doesn't agree with, the 1st article, which Mr. Minister prepared: the purpose of this Law is to facilitate the transition of retail businesses to start and operate, to make retail trade effective and sustainable competition in the free market environment, to ensure a balanced growth and development of retail businesses and the activities of retail businesses, to regulate one of them, producers and suppliers. ▪ A positive assessment of small businesses and tradesmen's and artists' businesses... is what we want you to put to its purpose.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0086par0039	Shall I tell you, Mr. Sesame, if you...?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0085par0040	Sure.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0086par0041	We agree, but when we accept Mr. Light's motion, we must be forced to reject it. It's because of him, Mr. Sesame, that there are two unsubstantiated motions, or else we agree.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0087par0042	You can join them both...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0085par0043	Mr. Secretary, in the speeches, you said that you were thinking about the tradesman and the artist, mostly, until the first chapter was passed over. I'm sure you're thinking about it, but when I look at the text of the law, it's not like that. You said: "The number of Esnaf does not go down. Let me talk to you with the numbers. There's the Head Office of the Traders and Artists. He'll tell me the number of grocery stores you came to power in 2002, and he'll tell me the number of people in Turkey that day, and he'll tell me the number of populations in Turkey today. Tell me the numbers are down or not. But I'll give you a number. See, between February 2013 and February 2014, five stores we call a thrift store, BIM, A101, UCZ, SHOK, Ekomini opened 3,600 new branches, 3,600. Dear friends, do these leave groceries on the street? The rest of the groceries are cigarettes, if there's a bet, if there's a Sport Toto, they're not at the point where they're doing anything but that. And if he can sell bread, they won't let him sell it. They've fallen, they've had a chance to live, there's no point in them stopping at that store in the face of those turnovers, they've left the store. I'm asking you, all of you, as my congressman friend, are wandering the streets, don't you see the shops that are coming out of those streets? Don't you see how many plates used to be used for air money in stores now called "It's renty"? There's only one thing in the streets, it's built with money, it's financed, it's the stores that try to take over the market. Look, I've just told you, I'll tell you in Article 2. The industrialist's buying groceries now. When you look at the structure of these markets, the manufacturers... Look, I'll tell you something else: one of Turkey's largest holdings bought a new chain of department stores, tripled its stock market value, tripled its stock market assessment, and on the stock market, he bought it for $30. Do you know why he took it? He needed those chain stores to get his product into the market, to get it into the market, so he bought it for him, that's what it's all about. He built chain stores, little ones, and they weren't enough, because it's getting very difficult to get into stores. If you're producing product, you'll go to whoever controls the market and submit to it. Along with these, the tradesman melts every day. Tell me the numbers, I'm in this business, I know the grocery numbers are fast-tracked during your time, base, I want you to know that. For him, the spirit of this law must be in the understanding that protects the tradesman and the artist, and you must put it in the object of purpose. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0088par0048	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is number 1. Article 1. We offer and offer the protection of the consumer, the addition of its declaration, to "do according to sustainable conditions of competition" in his joke. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0089par0057	We agree. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to brief you on this number of tradesmen and artists. Now, there were a number of very different figures about the number of tradesmen and artists, and there was information that some of them seemed to be tradesmen, despite the fact that some of them were not real, that they were not real, that they were practical, that they were essentially deleted from the IRS records. The records of nearly 417,879 tradesmen, which were determined by our Ministry, compared with ESBIS, the trade and art database and the IRS records, have been deleted; 417,879. When you looked at it, it was on the record, but it wasn't real, it wasn't real. It fell down. The number is called, on this basis. Otherwise, it's not a fall. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0090par0061	Dear...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0091par0062	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0090par0063	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement also aims to protect the consumer. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In the agreed motion framework, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In Article 2 there are two motions, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is the second time in a row. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of "publicly institutional vocational rooms" after the statement of "management management" in his joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Aykan Erdemir İlhan Demirözük Haluk Eyidoğan Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is the second time in a row. We propose that the matter be changed in the following way. "MEDDE 2- (1) This Law covers the duties, authority and responsibilities of retail businesses, and the implementation of this law through procedures and regulations related to the opening, activity and control of retail businesses and the duties of the Ministry, the administration, the relevant NGOs and occupational rooms and other public institutions. (2) The process of opening and/or transitioning from businesses operating in the service sector and the activities organised by special laws are outside the scope of this Law." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Mesut Dedeoğlu Reşat Right Erkan Akçay Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0092par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0090par0089	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0093par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good evening, my respects. The AKP government, which entered its thirteenth year, tried to change the state. Why is it that when we say that it's occupation, sir, the people's will is behind us. Those who gave themselves titles, the man of the nation, have ignored the problems of the small tradesman and artist who are interested in the welfare of the nation for thirteen years. Of course, by the way, the small tradesman ended up wrestling with large malls, hypermarkets, the local grocery store, the shoe store, the butcher, the tailor, the small shop. In the meantime, what did my government, the AKP government, and the prime ministers do? They watched. Despite the nationalist Movement Party's warnings that social peace and peace are crucial, the AKP has gone beyond watching, openly aiding and abetting the AVMs. They gave land in the most central, most busy areas of the city, even after the public lands, they made zoning changes; in short, they did everything the AVMs asked them to do. I mean, in this wrestling, they've already opened the way for the games, sir, by comparing our national athlete to foreign giants or lightweight boxers. There is a saying, as Basra could not be saved after the destruction of Basra, and in this case, the AKP is the killer. This arrangement was envisioned and prepared and brought to parliament at the time of the 57th government, and passed through the Commission, but it was not able to establish law in the General Assembly as a result of the destruction of the 57th government with foreign intervention, such as the drowning of a lion. The AKP, which has claimed most of the government's projects, for some reason has ignored its project in this area for 13 years, saw fit to leave it on dusty shelves. As the National Movement Party, of course, we support this bill, but we know very well that it has its shortcomings, its inadequacies, and it's delayed. Dear MPs, there's no need to reinvent the world. Just as malls are not allowed in city centers around the world, it is no longer debated that the city should be taken to a distance. These malls are no longer seen to be allowed to open branches in neighborhoods. The local residents are given the opportunity to live on what we call a grocery store. In some countries -- like France -- there are models of giving part of its share to local merchants as an institutional condition for these malls and hiring them from the children of the shopkeepers who have been shut down to work there, and thus the small tradesman is being tried to protect them. It's a quick draft. That's what the speakers before me said, sir. Hand over hand. I wish these were discussed, dear friends. So, is this going to make any progress? Yeah, I mean, it's going to make relatively small progress, and we're already saying that we're going to support it, but, dear friends, when a new structure is being built, I think we can do a lot better together by thinking more deeply about understanding in the world, looking at understanding in the world, and, like the Guild system, considering our historical institutions and institutions. Let's put it this way: when we come to power as the National Movement Party, we will make sure that this promise to the small tradesman comes first, and we want it to be known here. If the AKP says, "Let's do this quickly, sir." Let's form a joint study group, bring it to the House group. We're ready for that, just as long as our little tradesman can survive under better circumstances. And we're prepared to support it as the National Movement Party. The ball is now, sir, in the government, and the plague of it is still in the government. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0094par0102	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is the second time in a row. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of "publicly institutional vocational rooms" after the statement of "management management" in his joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0095par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0094par0112	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0096par0114	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, what we want added to Article 2 is the public institutional office. Now, you're setting up the retail sales information system, you're getting the money from the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association, and then you're arguing that the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges of Turkey and TESK are involved in the 2nd article. What are we talking about? The scope includes the duties and powers of public institutions, you say. The public institution you call the public institution, which you understand, is a government-only organization. TOBBB and TESK are vocational rooms of the public institution. If it's them, it'll be good, Mr. Secretary. Let me give you an example. I just gave you an example. The University of Uludağ is digging in Bursa Mudanya. When you dig... it's a third-degree area of port. It's opening up, it's a company, and it's getting a mall permit for a third-degree sitter, guys, in the sit area. Some of it stays there, some of it gets carried out. He's getting a permit to do a mall there. Look, he's getting a license, and then he's suing local vocational rooms and civil society, the district administration court. The district administration court has halted the decision by saying, "Can't build on a third-degree status area." After that, the court moves those who have signed the verdict to the court for abuse of office. I mean, look at the power of a chain, an AVM, it's licensed to build on its site, and it's able to move the existing pieces of status and historical parts from the sitcom to get the decision to open the AVM there, Mr. Minister. These are the institutions you call the public institution. If there was a trade agency here, if there was a TOBB, if there was a TEC, would that be a decision? Wouldn't these boards make better decisions when these permits are taken? In front of these forces, don't they say, "Hey, what are you doing? How do you open the AVM in the third-degree area?" Without the court channel, without the law, they won't get it. Now, in the face of these organizations that have this much power, I'm trying to tell you, our friends are trying to tell you, they've got the power, they've got the money, they've got the lobby, they've got the media, they've got the TV channels, they can tell everything, my strange tradesman, my artist has no power. You're giving me the numbers from there after you went to the Trader Information System. I know exactly what those numbers are. Those numbers aren't about groceries; they're information about what's happening in the rooms, not in general trades. Friend, I'm telling you, how many people have been missing from people who actually shoplift, get a monopoly license, get a license from the city, work. They're going down, they're going down. In the face of their problems, representatives of these, trade rooms, the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, although they're not very interested in it, I'm saying that although the AVM people are more active in them, perhaps they'll be more interested in it, but let the public institutional vocational rooms come in, and they'll be in it, so that the law can be enforced. Now, in this law, you've taken all enforcement powers into the Ministry, put them in a central structure. Get a little democratization, let the vocational rooms get involved, and they'll give you an opinion on that. The democratization, the new Turkey, the democratic Turkey? One man in every field, government; you take the job to the government. Where's the NGO, where's the vocational rooms, where's the consumer associations that civil society says? They're not here. This law cannot really be a law that protects and protects the tradesman and artist unless you dictate it into this law. That's why we gave the motion. I'm waiting for backup on our motion.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0097par0120	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 3 there are two motions, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article 1. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. "m) Chain store: no matter what name the similar consumer goods are under, there is a partially or completely retail sale, which operates in a centre of the same real or corporate ownership; at least one of them has at least five branches, or the company with a sales area of less than four hundred square meters each, with at least ten branches. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article 1. We propose that the joke (j) be added below (k) bendi bendi bendi, and the other bents be identified accordingly. "k) The number of businesses: the number of retail businesses that can be opened across the province, depending on the population and needs of each neighborhood," Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün İlhan Demiröz Mahmoud Tanal Haluk Eyidoğan Kemal Millendereli Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0098par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0097par0143	Mr. Sesame, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0099par0144	Mr. Kemal Millendereli will speak. He signed the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0097par0145	Mr. Millerdere, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0100par0147	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Bill of Law on the Order of Retail Trade No. 675. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill, which mainly regulates the working conditions of the AVM (AVM), has made eye-blowing small improvements to the tradeshop, but the front of a large chain of markets has been opened even more than it used to be. A large market has a variety of products sold by about 70 tradesmen. They're selling till they get to wood and coal. Now here's something that looks positive. The AVMs must pay for their purchase within 30 days, but we also discussed the Commission as to how to impose sanctions on this issue. In this regard, unfortunately, there was no sanction. So let's not doubt that you'll be the same as before. Again, the manufacturers will be sentenced to four months, five months, six months' worth of checks at the mall unless we bring these sanctions. And our other friends told me that the people who spoke before me, these markets, they're in and out of the neighborhood. And one very important thing: markets, big markets don't buy local products. So, for example -- as Edirne MP -- he doesn't take the peppers of the elm tree, the beans of Edirne, and he gets tomatoes from Antalya. Local tomatoes are not sold in these markets or sold in Edirne, they come from other areas. So it doesn't enrich the local market. It's an important law on this matter, I'm afraid, my friends. Another persistent request: that the AVMs be located by a co-ordination board in the province... as a matter of fact, by local initiative. It's not been assessed either. Again, this location is being determined by centrally questioning TESK (TESK) and TOBB (TİBB) under the permits of municipalities, as used to be. Now, of course, this large scale structure is causing our tradesman to melt rapidly. Again, according to TESK data, four million trades in the 2000s have dropped to around 1.5 million today. I also received the latest figures in Edirne, my science, from our Chamber of Business Artists. So in the 1980s, there were 40,000 tradesmen, and the number fell to 14,500. So we're down two-thirds. Just as the Minister was answering questions, Esnafa said that the most valuable support was to provide cheap and easy financing. Well, that's true, but even here, the tradesman still can't stand, and every day, every day, the shops close. Here, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to bring it to your attention. As much as you might say, "Esnafa is cheap financing." It's important, and it concerns hundreds of thousands of trades. It's a record pardon, so he doesn't have a chance to get a loan from any bank because of five years ago, ten years ago, because he's been protesting, and he doesn't even get a chance to get a loan from the tradesman's bail co-ops. This is a very important matter. I think it would be one of the most important things to do to our tradesmen and artists that you will be able to demonstrate a will to overcome this matter as soon as possible. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0101par0157	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article 1. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. "m) Chain store: no matter what name the similar consumer goods are under, there is a partially or completely retail sale, which operates in a centre of the same real or corporate ownership; at least one of them has at least five branches, or the company with a sales area of less than four hundred square meters each, with at least ten branches. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISION
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0102par0166	Mr. President, we have a question regarding the number of groceries.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0101par0167	But first, tell me if you agree.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0102par0168	We agree, Mr. President. As of 2010, when ESBIS was actively activated, the exact figures were: 2010, 153,816; 2011, 155,000; 2012, 160; 2013, 163,000; 2014, 166,000. So, our grocery numbers continue to grow. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0103par0171	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to expand the size of the large store within the chain store. Reverends, I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the Article 3, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 4 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Business. Article (3). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ==References========Early life=========Early life=======Early life=======Early life=======References=======External links=== The Union's budget for operating costs and other costs is earmarked every year. The amount of this grant cannot exceed one percent of the annual budget. If the budget of the Union is not sufficient, the costs will be covered by the budget of the ministry," he said. Alim Izlut Mesut Dedeoğlu D. Ali Torlak Kütahya Kahramanmarash İstanbul Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Erkan Akçay Adnan Şeşek Ugly Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Business. Article 2 of the Article 2. It's the third one down after his joke. We propose that the joke be added, that the other jokes be identified accordingly. "The Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey and the Traders and Artists of Turkey are allowed access to the PERBIS system to monitor the given and unapproved permits, the grounds and deadlines of non-approved permits." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Süleyman Çelebi Commission, do you agree? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0104par0195	We disagree, Mr. President. However, we'll allow them to enter the secondary legislation on the PERBIS.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0103par0197	I'm reading the reason: It was intended to connect with PERBIS to see if its members could get permission, if they couldn't get it, and how long it took to get it. The way to prevent access to other information allowed to the TOBB and TESK will also be restricted and prevent the disclosure of commercial secrets, and will recognise the responsibility of indirect study of the permit process for the two public institutions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Business. Article (3). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ==References========Early life=========Early life=======Early life=======Early life=======References=======External links=== The Union's budget for operating costs and other costs is earmarked every year. The amount of this grant cannot exceed one percent of the annual budget. If the budget of the Union is not sufficient, the costs will be covered by the budget of the ministry," he said. Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0105par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0103par0210	Hatay MP Mr. Chiefk Ugly, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0106par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, for our tradesman, we all make a law here with good things in it, and we support it, and we believe that there is a law that must be passed, despite the shortcomings we find important. Now, Mr. Secretary just mentioned that our grocery numbers are increasing. Of course, the grocery store is a disaster. So today, the grocery uncle of years, decades, hundreds of years, is trying to do his job in a very troubling way. Why? Markets that open in the middle are not only grocery stores, but at least 15-20 pens, including butchers, ruining careers. It occurred to me that in the 2007 general elections, when Mr. President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan came to the rally today as Prime Minister of Fashion, Hatay, he suddenly became an urban legend. What happened? As we finished the rally and left the city, a grocery store, sir, had a cup of tea. He said, "Here, have a cup of tea." And the Prime Minister -- the Prime Minister of Return -- drank the tea of our grocery store. It's beautiful so far, but then the mother of our grocery store cried, and the mother of all the grocery stores in Turkey cried. These are important problems. Now, we call it the mall, we're talking about the malls being out of town. After 2009, the AVM was opened in the belly of Antioch - Antakia, a district with hundreds of thousands of inhabitants - in the middle, in the middle. Traffic doesn't work there anymore. I mean, it's a normal citizen, and it's also the bottom of our famous Long Market district. Now, does that make any sense? I mean, how does it open into the heart of the city? Of course, the law is somehow turned around, and this is what's being done, and that's what's being done, and that's what's being done, and that's what's being done, because the citizen who's trying to come to the shop there can't find a way out of traffic. So, for hours, Antioch traffic is paralyzed. No authority can take any precautions. Cars don't walk on the road, they're Antiochian cars. He cannot walk on the sidewalk, neither from Antioch nor from the crowd of Syrian refugees. I mean, it's a situation like this, it's a disaster like this. Our shopkeeper can't shop, can't sell, can't sell, can't sell, then we'll turn around and close once a week, sir, and it'll be like this, it'll be like this. What is it, sir? Now, the mall will have 3-5 per cent quotas. Who? Esnafa. Can't the shopkeeper see how to rent a shop from the mall, so he doesn't know? If this isn't free, what money is he gonna rent it with? That's something else. These are very important matters. So as Antioch, we suffer from this mall in the heart of Antioch. Antioch is a place where I live, and we are troubled. I repeat, maybe he's going again, but I'm doing it in the hope that he'll get some attention, the car won't walk, we've got a problem like this, our shopkeeper can't find a place to put his own car. Now, how does this happen, and what's it gonna be? So there won't be any precautionary measures? The nation expects it from the state, the nation expects it from the state, its government, its government, and it goes on and on. Since we can't move the long market of centuries -- it's historical -- we need to find a way to solve the problems of this tradesman. But I also have two words for our shop: so he complains, he comes and tells us about his situation, he takes it away and gives it to the AKP. I mean, there's a need for explanations, and I think he'll be more troubled if he continues. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0107par0219	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 5 there are three motions, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article (5). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. "For those whose application is inadmissible, the result will be delivered on grounds within 30 days at the latest." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly " A building permit for the shopping mall project is granted, while the opinion of top professional institutions is taken, " states Article 5 of the current law bill 675. "The binding quality of these views is created by setting up mechanisms. We propose and propose the addition of the AVM license only if the NGOs report positive views on ecology, women's and youth with vocational rooms. Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article (2). We propose that the joke be changed in the following way, added to the jokes (3) and (8) below, and identified accordingly. In accordance with the opinion of the vocational institution, the administration determines the number of norms in each of the jobs of each neighborhood, paying attention to each other, dwellings, populations, and needs of retail businesses in relation to the activities and arms of the municipality across the province. (3) The administration allows other conditions for applying retail businesses to be available in the legislation until the norm number of businesses is around. Norm rejects applications after the number of businesses is completed and directs them to the nearest area with a number of norms missing. (8) The shopping centre and department store cannot be opened in the city centers, where the districts and towns have completed their social and economic development. Those who have been opened when the law comes into effect can continue to operate if the conditions in other articles of the law are established within five years." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Süleyman Çelebi Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0108par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0107par0251	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0109par0252	Mr. President, with this law, we have established a system called PERBIS. We've established a system where permissions will be taken, all documents will be issued before a business opens, and then sent to municipalities and relevant institutions for other transactions after approval has been granted. This system is correct, but before this system, our suggestion is that it's important for this system to be run better. Look, what we're offering here, let me walk you through it by giving you an example: we did a study in İzmir, with the support of the Izmir Development Agency, and we pulled out the Izmirian Geographic Information System. You look, you see, it's all there is, it's all there is, it's all there is. The shopkeeper says to the new person, there's no legal obligation, but if you're going to open a grocery store, a barber, a shoe store, something else, there's only this number, so just so you know. If there's an unfair competition or potential, don't open it up, there's a shortage there, go open it up over there, it'll be better. We say here: Let a system of information be created in cities to create a norm at the opening of businesses. According to this information system, what commercial potential is, what business is needed, and what needs it to contribute to this understanding in directing the PRBIS. This also applies to, look, even the malls. Some malls, of course, do market research and open their seats accordingly, but there are points where there are lots of places that are made without seeing the potential of the city, or someone opening up next to one of them, making the ones that were opened the last time they weren't able to do business. Now, for example, we have some very good places in Izmir Balçova. The Fahrettin Altay Square, called the Triads, is coming to the Resort Park, where there will be a large Resort Park, a distance of 500 meters between them. Those places 500 meters away, the malls will now be unable to do business against him; the future of traffic is a separate event. But, dear friends, if you take the city's potential, if you create the commercial information system, do we need to open a new business in that city, or not... because, as a result, these spending funds are the resources in this country. If a ministry organises retail trade on this issue, it must provide accurate information at the point where retail trade will be directed, correcting the areas of the need, and correcting the people who are inclined, the entrepreneurs, and getting their investment in accordance with it. That's the systematic we're offering. It's systematic. It's systematic. That's what happens in the world. Look, in Europe, there is a ban on the contrary, it says: "You can't open there. " Do you know what there are in countries that aren't forbidden? I can't take advantage of the tradesmen's incentives. If you want to open it, it doesn't stop you from opening it on the street, but it says: "You can't take advantage of the tradesmen's incentives." For example, in tax exemptions, you have no right to receive tax exemption. I warned you. Despite this warning, you are opening your business. For him, we invite this practical application in the modern world to participate in this system. In that sense, that's our suggestion. You answer me in your explanations. I'll give you an answer about the groceries. I told him the story. There may be a relative increase in grocery numbers. You include in it what has been revealed. But you're going to be proportional to the population, you're going to be proportional to commercial potential, you're going to be proportional to urbanization. When you don't compare with him, there's a... Two, you're gonna do it with a turnover. You'll see how the grocery bill is doing right now. It is not possible to make an accurate assessment of these things without seeing them. It's a very clear reality that every day, both the turnovers and the numbers are shrinking. For your information.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0110par0258	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly " A building permit for the shopping mall project is granted, while the opinion of top professional institutions is taken, " states Article 5 of the current law bill 675. "The binding quality of these views is created by setting up mechanisms. We propose and propose the addition of the AVM license only if the NGOs report positive views on ecology, women's and youth with vocational rooms. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0111par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0110par0268	Read the reason, please. Most of the malls in today's Turkey have not been subjected to any inspections in the process of getting licenses in accordance with the government's Rant policies. The AVMs, which became the symbol of AKP-era Turkish capitalism, today are the biggest problems in cities. The main cause of many urban problems today, primarily major cities, is the malls. Therefore, the decision for the planned malls should not be taken without the binding consent or rejection of these organisations, in accordance with the powers vested in vocational rooms, women, youth and ecology organisations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, This is the 5th edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article (5). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. "For those whose application is inadmissible, the result will be delivered on grounds within 30 days at the latest." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Is the commission in? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Government?
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0112par0280	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit04spe0110par0281	Reason, please. The arrangement aims to provide a limit for a period of time to prevent any problems that may occur in the implementation and also to get the opinion of the institutions in that place. I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the accepted motion framework, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-13sit05spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 675. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Defense Commission Report and with the Law on the Building of the National Mine Action Center and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (January 14, 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
