tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 92nd Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has been called upon to hold talks on the 95th anniversary of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and on the meaning and significance of the day and on the call of our presidency according to the 7th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. President has honored our great House of Honor by taking its place in the audience box. I welcome them on behalf of your great delegation. [[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] I'm now reading the extraordinary call for a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Turkey Reported to Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly is held on Thursday (April 23, 2015) in accordance with Articles 7 of the 93rd and Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, as part of Articles 7 of the Constitution 93rd and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution to discuss the celebration of the 95th anniversary and the significance of the day. I'm calling an emergency meeting at 00. I'd like to ask the MPs to attend the General Assembly meeting at the appointed time and day. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Council of Counsellors has a proposal for today's meetings, and I'll have them read it and vote for you: On Thursday (April 23rd 2015), the General Assembly recommended that the presidents of political parties, who are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, be promised to the vice president or presidents of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, for the sake of announcing the meaning and importance of the day, be given a three-minute commitment to the General Assembly for 10 minutes. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Congressmans, I submit the Council of Counsellors proposal to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. Now, we begin our talks on the extraordinary agenda for the 95th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, the meaning and significance of the day. Dear lawmakers, today we celebrate the 95th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with enthusiasm. On this occasion, I honor all of our martyrs and veterans, including the representative of the Turkish nation's unity, the first President of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the founder of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Those blessed people have left us with a glorious past, an honorable history. A country where we can live free and independent, and every time we say it, they leave us the Istliklal Anthem, and the flag that makes us all proud as we wave in the send. This blessed journey, which began in 1919 from Samsun, resulted in a victory in İzmir, on 9 September 1922. Against the imperialist forces of the era, the heroes of the Turkish nation have written a new epic. The heroes who wrote the saga of our nation's return to history will always be remembered with gratitude and gratitude. They have lighted the darkness that is upon us, and have endured every kind of hardship and loss, and have saved our nation from destruction by the fire that they burned at Inön, and at Sakaryah, and at the fire that they burned at Dumlupınar. April 23, 1920 is a generation for our nation, which has been drawn from the Danube to the coast of Sakarya for nearly two hundred years, and that day has been a new beginning for our nation. Seven hundred and sixteen years ago today, new horizons opened up so that the flag raised in Willow would never fall to the ground again. The destruction of our state, the cause that brought our nation to the point of disintegration, has been exhausted and the infrastructure of regeneration has been established. The foundations of modern Turkey were laid today ninety-five years ago so as not to endanger freedom and independence again. Dear lawmakers, there are dates that the nations are proud of, and they are not just ordinary days or numbers. There's a great history that fills these days, and there's a meaning that feeds on it. April 23, 1920 is such a date for us, the greatest and first step this nation has ever taken to speak about its future. In this history, this great nation has its determination, its struggle, its determination, and its resurrection from the ashes. Our High Council has been the institution of national will for ninety-five years. The work and the contribution of our Parliament and our valued deputies, who served here, is both in the wining of our sovereignty and in the construction of today's modern-day Turkey. The will of the nation that has been here has built a modern, developed state 90 years ago, from the ruins of an empire in poverty. It is the will that has denied any occupation, constraints, constraints, or constraints, and has torn the shirt that the imperialists have made for it, and has faced the most difficult conditions to determine its own fate. That's why we call this great assembly the "Gazi Parliament." Such a title has never been granted to any other parliament in the world. The things that make nations a nation and make their characters like dough are the things they've been through, the things they've been through, the big troubles and the trouble. After World War I, this nation faced the greatest of these plagues - extinction, statelessness, and leaving the scene of history. In this most troubled phase of his history, people have come out to speak for themselves about his own destiny. And so, at this historic moment, this great House, under its roof, has formed into the embodiment of this nation's struggle for existence and determination. This saintly country and nation have led the struggle for existence not only through an army, but through the Grand National Assembly, which represents itself. Therefore, this great institution that we stand under is the Veteran Assembly, not just any parliament, and therefore the Founding Assembly because it has re-established the state. Its historical meaning is much more than an ordinary democratic institution or representation. It's not just an institution where the nation's ideas and opinions are represented, it's an institution of direct existence. To serve in such a privileged Parliament is both a legitimate source of pride and a heavy responsibility for all of us. With the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a period in Turkish history closed, a new era opened. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk put it, all jihan must know that there is no power, no authority, no power at the head of this state and this nation anymore. There is only one force, which is national sovereignty; there is only one office; it is the heart, conscience and presence of the nation. Our founding elders, who know our country's independence from their lives, have saved our nation from being pulled from the scene of history by the work they've done, and they've been recorded in gold letters in our national history. Yes, on April 23, 1920, our nation opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and declared its return to the history scene. Therefore, today is the day of our enthusiasm, and blessed be to all of us. When a nation's unity and unity is broken, it is extremely difficult to restore unity, to form the forces of resistance. For this reason, the most difficult phase of our Imperial War is the restoration of the disbanded army and the resuscitation of the nation. The children of this nation, who once ruled the Adriatic Sea of the Persian Gulf, have shown the path of salvation to all oppressed nations who have been oppressed and invaded by their struggle. Thanks to those great people, the great imperialist game has been broken. We need to know this well and always remember that the games, the attacks on our country, the attacks on our nation, the traps set up are not over, nor will they ever end. It continues today with different names, different scenarios. We are witnessing a slander and slander campaign recently led by some individuals and some parliaments, the Armenian diaspora and the forces behind it, against our nation. A scheme is set up by this one-sided, biased, historical truth and non-obstructive rhetoric and decision-making. Under this great roof, I would like to point out that in 1915, those who put a gun in the hands of Armenian gangsters are the same addresses that encourage thousands, tens of thousands of innocent Ottoman citizens to shed the blood of our brothers, encourage all kinds of support, and give the blood of thousands of citizens who shed blood on our country today, giving weapons, training, encouraging, giving all kinds of support. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] For 40 years, they have caused us a lot of pain through bloody acts of terror, both material and spiritual. Now they've started a new attack with so-called genocide lies, and we need to understand that. Some of those words and those who make decisions, their hands are dirty in history and they're bloody, trying to clean their hands on our clothes, dirty and bloody. The First Gulf War is one of the bloodiest battles mankind has ever had. More than 20 million people from different religions, ethnic origins, and nations have lost their lives. Fire has fallen into the furnaces, and countries have become ruined. It doesn't matter which ethnic origin the dead are, we share the pain of all of them; there can be no discrimination from Turkey, Kurd, Armenian or any other ethnic society. The Armenians, however, have a very important place in our history, in our culture and in our society. The human being, essentially, does not make politics through pain, does not discriminate. It is not right to discriminate by praising only one ethnicity of 20 million people, ignoring other millions. In particular, in a time when racism, discrimination, hate speech, and Islamophobia rise, it does not befit one-sided accusations and slanders to those who bear responsibility, regardless of their guise and adjectives. These words do not serve the peace that we need more and more every day. Especially those who violate the law and open themselves up to suffering and slandering our country with their views above the law, the parliaments who have decided to place themselves in the position of an international criminal court or a council of historians have done an irresponsible job. From now on, everyone must know that the responsibility belongs to those who make this decision, especially to our citizens who live abroad, especially to their children, and to those who make these decisions and say that if there is discrimination in schools, in streets, and in workplaces, if their hatred is to be increased, then the responsibility belongs to those who make it, those who make it. We, in 2005, made a unanimous decision as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to call on the world to be enlightened by the true aspects of the 1915 events. Only self-reliance nations make that call. We're ready to face our history, and we've said it on every occasion. But we also know that you won't be drawn to it. Because there's no doubt in my mind that the people who are behind and behind this campaign will be the ones who support it. They need to remember those who lost their lives in the middle of the Mediterranean, who died in the middle of the Mediterranean, who were buried in the waters of the Mediterranean, who lost their lives in Syria, Iraq, Palestine, Africa, war, and famine, and disease, and who lost their lives in Africa. Members of parliament, the nations who have adopted Anatolia must always be vigilant. The nations who have broken their unity, who have been played by the enemy, have left the scene of history; the nations who have maintained their energy have remained the subject of history. We must always be vigilant, consolidating our unity, unity, and brotherhood, and not give opportunities to those who mean our unity and our body. Let's not forget that our past is a reference to our future, but it's not a guarantee. It's inevitable that freedom and sovereignty will be compromised when people get into a self-inflicted altercation. When national harmony is broken, there is no doubt that those who seek to harm us will achieve their goal. Anatolia is our thousand-year-old home, and no doubt our eternal homeland. When it comes to the unity of the country, the freedom of the nation, the independence of the state, we must unite fate. It was shown by our elders who inaugurated the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 95 years ago. Today, we will show the same sensitivity to the independence of our state when it comes to those who are seeking the freedom of our nation. We'll continue to date, just as we've always held on to the great spirit of the First Assembly. Whatever the circumstances, the First Assembly will always set an example for us, and under extraordinary circumstances, we will hold law and justice superior. We will strengthen our democracy, make our state stronger, make our nation happier, by sticking to the principles of the founding of the First Assembly. We must know that the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the will of the nation. And we will always have that will. April 23, 1920 is not just any day. In the sense that this history, our children and our young ones, must learn it the right way. They are the future of this country. In order for our children and our young ones to understand the value of the land they live on, they must know the struggle that their grandparents have fought in the past. On this occasion, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd) of our children and young ones. Again, today, I remember this day as the birthday of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk -- as we owe it to the founding members of our parliament, our martyrs and veterans -- with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. Thank you. [[AK PARTY, MHP and the Council of Ministers welcome]] Congressmans, I will now make a three-minute commitment to the leaders of the political party group, as agreed today, for ten minutes, and to the heads of political parties that are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I read the order: Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Parliamentary Group, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, Chairman of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of Parliament, İstanbul MP Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, Chairman of the National Movement Party and Chairman of Parliament Group Osmaniye MP Mr. President of Peoples' Democratic Party, Co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party and Group Chairman of Group Mr. Idris Baluken, Chairman of Anadolu Party and Ankara MP Emine Gürr Tarhan, Co-Chair of Electronic Democracy Party and Ankara MP Mr. The first statement belongs to Prime Minister Konya MP Ahmet Davutoglu, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0002par0069	Mr. President, the Honorable President, the esteemed lawmakers, the greatest symbol of our sovereignty in the 92nd year of our republic, we all have the honor, the honor, the honor of being under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Gazi Turkey. On this blessed day, I sincerely congratulate Turkey and all the children of the world on the Day of Sovereignty and Children. I also congratulate you on the humbleness of this day, Regaip Kandili. On the 100th anniversary of the battle of Çanakkale, in these days when we host the whole world, we feel our epic history at the annual Day of Sovereignty, which we simultaneously celebrate. Mustafa Kemal, one of the commanders who wrote the legend of Çanakkale, will be the first president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, five years after that great struggle, and the leader of our future struggle. In Bilvesile, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Çanakkale, and in the Battle of Peace, we remember our martyrs and veterans with honor and gratitude and gratitude; and may their souls rest in peace. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Also, from April 23, 1920, I am grateful to all of our MPs who represent the will of the nation and who are serving under this great roof, using the right to rule from the nation. Today, the Republic of Turkey, with all the eyes of the world on it, has been released simultaneously to the history stage with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This Parliament is also the founding assembly of the Republic of Turkey. In the humble Turkish Grand National Assembly building in the nation's district, with representatives of all elements of the nation, the struggle for sovereignty has been led, history has been rewritten, our beloved nation, which is sought to be enslaved and broken, has been restored and forever. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most important symbol of our independence and future after our flag as a headquarters and command centre of the future struggle and a veteran parliament. This House has no other mate on earth. This roof is a symbol of unity for our country, for our nation, for our country, for our citizens. Under this roof, all elements of our nation have been represented and all discrimination has been denied. No one is allowed to be discriminated against, as no one is privileged under this roof. Every member of parliament under this roof feels the trust of the nation, the country, the country. Under this roof, all Turkey's colors, patterns, smells, mountains, rivers, plains, gathered together. No one's ethnic or religious identity is looked at, because being here means belonging to Turkey. This is the most honorable belonging in the world, and this is the most honorable tradition in the world. It is our duty to glorify the spirit of unity and unity and to represent the honor of our people on the basis of justice and justice. As we stated in the 2023 Convention we announced a few days ago, a hundred years ago, we are the descendants of the generation that founded our republic in an honorable battle over the sufferings of Tripoli, Balkan and World War I. Ethnic, religious, religious, religious, and regional wealth are beautiful reflections of our ancient common history, and the most powerful basis for the fact that we are equal citizens of our country and our country. Today, April 23rd, is one of the days when we feel our pluralist character from the spiritual feelings and historical unity that make us who we are. So, April 23rd is the day of unity, independence, solidarity. Dear friends, I regret to inform you that our Turkish National Assembly, representing our national sovereignty, has been asked to be custodyed many times, exposed to unfair attitudes, sometimes forced to be shut down. The Great National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the War of Liberation, the struggle against seven heifers, has repeatedly faced the coups of those who want to take the sovereignty from the nation. From the Republic, from the Republic, from the city, from the city of Demos, from the people, who wanted to protect the Parliament from the nation, and wanted to shadow the national sovereignty, but ultimately, the Turkish Parliament was restored to its original post. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] On this occasion, I thank you, Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, and all the MPs who fought for democracy. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Thank God for the democratic stability we've built in recent years, while Turkey has entered among the most prestigious countries in the world as a global power, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is among the most respected legislative bodies in the world. For the past ninety-five years, there has been no condition in its forehead, heart, and soul. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which includes the declaration, will always remain the Assembly of the nation, and will not be the custodian of any custody. Domination is the nation's own. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) No custody focus, no evil network can bring Turkey back from democracy, freedom, justice, compassion, compassion. The Republic of Turkey has taken historical steps to embrace all its citizens, and will not take a step back. Today, among the most powerful and respected countries in the world, Turkey is making a great effort to become the country of happy and happy people with 78 million citizens while the G20 countries are presidential. We wish everyone to be sure that we will maintain Turkey's future cause by carefully maintaining democratic stability. Our democratic will, our citizens, Turkey, in honor of the Grand National Assembly, the nation, the people, the citizens, no one will be able to cast a shadow on us from now on. With all our differences, we are one and all together. As different political parties, it is best for all of us to maintain and defend our nation's honor under the same roof. We represent the law of our people with his opposition, his power, by maintaining our differences, against any single form. By following this ideal, we will lead our people to be strengthened in every way, to develop democratic rights and freedoms in all areas. Dear friends, those who are now suffering a great deal from Yemen to Libya, Syria to Africa, and who have watched the atrocities of hundreds of innocent people who have been brutally murdered every day commit new hate crimes using the sufferings of this geography a hundred years ago. It is worrying and worrying for the future of Europe and mankind, when inter-religious, interethnic, interethnic struggle comes from institutions that need to maintain regional and global peace, such as the European Parliament, with provocative declarations and statements that want to open and bleed closed wounds. As a nation who paid a great price in the early 20th century, with 78 million of our citizens, along with all of our political parties and all of our elements, we reject and strongly incite slander and slander against our country. Those who develop a hate speech against Turkey will be embarrassed and answerable in front of history and humanity. We are a nation that has lived hundreds of years of understanding and whose countless beliefs have lived together for hundreds of years as brothers and sisters, showing the most successful example of pluralism in history. From Parliament to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the only thing to be seen when you look at the identities of members representing our citizens, their belonging to them is the fact that discrimination, monosemitism has been rejected. There is no other example of this pluralistic structure in the world. Forever, we will defend everyone's law and accept the highest value of maintaining human dignity. We, our own citizens first, will always defend the honor of mankind and be the bearers of justice. The wrongs of others will never lead us to injustice, as a nation, we will not give up on democracy as a nation, on human rights and freedoms, on the side of the oppressed, because we are aware that our Instigative War is not only a battle of honor, but also a struggle of honor by our beloved nation, but we will continue to act with the oppressors wherever there is a voice against imperialism and colonialism. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] By making sure that we have the same feeling as you, and we are working with you, working for the unity, unity and peace of all our citizens who live in the state of the Republic of Turkey. The essence of our internal policy, our foreign policy, is to want what we want for ourselves for someone else, to always be on the side of right and justice, always defending human honor as the highest value. With that feeling, I congratulate you all on April 23rd, giving our love and greetings to all the children of the world. May Allah not cause us to be united, and may He divide our republic for ever. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0003par0089	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, the second line belongs to the Republican People's Party's President and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İstanbul MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0004par0092	Mr. President, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my esteemed citizens who watch us at the head of television, let's take a quick look at April 23, 1920. Adana, Afyon, Ardahan, Artvin are occupied, under the control of the enemy forces of Aydın, Izmir and Istanbul are completely occupied. Adana, Antwerp, Urbana and Maraş are fighting a national battle. The cotton fields of Çukurova, the fertile lands of Thrace, the plains of West Anatolia are always occupied. Our ports, our existing industrial presence, transportation and communications centers, the most strategic areas of Turkey are under enemy control. A nation devastated and exhausted by 11 years of uninterrupted wars. The population is about 11 million. Two million people have malaria, over a million people have syphilis; tuberculosis, typhoid, flower, trahomal epidemics. There are cattle plagues in thousands of villages. Of every two babies born, one of them dies, unfortunately. Congress-i-Mebusan has been shut down, no government, no army, no weapons, no ammunition, no government. This is Turkey's view on the day of the opening of this Assembly on April 23, 1920. After that, endless wars, a unique struggle, a nation passing through the ring of fire, triumphs in unprecedented, difficult conditions. After that, endless revolutions, a new republic, a new constitution, modern laws, a brand-new economy, and a ever-growing, evolving Turkey. All these victories and breakthroughs were led by Mustafa Kemal. The decision of this Assembly was carried out as the work of this Assembly. Honourable lawmakers, we must remember that this great Assembly, which crowns the struggle for extinction with independence, is a Parliament with personality and identity. Mr. President has just stated that this Parliament is a veteran Congress because this Parliament has given the War of the National Liberation. This Parliament is a founding House because this Parliament has established a state. This Parliament is liberal, nationalist. Without a doubt, this House is a revolutionary Assembly. The glory of this House is great and great. Of course, they have titles, but there is one concept that we owe all the other qualities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to that feature that exists in its own survival chemistry. If not, that concept is called law. (CHP) This Parliament owes its existence to the nation and to the law. In this context, we have to understand the Anatolian and Rumeli Defense Law Society very well. The truth that must not be forgotten is that this House was founded to defend the people's law inside and out, and because it believes in the rule of law, it is a Parliament that has pulled us out of the darkness and brought us into the light over and over again. That's why this Congress has become a symbol of national sovereignty. Dear lawmakers, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk describes the importance of national sovereignty as saying: "It is absolutely impossible for people who have experienced so much pain to give their sovereignty to one person after this. Our nation has taken and used national sovereignty without anyone's permission. The kingdom of the nation is such a light that chains melt and crowns and thrones burn and burn in front of it. Yes, it is not possible for a nation that has experienced so much pain to give its sovereignty to a person after that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Honourable MPs are the nation that dominates this country, and the nation uses its sovereignty through institutions. Legislative, executive, and judicial are institutions in which one should work in a modern working department, not an opponent. These institutions form balance and control networks in democracy. The principle of separation of powers is to strengthen democracy and ensure the rights and the law of the nation, but unfortunately, we're having serious problems. Article 98 of our constitution states that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey uses the authority to oversee questions, research proposals, general talks, geneor, parliamentary investigations. See, valuable lawmakers, 11.436, from the questions proposed by the CHP MPs only in the 24th term, again, if 11.436 is not answered by the executive body, then we have a serious problem here...
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0005par0101	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0004par0102	...we're ignoring the law, which means the executive body doesn't recognize the legislature. I'd like to ask you clearly: would such a painting not compromise the dignity of this House? Dear lawmakers, we have a history of parliamentary democracy for about a hundred and fifty years. Parliamentary democracy is part of our social and political culture, but by September 12th coup laws, our parliamentary system has suffered deep injuries. Under coup laws, political parties were left to the leader's sultan, blocked by election dams and the real reflection of the national will to parliament, thus the Parliament could not maintain a healthy inspection. Especially one who sees the separation of the forces as a liability has cast a shadow on our democracy and on the dignity of the House. So much so that even Parliament's budget is restricted. (CHEERING) This view is unacceptable. Turkey is not a country that deserves a third-rate democracy. We have to change the coup law of September 12th and start a process that strengthens the parliamentary system based on the separation of forces, and it is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that will start this process. Dear MPs, the date of the democraticisation of the Republic of Turkey is also the date of defence and expansion of the powers of this Parliament. An understanding that seeks to remove the powers of this House, which sees parliament as a lawmaking factory, is the biggest obstacle to the development and deepening of our democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, we owe a debt to our children; we must leave them with a stronger, freer, richer Turkey. Therefore, the founders of this country declared April 23rd as National Sovereignty and Children's Day. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd) on behalf of the hopes that no child will go to bed hungry and live in a country where no child will go to bed, and I thank and thank you with mercy and gratitude. My respects to all of you, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0006par0110	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. In turn, it belongs to Mr. State Bahçeli, the chairman of the National Movement Party and the chairman of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Gardenie.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0007par0114	Mr. President, we are united today in a special union to celebrate the 95th anniversary of our Veteran Congress, which we are proud to serve under its roof, and to remember the memory of war with joy and pride. First of all, I salute your distinguished committee. My best wishes to our fellow saints who watch us at the beginning of their screens and take care of us with the heart of a ninety-five-year-old china. First of all, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a remarkable and reliable product of love for independence, the pursuit of legitimacy, respect for national will. With the first Assembly, a proud and clean page has been opened in Turkish history. Years of frustration, defeat, and withdrawal have struck the stone building in Ulus, and a brand-new resurrection fever, so to speak, has raised the Turkish nation. Without a doubt, the Grand National Assembly is a banner of hope against the tyrant, a source of courage against the traitor, a shower of excitement against the occupation, a bed of faith and determination against captivity, an oasis of democracy and sovereignty, an attack against attacks and hostile intentions. Our coven is the center and center of our epic struggle for salvation. In this framework, the yeast of our future is stolen here, and the moral and moral boundaries of our future are drawn here. The registration and declaration of our existence were made here, and the course of our dreams was set here. The Grand National Assembly is the reward of faith, the reward of fearless hearts. The Grand National Assembly is a spiritual contract sealed by the mind, justice, reconciliation, agreement and embrace with democracy. If a new state was born out of the ruins of our empire, if the destruction documents written from Mondros to Sevr have been torn out, if the Turkish nation has managed to meet around the same countries, then the honor of that belongs to the Grand National Assembly. The world views of the heroic mebuses of the First Assembly, the places where they were born, even their ethnic origins are different, but remember that they all merged in the great Turkish nation, believing in their cause, meeting in the common denominator of the country and the flag. The cold breeze of discrimination could not enter through the door of the House. The aims of separatism, the purpose of surrenderion, and its lustful and hidden intentions have not been able to approach the House. All members of the First Assembly, in one heart, scattered the dark sediment, corroded the enemies, conquered the despair, bound around the country and the nation. On a Friday (April 23, 1920), the Turkish homeland continued its historic march with more enthusiasm, either for will or death. The first meeting, which began in the old stone building in Ulus, with the participation of MPs who had reached Ankara, has announced that our nation's good fortune will be broken. Sinop Mebusu, the oldest member of the presidency, has translated the opening statement of the Sheriff's office into the sentiment of our nation and has announced its determination to live fully independent at the beginning. The First Assembly was aware of the damage, aware of the fatal wound. After about ten years of loss and destruction, the Ottoman government saw that it began to close its eyes, unable to recover from the heavy coma of the Ottoman Empire. As a matter of fact, the responsibility on the shoulders was great. Because there was a future for a country and a nation. Internal and external altars used every means to undermine, prevent, and promote the love of glowing independence and national awakening in Anatolia. There were no responsible people who thought of the Turkish nation, but there was no one who cared about Turkey. Our country, occupied by imperialists from one side to the other, was stable in its own way, in order to please the invaders and the anti-controversial campaigns conducted by the government of Istanbul. The endless games of the Freedom and Confiscation, the non-stop play of the Kurdish Teali and the Teadrum Society, the non-responsive propaganda of the Teali Islamic League, the corrupt noise of the Red Dagger Society and the dirty noise of the British League of Mobilities, and, ultimately, the non-violence of the occupied Sadrazam son-in-law, the illegitimate position of the King Farid, who had prayed for the success of the Greek army, and had lost the word of the word of the Teali Islamic Society, and the corrupt noise of the Turkish community, and all of the nation's destruction of the nation's inhabitants, the nation's hatred of the nation, and the destruction of the nation's community's non-emilitaric operation, has become a blind act of the future. In such a heavy environment, Gazi Mustafa Kemal set foot on Samsun, and struck the first spark of salvation. Then, in the heart of Anatolia, the nation's last resort to prayer, endurance, uprightness, and historical power, the seat of the sole representative of the national sovereignty, the Grand National Assembly. Our Holy Council has broken the traps, buried colonial targets. The sovereignty is completely and completely under the control and control of the nation. The Turkish nation boldly stepped in to guide its destiny. It's a disappointment to divide people, to divide our land, to dynamite the Turkish centuries that have happened, to anyone who has calculated it, and to continue that disappointment forever. My dear friends, I make it very clear that it is a weak and bankrupt psychology for those who have not heard in their hearts the suffering and disaster of millions of children forced to migrate from the Balkans, who have not felt the pain and suffering of the Armenian killers, who have not felt the pain of tens of thousands of innocent Muslims. In 1915, those who were accused of genocide, those who were cute, those who suffered a national loss of dignity to justify Armenian gangs, did not bring anything to this holy country yesterday, nor will they today. No matter what they call it, whether it's a job or a job, the Turkish nation has done its due in terms of its time, at least guaranteeing the century of our last homeland. Our nation no longer cares what people who rely on genocide lies say or how they decide. In addition, those who defame the parliamentary system where the Republic of Turkey is built on it are the first to be ineffable of the First Assembly. The proposal for regime and system change is a civil blow to the Republic of Turkey, but also an attempt to destroy and count the first Assembly. In Turkey's creation and survival, the only force in our country's withdrawal from the foreign Taassup is the entire great Turkish nation. What we need in today's environment is the First Assembly's will to fight, its ability to endure and overcome challenges. If we do so, the memory of the first coven in the nation's neighborhood, where the gaps of 1920 and the oil lamps light up, the tin stoves heat up, and the rankings from the schools, will then find its true value and its place. Dear lawmakers, the date of April 23rd, when our nation has taken the powers of sovereignty directly into its hands, is also celebrated as a holiday for our beloved children. I hereby celebrate the holiday of all our children. I pray to God that the 95th anniversary of April 23, 1920, when this feeling and thought began to be used by our beloved nation, was a blessing. It is with mercy and gratitude that we remember all of the first Assembly's mebuses, the founding heroes, and our noble martyrs who willingly put their lives on the line for the welfare of our country, especially Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, who entrusted us with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect, I salute our holy nation and your honorable delegation, who watch us at the beginning of their screens as I end my speech.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0008par0127	Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Group Leader, Deputy Group Chairman Bingöl MP İdris Baluken is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0009par0131	Mr. President, Mr. President, Honourable MPs, honored guests and dear children, I salute you all on behalf of myself and the Democratic Party of Peoples. I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of Turkey's people and all of our children's children. Dear lawmakers, ninety-five years ago, all the people of this land met with a common desire to live on the basis of equal citizenship. All the colors of Asia Minor, Mesopotamia, Thrace, all the colors of the land have united fates for a common future, an equal and free life. In Erzurum Congress, in the Sivas Congress, in the Amasian Protocols, in the Grand National Assembly established on April 23, 1920, and in the Constitution of 1921, there was an understanding that saw differences as wealth. Like a garden with a thousand flowers, representatives of the Grand National Assembly, without emphasis on any ethnicity, were present in this parliament with their own identities. The founding Parliament, the representative of the 1921 spirit, gave the self-government city councils broad powers, revealing the ability for all citizens to join the government, along with their differences. The principle of justice was based on pluralism, decentralisation and representation in the 1921 Constitution. Unfortunately, instead of this pluralistic and egalitarian understanding, however, the 1924 Constitution came with a singular, centralistic, and authoritarian understanding of governance. A democratic republic based on pluralism, which took you to the center, was thus wasted. A single ethnicity, a single race, a single belief, and this understanding that took the center of the state instead of the community has led to great suffering, great traumas, and social conflicts. At the rate all identities are united and the goal of free, common life has been damaged, the future imaginations of society have also suffered a great deal of damage. Dear lawmakers, we regret to inform you that 90 years of Parliament practice has not revealed a historical practice that eases the problems of this country, provides hope for tomorrow, guarantees basic, universal rights. This history, which has often been interrupted by military juntas, has unfortunately not revealed an approach or attitude that will act on its own will, which will bear the basis of its existence. These coups that have become the source of many social and individual tragedies in our distant and recent history, and the central state mind, which has ignored social will, unfortunately, is still continuing its activity. Although the Constitution, which is already in effect, is the work of juntamen and the Parliament has not made a civil constitution in 33 years, it is the most important evidence and also the greatest embarrassment of our findings. Our basic social contract is still the product of a coup d'état, and as a result of this mind, the will of the people is still being eliminated. It is still a great shame that the 10 per cent dam, which has been created in this country to keep all kinds of opposition dynamics out of parliament, is still in effect. At the same time, the political parties who defend the dams for the sake of national will and stability, despite the demand of an important part of society to gain representation in parliament on the basis of equal citizenship, still stand before us today as a source of great shame. Remember, in this country, military coups were carried out in the name of national will and stability. In this country, we want to express that this antidemocratic stance on behalf of national stability, which is trying to keep Kurds, Alevis, workers, workers, workers, women, all who are oppressed outside the House, is not going to be a shareholder. The use of budgetary resources collected by public taxes by political parties who are satisfied with the establishment of this country remains a stain that should be removed from the history of this country as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, we are a country that lives almost entirely on the typical results of the coup constitution. A system where no concrete steps have been taken on freedom of the press, where censorships and bans have been maintained in the name of the state, where different beliefs and cultures have been ignored, where everyone pledges to a fictional state religion, women's rights to equal citizenship are not recognised, workers, workers' rights have been revoked, and all these problems have been collected and our future is destroyed by our children. Dear children, it is a burden for us to speak to you from a country where you are again victimized every day, sentenced to poverty and violence on the streets, where your rights are seized, you pay the biggest bill of wars, you're thrown into prisons, you're harassed, you're raped, you're talking to us from a world. We'd like to offer you all the beauty of the universe, and we'd like to talk about developments that would instill beautiful dreams, and we'd like to call out from a world where there's no poverty, no violence, no war and no destruction, but, unfortunately, there's nothing more we can say today than the struggle for the days to come. In this context, celebrating the holiday of the children of a country whose future is wanted to be blackened gives us a deep sadness. Today, at the same time, it was given to you children with our future and hope, but unfortunately we know that as we address you now from here, thousands of you are away from a warm home on the street, forced to work under heavy means of livelihood, forced to get married at the age of children, and your rights of education have been taken away from you. We are aware that those of you who have the chance to continue to study have been left under intense ideological pressure, without their native language, in the wheel of a test-centered, memorizing, unqualified, marketing education. Thousands of your age who still think of life as a playground are locked up in prisons as political prisoners, obsessed with the seriousness of the state. Due to the approach of the political responsible under this roof, we would like to express our regret that many of you are now in prison under inhumane circumstances, being subjected to abuse, harassment, rape, and torture. We know that you Syrian children, who were forced to leave their homes, their homes, in the streets, in the cold, in the open, because of the civil war of those who were older than you, have been delivered to the misery of the self-righteous people. I'd like to stress again from here that our only consolation is the struggle for free and equal tomorrows that we've grown the hope of. Our only consolation is that we can tell you that there are elders in this country and in the world who are struggling to leave you with beautiful tomorrows. Dear lawmakers, our children have been the greatest victims of poverty. Our children who are condemned to live on the street, their faint eyes are shaking the foundations of our future dreams. The calluses in the hands of each of our children, half-starved in the field, are causing our consciences to become more hardened as a society. The cries of every child who's malnourished, abused, and malnourished, shoot us out of our humanity. No one can claim that we will dream of tomorrow without fighting this reality, without the effect of poverty and poverty on our children who have destroyed the future by the root. That our children don't have to work... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that they were not forced to marry at an early age; that they could receive equalist, broke, qualified, liberal scientific education; that they were involved in decision-making mechanisms; that all our children were equal, free, happy, and healthy. Our children suffered the greatest pains of war and destruction during this period. Every bullet that was lodged in Uður Kaymaz's body left an unresolved mark on the heart of all the children living in Edirne. The hearts of the children who lived in every part of this land were as broken as the parts of the mother of Ceylan Önkol. When all the children of the world were slaughtered, Berkin Elvan began to doubt a slice of bread they had eaten. The children's bodies that were torn apart at Roboski have clearly revealed the problem of child safety facing children all over the world. We all have the plague of Muharrem, who carried his father's body in a bag two years ago when he died of cold in Koniah. For the oppressed of this land, the destroyed, the hope of our children's beautiful tomorrows has always been in us, in our hearts. Our resistance at the factory was for our children, and we always thought they'd come when we resisted the HESES, the nukes, and we described our children's right to free citizenship through their roots as we defended their right to education in the native language. Now we fight to give them an honorable peace to the children of this country. At this point, history has placed great responsibility for our common future on all of us. We know it's still not too late for anything. The common will that builds this country has a historical role in building our future.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0010par0147	Mr. Baluken, I beg you, I've given you two or two and a half more minutes than you've agreed, so please finish it, because you've made the decision, so it would be an injustice; please.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0009par0148	I'll put you through, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers say that we are primarily facing the responsibility of building a democratic and pluralistic constitution by removing all obstacles to democracy and human rights, and that the parliamentary system must be dealt with along with democratic functioning, and that this Parliament is obliged to build a free and democratic future for both our people and our children, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0010par0151	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. It now belongs to the leader of the Anadolu Party and the Ankara MP, Mr. Emine Gültur Tarhan. Your time is three minutes, Mr. Tarhan. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0011par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. The great revolutionary Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has now made me address you from the stand, had left the shallow waters and taken a difficult journey, and had established the sovereignty of the people for the first time in this land with his man and his woman. We'll be with their kids today, we'll all be with those kids all day. Do you remember what they said on April 23rd, when they asked you to forgive their sins in a single prayer, you could put those children on their seats and hang them or cut them off? I will tell them not to hang or cut, for I have seen children die, and women die because of those who are eager to hang, and cut, and who die because of the myth; and I have seen mothers weep for their children's children, who were killed with kicks, who were shot with a gas flare. With them the earth wept, and the sky wept, and the walls wept; as if all the living things were with them. I've never seen such terrible, horrible moments. He lost a piece of his life, the light of his eye, which he couldn't bear, even when they were like that to his other son, who was sticking his head against his chest, the mother could still say, "Don't worry, son. Don't worry, don't worry. I've seen it. Yes, this country has suffered more than killing, hanging, cutting, burning. I'll tell those who are very interested in cutting heads off, against those who play bloody games inside and outside, not spite, not violence, but love. I'll tell the vindictive men to follow the 400 ordermen, to stand up to those who have turned red and polarized them, to those who can't control their nature, to those who can't control their nature, to those who are burning in the name of didictatorship, dictatorship. In spite of them, I'll tell them he's fallen a thousand times, but he's stood up a thousand times, keep your freedoms, boys. I'll tell those who think that sitting with a boy and a girl is a derailment, teach them a lesson in your innocence, shake them up, bring them back to life. They did everything for their benefit, they got rich, and I'm gonna tell them that they wanted to share in this crime by making it look like they were poor, and they voted without pity. I'm going to yell "terrorist terrorist" and say they negotiated with terrorism, and I'm going to say don't take it seriously. A healthy education system, an independent, moral justice, when we had a chance to rebuild the republic's brotherhood, I'd say it was because of them that he kidnapped them all. But Turkey isn't just for you guys, it's really not just for you, it's young... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...would have been an example for the Middle Easterners, everything would have been better, but not for now. But, wait, don't worry, I'll say that the adventures of those who try to make new Ottomanism in palaces are over with a dash of minaret dust and drum shadow. He was the leader of the Middle East, the caliph, the past. They can twist the past as much as they want and try to erase our memories, and I'll say they'll never, ever destroy our gains. Alas, those who dwell in their dwellings will not wash away what they want to destroy; they will be the past. We've had the taste of enlightenment, equal citizenship, being a woman, and I'll say it's the past. Those who can't keep up with the new Ottomanism, now go to another door and find other currents to play with. Ask them, children, ask them, and I'll say it's time for you to ask questions.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0012par0159	Mr. Tarhan, your time is up, and I've given you an extension, so please welcome the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0011par0160	I'm finishing, Mr. President, I'm finishing. They won't get an answer, but they'll ask, and they won't be afraid. I'll say, "Remember the sun after a cold winter's night on Asia Minor, children." I'll kiss your eyes. Happy holidays, boys. I'll say never forget the pure heart that gave it to you.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0013par0164	I'd like to thank Mr. Tarhan, Chairman of the Anatolian Party. Electronic Democracy Party Co-Chair and Ankara MP Mehmet Emrehan Halici. Mr. Halici, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0014par0167	Mr. President, Mr. President, members of lawmakers and distinguished guests, I salute you all on behalf of the Electronic Democracy Party as I begin my remarks, and give a heartfelt congratulations to our people's National Sovereignty and Children's Day. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is perhaps the most private and revolutionary parliament in the world. We are the first and only nation in the world to establish its parliament before its government. At first, I would like to honor and cherish the founder and first President Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all the MPs who have served in the First Assembly. April 23, 1920 is not just the opening date of our House. It is also a history of a reorganisation of the relationship between the nation and the state and the redefined political sovereignty. The essence of democracy is written on the wall behind us from the First Assembly: "The government is a unconditional nation." And in countries that embrace democracy, the nation uses its authority through its elected MPs. Political science calls it a non-committal democracy. It was inevitable to bring citizens together all the time, to take their thoughts, to make their decisions, to actually, physically impossible, the power of attorney and proxy system, but today, thanks to technological advances, these improbabilitys have been eliminated. Millions of people from all over the world have the ability to use computers, cell phones, Internet, and so on to share their thoughts, writings, images, sounds, with other millions, even billions, at every hour of the day. What better opportunity could there be for an intermediary, no-management democracy, that is, for the public to really rule itself? But unfortunately, both in the world and in our country, political institutions don't use these developments enough, they don't benefit enough. The public's contribution to democracy is nothing more than going to the polls every four years. We founded the Party of Electronic Democracy in an effort to eliminate this gap and to achieve a direct democracy. Not only do we call our citizens to vote, we call, choose, rule and control. We call, we perform a first in Turkey, and we transport all of the political processes into the electronic medium. I sincerely believe that we will be reunited with the bureaucracy of parties, the political media, the delegates, on the next 23 Aprils, where any citizen can put weight on politics and, therefore, Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe that the three-term mandates that I am honored to serve in Turkey's Grand National Assembly and similar parliaments will certainly change shapes, and that citizens will join the country's administration, not through the MPs, but in a form of governance by which they personally participate in decisions in electronic environments. Dear lawmakers, on April 23rd, we hand over our seats to our children. So, we're supposed to prepare them for the future. I wish instead of trying to make our children look like us, we could imitate their curious, free, creative world, not see political life as a battle of strife, but as a service race of interest and love. I congratulate you all, and salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-04-23sit01spe0015par0177	[[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Thank you, Mr. Halici. Talks on private agendas are complete. Dear MPs, we have friends who are with us today, unfortunately, when we begin our 24th term work. During this period, we lost Harun Çakır, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, Şerafettin Elçi, Murat Bozlak. I remember them, and all of them, who have served under this roof since April 23, 1920, and all of them who have died, and those who have passed away, with mercy, and with respect, and with gratitude; and may God have mercy on all of them. Dear friends, the merger that we are performing today is the final combination of the 24th term, and we are at the end. So, in this 24th term, I was president with a fault. I thank you, Mr. Presidents, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, members of our political parties, members of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Parliament, members of our party's group, commissioners, and members of the committee, all of our deputies, NGOs, and, without a doubt, all the administrative agencies and employees who have worked with us in the public of our Parliament. Dear friends, I wish you all a happy, peaceful, successful life with your families. I hope the results of the parliamentary general election on June 7, 2015 will be good for our country. I wish that the Regaip Kandili, which we understand today, will bring blessings to all of you, our nation and the Islamic world, and all of humanity. According to the decision made on Sunday (June 7, 2015), the 5th day is 15 p.m., which follows the declaration of Turkish radio and television by the Supreme Election Board of the final results of the 25th Parliament's Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's 25th term General Elections. I'm closing the meeting at 00. My respects to all of you.
