tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz, who asked for a comment on Energy Savings Week. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top commitment to Energy Savings and Energy Efficiency Week. I would like to begin by welcoming your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screen, with love, respect, and conversation. Energy consumption is at the head of riveting elements in the development of countries. In fact, one of the most important parameters to show the level of development of countries is the amount of energy consumed per person. The leaders of the country and the energy sector have to offer the energy needed by society and the economy to consumers in line with the environment -- sufficient, continuous, quality, low cost, and the environment. As a result of our country's economic development and growing prosperity over the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in demand in all areas of the energy sector. Turkey has been the fastest energy demand growth in the country's economy in the past decade, among the OECD countries, the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, and has been the second largest economy in the world since 2002, with the highest demand growth in electricity and natural gas since China. So, to reduce energy dependency in energy, to meet the increase in energy demand at twice the amount of energy in 2023, we, the AK PARTI authorities, are constantly moving through a revolutionary project in the energy sector day and night, and we are going to continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share a few of these works with you in particular. We've opened the way for private sector investments in energy, we've raised the private sector share of 34 per cent in 2002 to 70 per cent, we've increased the oil search to 9 times the power of wind energy from 19 megawatts to about 3,000 megawatts. In 2002, we raised the geothermal board power of 17 megawatts to 246 megawatts. Again, we've delivered our combined power at hydropower plants at 12,240 megawatts to 23.500 megawatts. We've increased our power-powered power constantly, and our production of 129 billion kilowatts has drawn to 259 billion kilowatts. We introduced Turkey to natural gas from beginning to end. The natural gas used in about five cities in 2002 is used in almost all the cities of our country today, especially with our projects in recent years. Again, in 2002, we reached up to 82,000 kilometers of natural gas transmission and distribution lines, which were 44,000 kilometers. We're building two nuclear power plants, and we're going to activate two nuclear power plants by 2023. The Japanese government agreed on 3 May 2013 to build the 2nd nuclear plant in Mersin Akkuyu and Sinop Province. Turkey in the Caucasus-Hazar-Middle East intersection, which has 65 per cent of the world's fossil-based energy sources, once had gas, and we drank its desperation as a policy? Turkey is both a bridge and terminal in reaching world markets for production of the Middle East and Central Asia, both geographically and geopolitically. As you all know, we've done a lot of big projects on this minor. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we bridged east and west by signing major projects with energy diplomacy. In 2007, we put the Energy Efficiency Law into place to achieve the increase in production with energy efficiency, and we carried out the mandatory regulations that encouraged efficient use of energy resources. Despite all our work, we're still 70 percent dependent on energy. So, in addition to using all kinds of energy sources to minimize increased energy demand, I would like to add to three main topics how important energy efficiency and savings are: First title, transportation. If we prefer public transportation instead of individual driving, we save an average of 15 percent. So the AK PARTI governments are bringing to life all kinds of projects, such as subways, subways, trams, and fast trains for public transportation. Insulation in buildings: especially in natural gas, which is the largest part of our imported pencils -- especially because we use it as a heating system in housing -- if we go to savings, we will save close to 30 percent. And finally, the lighting. Especially in lighting, if we use LEDs in lights in houses, housing, workplaces, malls, streets, parks, savings lights, we believe that if the washing machine, refrigerators, and so on are also very efficient, we will be able to save a lot of money. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I'd like to say, finally, the most expensive energy is the waste of energy, and the cheapest energy is the saving energy. With these feelings, I salute you all and your grand delegation with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (During the winter season) who wants to talk about transportation problems in the village roads. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to transportation problems in the country's roads in the winter. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as in Turkey every year, the winters we are in are cold and hard because of heavy snowfalls throughout the country this year. As a result, our citizens face difficult conditions in transportation, health, education, housing and many other areas. The winter months pass in heavy snow throughout Turkey and especially in the eastern regions. The public faces major problems, especially in the rural areas of our dense rain zones, for reasons that are difficult to transport, for reasons such as the immediate and comprehensive execution of road-making efforts. As a result, human tragic dramas occur from time to time, as well as material losses. Because of the snowfalls, especially animal producers and farmers have suffered major financial losses, such as the farmers who recently suffered major losses from their crops in the over-falling snowfalls in the district of Akhisar, Manisa. Dear lawmakers, news of citizens who have lost their lives almost every year, in winter months, patients who are carried by sleighs, women who are forced to give birth on snow roads, who have been unable to reach the hospital because there is no transportation. The most tragic example of this was that last year, in February, three-year-old Muharrem Taş, who had been sick in Çeli merra in the village of Yalinca in the District of Gürpınar, Van. He died because the roads were closed, and was carried in a sack on his father's back. Precious MPs, Bingöl, Bitlis, Dersim, Van, Şırnak, Hakkari, Mush, Kars, Ağrım, Erzurum, Erzincan, Iğdır, many more of our provinces are left facing these landscapes every year because of climate and geographical conditions. While it is clear that these paintings, created by heavy snowfalls and the combination of cold weather and have a negative impact on life, will occur when necessary measures are not taken, it is not acceptable not to develop specific solutions to the solution of the problem, not to take the necessary measures on time. The old lack of power lines, the lack of clean drinking water systems, and the lack of village roads in areas where the snowfalls are intense, are combined with particularly difficult conditions of winter months, and the public's victims are increasing onefold. Dear lawmakers face problems each year that affect life, such as losing their lives or permanent health problems, because they are unable to reach health care services for dozens of patients, pregnant women, elderly, and children who are in need of care. The elementary school, which has been forced to travel from one village to another every day as a result of transportation problems, is severely failing the education of secondary school students. Dear lawmakers, EC PARTI spokesman do not always mention villages without roads when talking about double roads. We know that there is heavy snow in these areas every year at the same time, and we know that many villages in the region are still not asphalted, and many of the village roads are in a tight spot where the two vehicles are unable to cross side by side. On top of these inadequate roads, when heavy snow is added, our people, who live in villages, are left with their fate in some way. It is not acceptable for citizens to be left to their own destinies, such as the founding of villages without roads in Turkey, the not being cleared of snow for weeks, the most basic rights of their citizens, electricity, clean water, health, education, and nutrition. When we think about these things at a time when technology and resources are so advanced, we expect them to address all of our ministers, especially our Prime Minister, to immediately activate all kinds of technical equipment and personnel regarding the important problems of our people living in the villages and end this ordeal by taking preventive measures. And also, in this sense, I expect our citizens to take the necessary steps towards the satisfaction of the damage they've suffered, and with those feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third non-responsored statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise of cadastro studies and bait plants. I salute you all. Dear friends, before we begin my words, you know our region is experiencing very heavy winter conditions -- type, snow, storm, main roads, village roads are completely closed, but there is no help from the state and the government, and we have no means of transportation. Yesterday, he was trapped between Ardahan and Lake, my skater, for four hours. So you think about the rest. No vehicles, no tools. So if Ardahan has left Ardahan, this government, if this state has abandoned it, brother, let's act accordingly. I mean, we really don't know what's going on. Our water's cut, we're freezing, our water's not running, our patients are dying on our way, my friends. For roads to open in that sense, the equipment must be sent immediately. Two: Still in the 21st century, Ardahan still burns 40 percent of the people in the center, friends. The natural gas runs through us, and we burn the turd. We're burning a turd with zero calories. Look, Posof, Damal, Hanak, Ardahan, Mad, We risk the lake; natural gas passes, crude oil pipelines pass. And yet there's still only half of the natural gas at our place. We're asking for 50 percent discounted natural gas, and we're asking for it. Other than that, my dear friends, the power goes out a lot. Yeah, he's a pain in the ass. This is a Kiler group, another group, no Aras ADAŞ, no staff. Because of lack of personnel, every day all our villages are in the dark, people's refrigerators, washing machines, televisions are broken, broken. In that sense, I request that the power be cut off, sent to the power company, and taken care of. Other than that, dear friends, I'm afraid we don't have a decent payment for vegetation in our area right now. We have 13.842 farmers in Ardahan. They're going to get $14 million in total. There's diesel and fertilizer, over 7 million, and there's another $6 million in vegetation. This money needs to be paid immediately. Snow and winter, people can't feed their animals, they can't get along. These coins must be paid immediately; I beg you, pay this January. But beyond that, there are villagers who can't take advantage of these vegetations. It's a shame for the AKP. Why is it a shame? A Mukhtar came with me, held a press conference here. At this press conference, the village for sale said, "He's put his village up for sale." Why? He can't get direct income support money, so he can't get gas money, he can't get fertilizer money, he can't get food plants money. For a thousand and four hundred years, there is a village, and a village of Derethe, and a village of Durançam, neither of them has a deed. Now, these villagers say: "We, my brother, are we not citizens, do we not pay taxes, send troops to this country? Why are we not paid directly for income support? Why aren't we paid for diesel money?" They don't have a deed? There was no deed to the peasant as the cadastro passed. Yeah, I've been fighting for 12 years, I've proposed the law three times, they've refused, I've filed a question motion... The villagers, the people, they're staying there, they're struggling, friends, let's give away the deeds of these people and let these people take advantage of this place and get their direct income support money, their fertilizer money. Both Durancham and Dereway villagers are watching me right now. The peasant's really a mess. Now, the villagers in Hanak... look, they've done cadastro studies. The cadastro studies weren't done properly. Not only in Hanak, but in the lake, and in the wild, and in Damal, and in Posof, but in the midst of it, they have mixed it up; and no one can receive good money. Now, look, I don't have the time -- I don't have the time -- but we have 1,900 villagers, farmers, 1,200 villagers don't take advantage of direct income support. So, for example, for example, I'm going to give you an example: 130 people have applied in the village of Sazliyir, and they've accepted nine people. 47 of the sun's inhabitants have applied, and seven have been accepted. 80 people from his lovely village have applied, and they've accepted 30 people. So, in the village of the Late, in the Rye, in the Hunters, in the Binbakak, in the Yamaçlı, in the Surakır, in all the villages. Immediately, send personnel immediately, and let them be identified, pay for our peasants, farmers, and let the people not grieve in the snow, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who have entered the system. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, our country's locomotive, tax champion, is a city that is only a victim of service. Although there are 8.1 missing fugitives in electricity worldwide, 6.2 in the European Union, 6,1 in the Renegade, and 61 are the least missing number of our country's fugitives. However, when we look at the ministry, before and after Christmas, before and after we go very far, we see in the neighborhoods and villages that the electricity is out for 48 hours, 78 hours due to the snowfall. Cartepe, Gölcuk, Başiskele, Bay, Kandıra districts also have a heating problem. The fact that he has recently turned into a luxurious life under candlelight also reveals the fact that the AKP's light bulb no longer illuminates the Bigeli, nor Turkey. I'm saying that all of Turkey has surrendered three centimeters of land, and I'm saying that the measure must be taken at once.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0007par0059	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Aydınlıoğlu...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. On the way from Balıkesir to Ankara last night, our CHP MP Mr. Haluk Ahmet Güşthisar had an accident near Eşisar in his car, so he was taken to the hospital and was transferred to Ankara Metropolitan University after the first treatment was taken. When we visited him in the morning, we found three broken ribs, three or four broken teeth, resting on a ventilator. It's not life-threatening, but our friend's had a really big accident. I hereby bid Haluk Ahmet Silver Bey, his family, and the CHP community get well. I hope he recovers as soon as possible. Again, because of the huge snowfall last weekend, some animal roofs have collapsed, especially in the districts of Balıkesir, Bigadic, Borders and Dursunbey, especially in large and small animal roofs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll also identify the damage and send help from AFAD. We'll try to heal the wounds. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. We wish Mr. Silver a speedy recovery, and hope that he recovers as soon as possible. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. President, my fellow deputies, I would like to point out that I condemn yesterday's attack on a comic magazine in Paris, France, and the death of 12 people. This massacre, using the name of our Prophet, Islam, is a clear attack on all mankind by our prophet Muhammad (SAV), who was sent to the world as a messenger of mercy and peace. In other words, this attack is a direct attack on our great religion, Islam, and Muslims of our religion. This attack is not an acceptable act in the name of our Prophet, nor in the name of Islam, and I would like to point out that I strongly condemn it.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0010par0076	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. And we strongly condemn this attack. The idea can never be destroyed by algebra, violence, cannon, rifle. We say that we have always condemned all attacks against Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the idea. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. 1,900,000 pensioners, 8.9 million workers and BUG-KUR pensions have been given a 2.3 per cent increase by the government to 11 million pensioners. The reason is that inflation has been estimated at 2.33 per cent in the last six months of 2014. I'm asking government officials: On average, there's a 10 percent increase in taxes; there's a 15 to 25 percent increase in electricity, water; there's a 15 to 20 percent increase in basic food growth; there's even a 8.5 percent inflation rate of the Central Bank; I'd like to thank the pensioners for this -- the big bonus in the nail. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0014par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, the Ministry of National Education took a written examination on 29 December 2013 to appoint branch managers for 1,709 empty staff members under the Upsite Rule, which included about 40,000 teachers. The Ministry of National Education has interviewed 5,913 people who have won the written exam and has appointed 1,709 as branch manager after their interview on 16 April 2014, but it has been decided that they will not be able to make the appointment based on their oral examination. Unfortunately, in his defence here on Tuesday, the Minister stated that a significant portion of the cases filed against the Ministry were in his favor and misinformation the House. Cases filed are lawsuits for the content of the oral exam. So, as a result of the lawsuit brought by Turkish Education-SEN (Turkish Education)... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the decision made by the court and Ankara 17. I say the ruling of the Supreme Court must be carried out immediately, and I call the authorities on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0015par0094	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0016par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today are the memorials of Metin Gökepeh, who was taken into custody and died as a result of police violence just 19 years ago. It has been 19 years, but the attacks on journalists in Turkey continue at all pace today, with all kinds of insults and especially police violence and research, from what journalists write and in their environment. In person of Metin Gökpe, I salute all the journalists who have lost their lives and all the journalists who have suffered any unjust attacks.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. As head of the Turkish-Bulgaria Friendship Group, I have recently observed with concern and regret that the attacks on Muslim mosques have increased by racist formations in Bulgaria. Finally, the mosque was damaged by the arson attempt to pour flammable material into the wooden parts of the mosque on Friday. These attacks are unacceptable in terms of freedom of faith, human rights and civil rights. I hope that Bulgarian government officials will take effective measures against those who orchestrate such attacks. Criminals must be punished by being caught. I hereby condemn the attack on the comic magazine in France. Once again, these events have been painfully confirmed that terror can't have religion or nationality and can't be tolerated. It turns out that everyone has to learn from these events and do much more for peace, justice, and sharing in the world. I wish you well, Mr. Haluk Bey, our Balıkesir MP, who was in an accident.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. As we all know, we're having a heavy winter as a country. So far, our fellow lawmakers, whose location has been off-the-book, have stated that the cities of our friends have been cut off due to snow, that the roads are blocked. I think that the situation in Sivas is heavier than the painting in Turkey, especially in the villages of Kangal, Divricik, Imranlı and Zara, there is no electricity for three or four days, the village roads are closed. There are more elderly and sick in our villages this time of year. Unfortunately, so far, there are no representatives of the government in the General Assembly Hall. It seems that we are having a very heavy winter throughout the country, from Ardahan, from Kars, all the way from Alexandria, including Sivas. I urge the government to take immediate precautions on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0022par0117	Mr. President, privatisation of maintenance and salting operations on land roads also leads to the decomposition of thousands of government-owned business machines, while, on the other hand, neglect of road maintenance and repairs in difficult winter runs. This causes long-term closures of interstate roads connecting cities and villages in snowfalls and numerous traffic accidents. 11,000 business machines are being thrown out in inventory of the General Directorate of Highways. In the state, the land roads entrusted to the subcontractors are closed for a long time after snowfall, especially when the machinery and machinery are left to rot. Ice-cold, unsalted roads produce accidents that invite death. Unfortunately, modern anti-profits are being abandoned. Modern anti-profit vehicles within the General Directorate of Highways are left to rot in branch chiefs, construction sites and district centers. Car taxes, insurance premiums, medical fees are paid every year for these vehicles that don't work. However, all around Turkey, our roads are snowed in...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0021par0119	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Ulupınar...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0023par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on 7/1/2013, we lost eight mining brothers in the collapse caused by the explosion of methane gas at the Zonguldak Kozlu Company. On the second anniversary of this accident, I once again ask God's mercy on our martyrs, for his grieving relatives, for their patience, and for their condolences. Inshallah, I salute the General Assembly with the hope that these and such accidents will never happen again. I'm telling our congressman friend to get well soon, God bless him.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0024par0125	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. In the province of Tokat, Erbaa, Niksar, Reshadiye, Başçiftlik, Almus districts are closed at around 130 villages. People are calling us and asking for roads to open. Plus, the power goes out from time to time. From here, I bring up the subject, I invite the interested ones on the mission. Second: Agriculture and water products engineers who graduated from their schools in our country suffer a great deal because they are not appointed. These people are expected to receive immediate openings and appointments for the removal of their victims. We invite the government on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0027par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Gökçealan in Selçuk district of İzmir Province, there is a license issued by the Ministry of Energy to build a quarry. We have a very famous village with grapes, figs, olives and olive oil. With this quarry built there, the resources of our peasants will be completely destroyed, and agriculture and agriculture will be eliminated here. Again, the license issued in the village of Karakuyu in Menderes district opens the quarry and gravel. Especially the Wooden Dam, where the Izmir water feeds - it will do a great deal of damage, and the olive groves here and the agriculture here will be destroyed. Again, with the license issued in the village of Akalan in Kemalpaşa district, agriculture and agriculture in this region will be destroyed, the future of our people here is being destroyed with stone furnaces and clay furnaces. Once again, I invite the Ministry of Environment to be sensitive about this. We don't just want the city ministry to do it, we want the environment ministry to do it. We ask that these licenses are issued with the obligation to submit the CED report and not be given such licenses, and we invite them to the post. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0028par0141	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. First, as our CHP MP friend has had an accident, I ask God for a cure and wish him well from here. Secondly, a speaker friend specifically told me that there was no natural gas in East Anatolia, as far as I can tell. Last year, there was a law that the AK PARTI governments passed in the bag of legislation, which was written in Article 117, which had previously been done by the state's hand, but to Article 117, which, of course, was an offer we made with 3 AK PARTI MPs and our group. In the next three times, if the Energy Market Board doesn't make a tender and participate in non-rantabil contractors, then the Energy Market Board will do the infrastructure for them with the government's hands. So, in the future, I think we had these kind of non-rantabular projects, seven counties, and then, with the next process, our governments will do the infrastructure by the state and then distribute this gas to our citizens. I wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0030par0148	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0031par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. I also condemn the incident in Paris, France, for the sake of mankind. A bill on criminal execution institutions has been issued to second-in-command executives working at criminal execution institutions. The second managers, who are on the payroll of the finance as the office manager, who are second manager in the business classification, are reduced to assistant manager status through the bill. It's lowering the rights of salary and equity. Also, a given right is being rescinded. A legal right cannot be revoked. How does our government feel about that? Second thing: they want to meet students who teach 5,000 classrooms. In the second semester, we demand that the government take care of it, take care of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0032par0156	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0033par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 12 people were killed yesterday in Paris, France, with magazine writers among them in the attack on the comic magazine Charlie Hebdo. As the People's Democratic Party, we strongly condemn this attack on Paris. We offer our condolences to the people of France, the French press and all humanity. In the Middle East, those who shed the blood of Kurds, Arabs, Asuri-Syrians, Turkmen, many ethnic communities and faiths and massacres appeared yesterday and today in Paris. We repeat here that this network of massacres has continued to attack cultures, beliefs and people around the world, to attack freedom of press and expression, to fight these networks in Turkey, in the Middle East and in Europe, especially in Kobani and Shengal, that all beliefs, peoples and cultures must be organized in terms of self-defense. We are also experiencing the 19th anniversary of the massacre of journalist Metin Gökpe. Metin Gökpe was detained by police and tortured to death on January 8, 1996. Unfortunately, the killing, arrests, and pressure against media and press workers in Turkey have never ended after the massacre of Metin. While we live in our struggle for the memory of Metin Skype, we once again express that we will focus on freedom of press and expression and continue to fight against the feelings of the press workers who are throwing up death and arrest. We also wish the Republican People's Party's Party Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Güzülş, who was in a car accident yesterday, and the entire Republican People's Party community, well-being.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 19th year of his departure, we long to remember Metin Skype, but today we regret that no progress has been made in the name of freedom of the press. Çorum is the third province in Turkey in terms of the number of villages, with more than 750 villages. The road of 750 villages is closed because of the snow that has rained for the past three days. The village close to this has no electricity, and the malfunctions can't be repaired. I mean, it's certainly important to make double roads, but it's even more important to keep the existing roads open. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0036par0170	Thank you, Mr. Köse. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the CIT Commission. With all due respect, I do. 07/01/2015 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three general consultation motions, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey to assess the effects and consequences of changes in the countries of North Africa and the Arab Spring. With all due respect. A Tunis citizen named Mohammed Boaziz, who graduated from college in Tunisia, who works as an unemployment salesman, burned himself and lost his life because of the theft of his stand by police officers and caused public riots that affected some countries in North Africa and the Middle East. First, Tunisian President Zeynel Abidin Bin Ali was forced to abandon his post and flee the country as a result of a public uprising. Then the riots reached Egypt. President Hosni Mubarak's 40-year-old power has been concluded as a result of major demonstrations throughout Egypt, particularly the country's capital, Cairo. The Arab Spring process, which has had a domino effect in North Africa and the Middle East, has jumped from here to Libya. The 42-year period of Muammar Gaddafi was completed on October 20, 2011, after NATO's intervention (North Atlantic Treatment Organization - the North Atlantic Treaty Organization), which was adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 17 March 2011. The Arab Spring's next stop was protesting against President Bezar Assad in Syria, which led to extremely bloody incidents, which started a major mix-up in the country. In the process, countries such as Moritania, Bahrain, Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon and Yemen were also affected by the Arab Spring process because of protests. People living in the Middle East and North Africa have also been re-designed by large forces of Turkey's care, which have also been fed by riots, including the lack of democracy in the desired standards, economic corruption, the limitations of freedom of expression. The Arab Spring has also changed economic activities and domestic dynamics in the region, as it has set the stage for the change of political staff after the elections of the heads of many countries after being forced to give up their duties. Besides, in some countries, such as Syria, conflicts have reached the extent of civil war. In Syria, the United States, the EU, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar took the position against Bezar Assad. Prime Minister Erdogan's description of what happened in Syria at the beginning of August 2011 alerted Turkey's impact on the crisis and the change in the region destabilised it, which also affected Turkey. One of the reasons why terrorism has increased so much is that the region has evolved into a more complex structure. Wanting to benefit from the unstable environment in Syria, the PYD wants to be an alternative force to Assad's and opponents, to benefit from this mess by providing its own control zone. Given the recent orders of terrorist leader Abdullah Ocalan, the establishment of an army of 15,000 people in Syria, Syria seems to have entered a highly problematic period. In this critical period, after the operation of Hammer Power in Iraq, the Kurdish formation in the north of the 36th parallel became a structure that strengthened its autonomy after the invasion of Iraq in 2003, separated from the central government, and practiced independence. Sadly, a similar process in Iraq is unlikely to take place in Syria. The preparations for the four-part ACK project, intended for Turkey, Iran, Syria and Iraq, will thus reach an advanced point. In addition, the turmoil in Syria, where Turkey shares its longest border, has laid the groundwork for the passage of many illegal and illegal refugees to Turkey, and the public is concerned that more than 100,000 refugees have caused various problems in our country. In view of all that has happened, the new order of changes in the Arab Spring process needs to be understood as to the consequences of the riots in the region and in our country, and what consequences. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, which is geographically shaped and surrounded by seas, the sea borders are longer than the land borders. Thus, in our country, sailing and sea trade are of great importance, both economically and socially. Maritime and sea trade have unfortunately not been brought to the desired point, their problems have not been solved, and they have not been given the necessary support. For a review of all aspects of the problems of marine and sea trade, we submit a general discussion under Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Our country's sea borders are longer than the land borders. We have many riches such as oil, natural gas, minerals, cargo and passenger transport, fishing and water products, as well as navigational safety, naval safety, throat crossings, sea traffic and marine pollution. Although it has comparative advantages, it is difficult to say that Turkish sea trade is where it deserves to be. The government's economic policies, which promote an economic structure that is dependent on imports, rather than the productive economy, neglect the naval sector, are causing problems to deepen. One of the key indicators is that the share of shipping is reduced to 3.6 per cent in domestic transport. In fact, it is clear that giving up an independent undersecretary of Turkey's naval service as an independent undersecretary and representing it within a huge ministry at the head office would reduce the power and influence of sector representatives in this area. These views reveal the government's lack of vision in the naval field. The international property must be treated separately, as well as separately, as well as beyond the limits of transport and communication. Some of our important cities have no railway links to their ports, the lack of technological equipment of our ports, and serious infrastructure are vital and priority. The fact that the sea trade fleet has not been rejuvenated and cannot be supported by shipbuilding and yachting is another problem area. The 127 shipyards in our country have been operating with about 1,000 people until yesterday, while the capacity of use today has declined by 5 per cent. Most of these facilities are in debt due to the looting approaches of foreign banks that lend loans to the sector. The "Credi Guarantee Fund" created to be used when faced with hardship, was found to be used by political debates and several needy people close to the government. Turkish sailors need trained shipmen. Many institutions on our shores (e.g., the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism), are involved in a chaotic environment because there is no effective coordination. With the contributions and participation of all relevant units immediately, the plans for the coastal master must be made. The proportional weight of shipping must be increased within total internal transport. Our Turkish marine trade fleet is still carrying 27 per cent of the imported cargo, and measures and incentives should be produced to increase foreign transport. The containers and cargo transport that come to our country as transit and are sent from our ports to other countries must be supported. It is imperative that the provisions which prevent sea transport be removed immediately from the Law on Institutions Taxes. Foreign-born shipmen who work on ships registered to the TUGS must be facilitated in their work and permits. Short-distance shipping must be supported. The ships that are scheduled to travel through Turkish throats must not be kept waiting for long. Exports of ships built and built in Turkey must be encouraged, transactions should be facilitated. The majority of marine control must be eliminated. Yachtism has not expanded its share of the national economy. The biggest problem in the industry is the Turkish flagship problem, which, as of today, many Turkish flagships are drawing foreign flags, leaving the Turkish flag with their unregistered advantages. The rate has reached 70 percent. In terms of our national seamanship, overcoming this problem is more than anything else. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, which has been in power since 2002, in accordance with the foreign policy of the AKP, which has been in power since 2002, in particular the economic structure of the Republic of Turkey, commercial relations, the welfare of the nation, and the national budget balance, we would like to submit a general discussion on behalf of the Constitution's group to assess the figures of its actions in the General Assembly of the United Nations. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President The paradigm, "strategic depth," which Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu himself has transferred to practice since 2009, and its subtext, "zero problems with neighbours," reached a remarkable point at the end of 2012. "Earth peace, peace in the world," which is the main pillar of the traditional foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey. We see that his wisdom has been squandered recklessly and pushed aside, and a dangerous vision of nostalgia and imperial quality has been replaced. At the present stage, it suggests that the foreign policy line, which has been adopted, contradicts the long-term interests of state and nation both theoretical and material, and we are witnessing the right concerns of many. In this process, the state of the Republic of Turkey, as AKP officials have claimed, did not gain honor in the international arena, but has suffered the greatest damage and destruction within its eighty-nine-year existence. In addition to diplomatic echoes of the damage, of course, there is economic and commercial cost. On May 31st 2010, TBM and media did not discuss the economic policy of the process of regression, which won the "Arab Spring" after December of the same year, and eventually reached its peak in the Syrian crisis, and the government carried out a great decision-making policy. Indeed, the financial burden that Mr. Davutoglu's foreign policy has imposed on our country and on our people is essential. Contrary to what is thought, the effects of Mr. Davutoglu's architecture are not only related to the Syrian issue and are multidimensional. The table we're dealing with has many variables and elements. More than enough involvement in the wave of rebellion, which has spread through North Africa and the Middle East, eventually to our national borders, has brought with it various economic and commercial problems. Part of these problems include states directly and indirectly related to the Arab Spring. According to this, the People's Republic of China must be included in the list, especially in countries such as Russia and Iran. We have to consider the side effects of the matter. Russia, for example, has provided a condition for carrying Russian goods back to trucks carrying Turkish goods. Again, Uzbekistan, one of the cornerstones of the Turkish world, is making a tender for Turkish goods. Due to the closure of the Syrian border, export navlun's costs have been doubled, exports to Arab countries have been severely interrupted. With the plane crisis of the past few weeks, it is possible that we will have a difficult time at the gas point this winter. Given the government's increase in upgrades and additional taxes that have compressed most of our ordinary people, it is imperative that the General Assembly discuss how the money paid to refugee camps was provided with logistics given to the Free Syrian Army and how to compensate for general losses caused by foreign policy. It is important for the government to explain how and why they are being used, and to account for its actions, in the face of the TBMM. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. We now move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of the Constitutional Commission Report and the proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, Article 12 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Today we start with the 13th Amendment, sir. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 13th, currently in session, 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the phrase "unwavering" in his joke be removed from the text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Jesus Sky Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th Amendment of the current 616 rows. Article: 1-1. A) to change the joke in the following way, A) In situations that cannot be prevented by other measures, the final measure of firing is referred to. Two-two. He's about to come after the attempt on his joke or to add the notice of the attack, Three-two. To remove the word from the text of matter without hesitation in the joke, Supply and offer. Faruk Bal Murat Basesgioğlu Alim Iş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text for the amendment to some of the Laws under discussion 616 rows. Secret by Darayya Leader Kemal Aktas Pervin Buldan Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0037par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0036par0291	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0038par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0036par0293	Mr. Buldan, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0039par0294	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0036par0295	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0039par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 13th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, today is the 19th anniversary of the murder of journalist Metin Gökpe. Metin Gökpe was a friend of ours who was a journalist in Istanbul, a citizen. Nineteen years ago today, on January 8, 1996, there was a funeral at Umraniye Prison about the people who were killed in the attack on the prisoners and Alibeyköy in Alibeyköy, and Metin Gökpe took his paper, pencil and camera and went to watch this funeral, but not even Metin Gökpe was asked to be taken to the district where the funeral was to take place. Therefore, Despite all the insistences of Metin Gökpe (Metin Gökpe), he was not even allowed to be admitted to the district on the grounds that he did not have a yellow press card. However, Metin Gökpe was persistently entered the district, but was taken to a closed gym by police, was taken into custody with hundreds of people, and was subjected to the very violent batons of the police here, despite all the blows that struck his body, I am a journalist. He reminded the police that he was a journalist and a journalist. However, the batons have landed all over Metin Skype's body, but I am also a journalist. He said, "I am doing my duty." He said, "I will do my report." According to witnesses, Metin Gökpe lost his life in the closed gym -- along with the journalists and the people there." Therefore, Metin Gökpe is not among us today. Dear friends, not only Metin Gökpe, but hundreds of journalists such as Musa Anter, Hafiz Akdemir, Farhat Tepe have been subjected to police violence, pressure, or unsolved murders in Turkey today as they do their job in front of the press. Yes, we may have become hundreds, thousands, we've landed in the squares, we've tried to take care of Metin Gökpe, but there was a very heavy price to pay for being a journalist in this country, and one of them left us with the life of Metin Gökpe. It's always been a crime to be a journalist in this country, dear friends, and it's a crime to side with the free press in this country. Newspapers have been closed, newspapers have been bombed, pages have been censored, journalists have been tortured, journalists have been slaughtered, and we have lived in our country today, like 12 journalists who, unfortunately, lost their lives in the raid on Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris, the capital of France. Today in Paris, millions landed on the streets, trying to take care of their journalists. And we, too, today in Metin Gökpe, want to express our condolences to their families once again, dear friends, to all our fellow journalists who have given their lives, given their bodies, given their lives. We, the People's Democratic Party of this country today, would like to say that not only Metin Gökpe. So far, the perpetrators of all murdered, murdered journalists must be exposed immediately, and those who have murdered them must be judged and punished. It's the only way we can keep them, and that's the only way we can keep them alive. Today, one of the duties of the AKP government is to expose the murders of journalists slaughtered in Turkey. He wants to say that those who kill them must be judged, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0303	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th Amendment of the current 616 rows. Article: 1-1. A) to change the joke in the following way, A) In situations that cannot be prevented by other measures, the final measure of firing is referred to. Two-two. He's about to come after the attempt on his joke or to add the notice of the attack, Three-two. To remove the word from the text of matter without hesitation in the joke, Supply and offer. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0041par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0316	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0042par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0318	Who's gonna talk? Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0043par0319	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0320	I'm reading the reason: In the event of an attempted assault with a motion, the use of a weapon has been staged. There is a gap in the event of the attack. This gap needs to be filled. Since the use of weapons is limited by the proportion of measureability, it is pointless to put the word in matter without hesitation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 13th, currently in session, 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. Without a doubt, we offer and propose that the statement of the joke be removed from the text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0044par0329	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0330	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0045par0331	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0040par0332	Mr. Private will speak, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0046par0334	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Once again, I offer my condolences to our Adana MP Murat Bozlak. I condemn the massacre against freedom of thought in Paris yesterday. Just 18 years ago on January 8, 1996, I once again remember Metin Gökope, a journalist we lost, with respect, gratitude, and longing. We have been promised a motion by our group on the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. I am a member of the Republican People's Party -- along with Nurettin Demir and Muharrem Izwarrem -- a member of the Penalty Commission. I am a member of a commission that has made more than 150 visits in 50 different prisons, starting from Posance Prison, and has written more than a hundred reports about it, and five of them have been published. Wherever there was a violation of rights, wherever there was law, the Republican People's Party went decisively on them at this time, and as we went on to them, we never questioned the type of crime, the ethnicity, the faith, the religion, the language, the race, the crime, the origin of it, we never dealt with it at all, the human rights base. And during all our visits to prisons, there were three major victims, three major victims. One of them was the problems of the prisoners. The other was the problems that prison relatives experienced before, during, and after prison visits, but the other was the victim of prison personnel. Prison staff's name is changing. In the old days they were called the guard, a revolution was made, they were named after the guard, but their problems didn't change. Today we'll call them the internal security officer and the external security officer, but we're not interested in their problems. However, staff in prison had similar problems four years ago, ten years ago, 20 years ago. They don't need a new adjective, they need a new status, they need to know their problems, and they need solution proposals. They need a make-up, not a new name, but an CPR to help them breathe first because of their emergency, and then an effective treatment and rehabilitation. Execution officers, managers, vice principals, candidates, technical officers, all of their problems are mountain-like and waiting to be solved. When we go to the prison, when we go to the prisoners, they look us in the eye, and when they come in or out, they talk about their problems, to see if they can come up one day in the House and come up with solutions. For example, officers who work in prison carry weapons -- in prison, when they're out on duty -- they do risky missions, like cops and gendarmes, but they don't have any sense of wear and tear. Unfortunately, there are no officers in prison who are known to very different trade groups, who are known to journalists, who are ultimately known to lawmakers. Prison officials, on the other hand, don't take overtime as well as workmen in prison don't get wearout. What's interesting is that they work most, for example, on holidays, on New Year's Day, when everyone's resting. Why are they working? Because there's a clear view in those days, and everyone's going to have an open opinion in a few days. All the permits are cancelled, none of them are allowed to go near their family, to be near their relatives, and to be held by fate's prisoners, to hold their children for the last time, to spend the holiday day together, to make sacrifices from their own family, their own relatives. They don't get paid a penny more for these special days' work, for overtime at any time of the day, for any riots, when all the permits are cancelled, when they're gone, for the overtime they're working. When they try to retire, for example, a manager's salary of 3,800 lira is reduced to $2,000; the death guard receives $2,800, and his salary is reduced to 1,500, $1,600. They're loaded with credit cards, they're forced to work up to the neck of debt, without retirement, to the age limit, and they're trying to survive by sharing that bad fate with the prisoners in the state's $4 meal for three meals under the circumstances. Our group has suggestions, we demand that they be evaluated and that these people's voices be heard. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0047par0342	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, please allow me to see your hand signals better so I can get a better understanding. There are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. (2) In cases when security guards or law enforcement use force to intervene, necessary measures are taken, including a confidentiality decision on the life and property safety of the personnel involved in the intervention. Faruk Bal Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 14th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the article text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Melda Onur Malik Ecder Özdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text for the amendment to some of the Laws under discussion 616 rows. Secret by Sureyya Leader Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0048par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0047par0368	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0049par0369	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0047par0370	Mr. Buldan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0050par0371	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, yesterday, we tried to make a statement to Mr. Secretary in the QA, and we received an answer from him, but we're going to try to express our views on this on every platform, on every platform, on every basis, and once again express our insistence on it. The matter of the sick prisoners is again a matter that must be resolved as we explained to the Minister yesterday, and because it is a very vital, very conscientious matter, I would like to express that a step must be taken towards the sick prisoners in no time. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary stated that a law would be drafted within a month and that there would be initiatives and steps to take, but we would like to remind Mr. Secretary that in 2014, Seyithan Taşkıran, Şehmus Yetek, Celal Kılıçaslan, Ramazan Özalp, Lütfü Taş and Hashem Arduçlu, the sick prisoners who lost their lives and, of course, were taken by death. We didn't say that we needed to get out of here as soon as possible, and we're in the middle of a month where maybe we'll lose dozens of patients in prison. So, Mr. Secretary, once again, we ask you, as soon as we can, without waiting, without waiting for a month, we feel that if we take a step towards this, at least we can do a little bit of our duty to them. We'd like to actually express it in connection with the peace process that we're in. Since the beginning of the process, the matter of the sick prisoners has been a matter of negotiation, and with some polymixes, the only way we can get the sick prisoners out of prison is if we don't take any steps towards the sick prisoners before this is done, but we want to underline how much of a conscientious issue this is, how human it is. Dear friends, we have, of course, about 500 patients on the list, and the head of these sick prisoners is Abdullah Kalay Kandira No. In Lu F Type Prison, again Abdurrahman Yıldırım Şakran T Type T Prison, Avni Uçar Siirt Type E Prison, St Bayin Edirne, Aslan Karslı Breğlar, Alaatt Edirne, again Ayfer Ayçüçek Gebze M-type Women's Prison, Fatma Tokmak Bakırköy Women's Closed Prison. So we want to convey our insistence to the government, Mr. Secretary, that they can meet with their families without losing them, that perhaps they can give their last breath together with their families. So we feel that there are steps that must be taken very urgently regarding the sick prisoners, and we would like to express our insistence to the Minister, as well as to the peace process. I salute the General Assembly. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Buldan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 14th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the article text. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0051par0386	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0052par0387	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0051par0388	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0053par0389	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0051par0390	Mr. Onur, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0054par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a commitment to the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, but before I begin my words, I condemn you by lifting my bloody hand to humor yesterday. If you'll excuse us, we need to give this support to our friends. I'll hold it like this. [[Hatibin displays a foreign currency written on it]] Friends, I humbly offer my condolences to the loved ones of the comics masters and Charlie Hebdo employees, who I know are friends of my friends in a city where my years of schooling have passed. Today is the anniversary of the death of the beloved Metin Skype, the anniversary of the massacre. January 10th, it's Working Journalists' Day in the coming days. On this occasion, we're going to propose a law today. In our country under pressure by media and humor, we want it dedicated to humor journalism on January 7th, and we want it to have a week of press freedom and humor on January 7th, so it doesn't respond to humor, guns, gas, batons. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, I received a letter from the prison a while ago. Zeynep Bakr sent his 3-year-old baby, Poyraz Ali, and a picture of him. I'll show you the photo, Zeynep and his child, Poyraz Ali. Poyraz Ali is a baby with autism, 3 years old. Zeynep Bakr lived with his wife and son in Tripoli. Participating in all legal demonstrations, Erzurum was convicted of being a member of a terrorist organization for producing a perfectly legal magazine in a private court. You know, the special official who was cursed today, thought to be harmful to the Turkish judicial system. Poyraz Ali, son of Zeynep, atypical autism. Atypical autism is a curable autism, but there are measures to prevent autism from progressing. Three or six years of age is also very important, but at the age of three or six, unfortunately, Poyraz Ali will have to be in prison. Poyraz Ali lives this way: His father, who lives in Tripoli, comes to an open meeting once a month. The reason he came to the clear is that closed vision is not appropriate for a child with autism. She's crying when she leaves her mother. Dad takes a week, then brings it back. She's crying at both ends. He should be studying 24/7, but unfortunately, Poyraz Ali only goes to a reception centre three times a week for 45 minutes. It's a good reception center, but it's not enough. There's a national education daycare center in prison. It's not a bad daycare, but there are no conditions for a kid with autism. We need special training. Now, for the child's superior benefit, he has to stay with his mother, especially when he goes out to this nursery. Think of something: A guard takes the child from his mother and takes it to day care. Even the fact that his mother could go to the daycare center in that prison is extremely important to a child with autism. Besides, the materials sent to him for his education are unfortunately not available. Mr. Secretary, we visited him recently. I don't know. Were you able to trace it? I'm telling you about a baby with autism. We'll also visit you for this. I'm going to visit, too. I'll write that down right here. There's something wrong with the autism baby. I mean, there's a lot of kids with autism -- we know -- in prisons. The training materials sent to this child are being confiscated. What's this? The dough, the puzzle, the pen. Please encourage them to be provided with a change of regulations. Now, we would like to know, what are the number of children today in prisons with autism or disability or chronic illness? Is there any research on this? We know it's not a proper study of autism. You know, I don't want to gossip about your cabinet, but the response from the Health Department to the federation has no intention of doing any work on autism. We know the Ministry of Family and Social Policy still hasn't made an appointment with the Federation. They've come a long way in the time of Fatma Şahin Hanım, but we know Mr. Aysenur Islam still hasn't given the Federation an appointment for an autism action plan. We'd especially like to ask for your sensitivity to prevent the discomfort of our children, our children in prison, and the children we believe may have autism in prison. I'm giving you our request for an appointment today. In the coming days, Mr. Undersecretary, we're going to visit you on the fact that children with autism don't stay in prisons. The important thing is that families are out on probation. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0403	Thank you, Mr. Onur. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. (2) In cases when security guards or law enforcement use force to intervene, necessary measures are taken, including a confidentiality decision on the life and property safety of the personnel involved in the intervention. Murat Basesgioğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0056par0411	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0412	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0057par0413	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0414	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0058par0415	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0416	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with the laws of the law, the matter has been made in accordance with the laws of the state. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. There are three motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the current 616th row. Article 4. (appreciated by the Attorney General of the Republic by receiving the commander's opinion) The removal of its expression from the text of matter, instead, is appreciated by its amimiri. The decision to intervene is immediately declared to the Attorney General of the Republic.) We offer and propose the addition of its statement and expression. Faruk Bal Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 15. Article 4. "C" is the best place to investigate, where the nearest High Criminal Court is held by the Public Prosecutor's Office. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Melda Onur Malik Ecder Özdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Secret by Sureyya Leader Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0059par0441	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0442	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0060par0443	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0055par0444	Mr. Buldan, you will speak. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0061par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we may be trying to speak on this stand today on every motion we make, but we think that each one of them is important, and because of that importance, we try to use this bench so often today. Dear friends, tomorrow is January 9th. Two years ago, as it is known, on January 9, 2012, three women were murdered in Paris, the capital of France. Yes, Sara, Sakine is lifeless; Rojbin, Fidan Doğan; Ronahi, Leyla Shaylemez. Sadly, these three women were slaughtered by dark forces in the capital of France, in the heart of France, in Paris. Their slaughter actually had a great purpose. The ones who slaughtered them were meant to commit this massacre because these three women were important names in the Kurdish struggle for freedom. Just a week after the start of the peace talks with Mr. Ocalan on January 3rd, those who murdered three of our friends who were murdered in France on 9 January did so to prevent the development or progress of this peace process. In fact, the only thing that needed to be done was who did these murders, what forces were behind these murders, and those forces had to be revealed. Unfortunately, neither the AKP government nor the French government in Turkey have been able to investigate these murders, let alone find the slightest hint of who did it, and not reveal to the public who did it; they did not do their duty. The government of France did not do its duty, and the AKP government did not do its duty; however, there was a lot of evidence in their hands, dear friends. Despite the public reflection of these talks, the AKP's government chose to remain silent on this issue, even though a person named South came to Turkey with talks with the MIT. We'd like to honor all the women who died here in the presence of our three female friends. They knew very well that their peace process, their process of democratisation in Turkey, their Kurdish problem in Turkey would contribute greatly to the democratic process of resolving it. They had very important places in this struggle, but those who didn't want this process to develop, those who wanted to sabotage it, those who wanted to prevent it, stared at these three women and slaughtered them. We want to express once again that we will not forget the Sakinas, Ronahis and Saras in every platform, in every place, in every field, in the squares, and we want to make it very clear to the AKP government that unless these killings are discovered, progressing in this peace process will be very difficult. So these murders are part of the peace process. The job of the AKP government is to expose these murders, expose the forces behind these murders, and share it with the public, to give the necessary punishments to these people. Once again, we want to express our expectations, our insistence. In many parts of Turkey tomorrow, in many capitals of Europe, these three women will be remembered, our commitments to them will be expressed, their struggles will be lived, and once again, I express our respect, gratitude, and thanks to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0062par0452	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 15. Article 4. "C" is the best place to investigate, where the nearest High Criminal Court is held by the Public Prosecutor's Office. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0063par0459	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0062par0460	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0064par0461	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0062par0462	Mr. Agha, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0065par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I ask for the mercy of Mr Murat Bozlak, who has devoted his life to the struggle for democracy and freedom that we have served together in the Human Rights Prison Subcommittee, to his party and to his family. Dear friends, as you and the public are well aware, as the Republican People's Party Prison Commission, we have visited many prisons from Mudrne to Turkey. We tried to be wherever there was injustice. In every prison we visited the prisoners, and we had meetings with the wardens, managers, assistant managers, candidate officers, technical officers, drivers, we identified their problems, reported their problems, and said so many times on this stand. But I'm sorry to say that whatever the death guard's problems were in 2011, it's the same now, nothing's changed. There's only one thing that's changed from 2011 to today, my dear friends, before he was wearing a linen shirt, and now he's wearing an execution guard's vest, and unfortunately, he's pulling three bodies in a wash. Dear friends, the problem is that it's simple, it's the chasside problem, it's the walking night, it's the engine problem, but it's just changing the hood. It used to be called the guard, then it was called the prison guard, and now it's called the security guard, the foreign guard. So the body changes, but the staff in the prison doesn't change. The officers who work in prison need a new status, not a new title. In prison, there are valuable friends, two types of prisoners: one of them, prisoners who are approaching 157,000, overlapping, sometimes breathing in shifts, under all kinds of negative circumstances. The second is the prisoners who took the examinations by working, who were in the prison voluntarily, who were officers of the execution guard. Execution guards are affected by all the negativity in the prison. The guards say, dear friends, Mr. Secretary, that Jandarman has the owner, the police have the owner, we don't have the owner. He does not love us in prison, he does not love us in prison, and it seems that our ministry does not love us in the Ministry of Justice. The police have a share of wear and tear, the soldier has a share of wear and tear, and even our AKP MP friends, who never work here, have a share of wear and tear. (CHP cheers) But, unfortunately, the death guard, who's taking all kinds of risks, who's putting his night into the day, has no sense of wear and tear. They've told you over and over the years, CIPDER, the other associations have been brought up many times. In each budget speech, we said that as the Republican People's Party Prison Commission, there should be a share of wear and tear. Maybe the officers who deserve their share of the wear and tear, they're death guards. Because, dear friends, look, they take the risk of every prisoner in prison, they take all kinds of risks out there, but despite that, unfortunately, they don't get a shred of wear and tear. Again, dear friends, you know a lot of prisons out of town, some of them have housing, some of them don't have housing, some of them don't, some of them don't, some of them don't, and unfortunately, there are people out there living in total isolation. His family also lives as prisoners, the families of the people who were in prison there, because they can't relate to another human being in the out-of-town housing. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, all the officers, when they come to retirement, everyone retires on a wedding holiday. The only non-retired officers are death guards. The manager can't retire, the death guard can't retire, the expert can't retire, the vice principal can't retire. Why precious friends? Because, on the day the manager's salary retires for 4,000 liras, his salary goes down to $2,500, the day the death guard who was paid $3,000 retires, dear friends, $1,500. Therefore, whether their children go elsewhere, whether they are sick, whether his wife is sick, or bedridden, unfortunately, death guards cannot retire. Dear friends, I'm afraid the death guard is also affected by all the negativity of the prison. If there are no toilets, I'm afraid the patients there, the sick prisoners, the guards of the execution take them to the toilet, they attract all kinds of negatives. Again, dear friends, I would also like to say that the guards of the execution, the officers who don't take one shift. No holidays, no Christmas, no nights, no daytimes, but unfortunately, the death guard still can't get overtime. No union rights, no food, no winter boots, no gun rights, no retirement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, the death guard's problems haven't been resolved. Mr. Secretary, we're asking you to take the problems of the death guard a little more seriously and solve them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0066par0478	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey This is the 15th draft of the current 616th row. Article 4. (appreciated by the Attorney General of the Republic by receiving the commander's opinion) The removal of its expression from the text of matter, instead, is appreciated by its amimiri. The decision to intervene is immediately declared to the Attorney General of the Republic.) We offer and propose the addition of its statement and expression. Murat Basesgioğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0067par0485	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0066par0486	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0068par0487	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0066par0488	I'm reading the reason: The bill is placed in a position like the Chief of Operations of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition to the administrative duty of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the system of judicial duty, which is provided by the gendarmes, the prison administration of internal security, and the dissolution of interagency balance and control of institutions. It will be unstable and unsupervised for the Republic's Attorney's Office to be acting as the chief of operations, who will investigate violations from the prison administration and in the event of interference. In the event of an intervention, a legal conclusion, such as the investigation of the Republic's attorney's own actions, which should be investigated within the jurisdiction of the unlawful. The proposal is left to the top supervisor of the authority and responsibility response units. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the presidential reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... are not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 16. In the second sentence of the article, we propose that the "needs" be changed to "when necessary." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Melda Onur Malik Ecder Özdemir Uğur Bayraktutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second sentence of the 16th article of the framework of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in some Laws in 616 rows that are in session should be changed in the following way. "The personnel who will also take part in the security services are also given basic human rights training by the Turkish Bar Association, the Bar Association, the civil society organisations operating within the framework of human rights, and the platforms operating in the human rights of law schools. " Secret Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0069par0508	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0066par0509	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0070par0510	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0066par0511	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0071par0512	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. I salute the General Assembly. On the basis of the bill, I'd like to address the transfer of prisoners from their families to prisons. When prisoners are sent away from their families to prisons against their will, their parents and wives and children cannot visit or meet with the prisoner. Children also go to school, so they can't visit their fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters in prison, or miss their studies. In this case, there are serious problems. Dear lawmakers must be transferred to prisons close to their families. For special efforts must be made to ensure that the prisoner's family ties remain intact in Article 22 of the recommendation of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers in the field of criminal execution. Prisons should be placed as close to their families or relatives as possible." There is a sentence in its form. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice must carry out its practices on this basis. Another problem in the family opinion with the convicted is the duration of the meeting. Expansion in the monthly open-views that families may sometimes go to is also an important issue for the well - being of ties between the prisoner and his family. Parents, spouses, and children who face various challenges have to return without understanding an hour's vision. Although a weekly visit is granted on paper, weekly views are not practical for prisoners sent to prisons hundreds of miles from their family. Dear MPs, the right to contact the family and the outside world must not be blocked; the prisoner's relations with the outside must be strengthened by the benefit. In order for families to visit prisoners, they must be held in a prison near where their families reside. We can clearly learn from complaints such as the ability to meet with the families and lawyers of prisons, to sever the ties between students' schools, to be forced to travel in ringcars for days at a time, from prison visits, from letters sent to our side, as well as from civil society organisations concerning this matter. Dear lawmakers, it is unacceptable for prisoners to move far away from their families' residences, both against international contracts and human rights. Many families can't afford to go to see their relatives because they can't find the money, so the prisoners can't visit their families because they don't want them to become more victims. They might have to. It also causes stress, depression, and many more psychological problems for the prisoner who cannot contact his family and relatives. This crisis also reflects on prison personnel, which can lead to increased abuse of prisoners. Thus, the problem of staying away from families in prisons is in chains making prisons even more unbearable. Dear lawmakers use the concepts of "rehabilitating, bringing prisoners into society" when describing the Department of Justice prison system, but it's impossible to understand what kind of rehabilitation they're looking for by removing prisoners from their families, by not allowing them to use common spaces, by putting a book ban on them. Incompatible with human dignity, we sever the prisoner's ties to his family and to the community. These approaches and practices have long and short-term social hazards, and they continue to cause problems. Dear lawmakers, it is unacceptable for the Ministry of Justice to show that prisons are crowded as an excuse for prison transports. The problem is that prisons are crowded, not with transfers, but with the revision of prisons, with the restructuring of architecture in line with human rights and life, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0072par0523	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 16. In the second sentence of the article, we propose that the "needs" be changed to "when necessary." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0073par0530	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0072par0531	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0074par0532	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0072par0533	Mr. Flagtutan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0075par0535	Mr. President, very dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, I offer my condolences on our police officer, who was a martyr in the traitorous attack in Istanbul. I'm just saying, I hope this all blows over. There's been an interesting incident since yesterday: there's a terrorist who's been caught; we haven't been able to I.D. the person at the autopsy for two days. Today, Mr. Minister of the Interior has been graciously identified as........ the incident in France is being attacked with pontoons, unknown who they are, last night. We found out who made the sheets this morning, but our Home Secretary, 48 hours later, revealed an unidentified identity. I wonder if it's really true or not. I want to share it first. After that -- I told you earlier -- there's a cancellation decision made in Artvin Cerattepe, and I say good luck to all Turkey, to all of Artvin, to all of the environmental struggle, is a legal struggle that will break hands reaching out to Artvin. I congratulate those who have worked hard in this struggle. My dear friends, the MP's duty is to supervise. There's nothing more important than an inspection mission. There are some tasks that have been attributed to him when he is acting as a supervisor, which he can carry out. One of them, for example, can ask written questions, ask verbal questions, and submit a motion for parliamentary research. I was actually going to do my speech in a different context, but I got a letter from the Speaker yesterday, dear friends. I asked the Speaker a question. In my question to the Speaker, there's a very valuable man, Kadir Egyptoglu, who insults all the values of the republic, a hero! This is a citizen who considers it his duty to insult Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a citizen who is pouring curses and foul insults.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0076par0540	Metzup, mezzup!
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0075par0541	Yeah, that's right, crazy. Now, when you're on the website of the Ministry of National Education, with nothing going on, students in schools can easily access what this lunatic says, my dear friends. I asked Mr. Nabi Hunter four questions. Now, these questions are against what clause of the Civil Code, and I submit them to the discretion of the lawmakers. I said, "Mr. Minister, why do smart boards use filters in your ministry's schools, for what purpose are they being used, and what videos are being blocked?" That's my first question. My second question: why is the video of the person called Kadir Egyptoglu insulting the values of Ataturk and the republic not attached to your Ministry's filter? Are the programs and filters that do not apply filters to the video defaming Ataturk and the republic's values applied? Now, our esteemed Speaker -- who I wrote to our Parliament Speaker in the early days of my parliamentary office -- because I said I didn't know you as Speaker because of your insensitive attitude about arrested MPs -- it turns out I was right -- my dear friends wrote me a letter. It says in the article: "The articles 2 and 4 of the questions you've written, which you've asked, do not comply with the regulations of the Civil Code. This is what I call Cemil Cicek. How does this not fit? So, these questions about Kadir Egyptoglu are not comments. I'm asking the Minister, are you going to stop it or not? This is not from the Speaker. I'm calling from here to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: please do your duty within objective rules, Mr. President. Please make it necessary. Do not make subjective assessments of such questions based on the Civil Code. First of all, I'd like to express it. Other than that, I'll say a few more things, my dear friends. Before I came here, I looked at the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary to see what the coup was. One of the words you use most in terms of December 17th and 25th, one of the words you're defending is a coup. The Turkish Language Foundation's definition of a coup says that it is a coup to resign the government by putting pressure on a country or by force or by democratic means or to change the regime. My dear friends, I wish you were at Artvin's on September 12, 1980, to know what the coup was. If you could just see what a coup is, how a coup is done. On September 12, 1980, they came to the doors in the morning, took people by the collars, brought them down to the Artvin Teacher's School; by putting them in cold water, by electrocuting, by torturing them, and by seeing their families perhaps a year and a half later, they met each other only by seeing each other. In order to see what the coup was, you have to see how the military coup was done on September 12, 1980, the coup of Kenan Evren. The coup is not: When there are these definitions, as someone does when there are such pressures and tortures, have you reset the money? It is not the saying of my dear friends. Therefore, you need to distinguish this blow well. I think if you distinguish the fine line between theft and impact, you'll be able to describe what December 17th and 25th are. My dear friends, that's why we say there's a difference between your children and our children. Your children have money-counting machines in your homes, dollars, euros; in our houses we have photographs of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, nothing else. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0077par0553	You've got garlic! There's plenty! There's plenty!
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0078par0554	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 17th, currently in session, 616 rows. Article 4. We offer and offer the addition of the declaration of employment fees and other social rights to the joke after the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Malik Ecder Özdemir Melda Onur Kadir Gökmen Öğmen Öğüm Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 17th article of the framework of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in some Laws under the current 616 rows. Secret by Sureyya Leader Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0079par0571	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0078par0572	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0080par0573	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0078par0574	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0081par0575	Mr. President, good lawmakers, after this 17th article is handed over to foreign security execution officers, all of a sudden, the number of executions available between 42,000 and 45,000 will increase to 80,000. So there'll be 80 thousand new enforcers. Well, the problems of these execution officers, their expectations... the Carabinieri were getting gun compensation when they were out there earlier, there was a workout, he was using his holidays, so there's a lot more going on out there... rights, additional raises, compensations. When you hand over the external security here -- including the arrival of the council -- there will be a new armed force under the legal arm of the courthouse, the Justice Department, along with the legal law, and the number will be around 80,000. Now, you're gonna get these guns. You're saying that we're going to get an opinion from the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the supply of these weapons. Also, domestic security dogs are provided by the Ministry. • I mean, you know, here -- usually with security -- are used in such tasks. Now, here, according to these laws, what are you going to determine -- weapons, ammunition, security, or whatever? With regulations. This is what AK PARTY governments do best; they make a law, the state of the citizen is unknown. 80,000 execution officers are waiting now; what will happen, what will the House discuss? Congress isn't discussing anything, brother, we're discussing stories. This law will pass, four bureaucrats will sit down, work the regulations, and then we'll call it the will of the nation, what will? Is this where we're talking about the rights of equity to the vigilante who's been working 24 hours a day? Is this Parliament deciding additional payments, overtime fees, holiday holidays? I mean, think about it, people in prison are already stressed out, in trouble. And when you don't set up the terms of the officers in charge, when you don't pay them, when you don't give them their wages, when you don't give them theirs, how do you maintain human rights and order with those who are in trouble, two employees, and those who are inside? You can't. Why are you doing my brother's regulations? Isn't the law of the gendarme passed by this Parliament? Look, we're talking law enforcement, it's in the security package, isn't it? We're talking about 80,000 death guards, friends, staffs, counted here one by one. These death guard officers are not only in their uniform; they are from basic human rights to, I don't know, their education, their health, their health, their salaries, their security. Now, don't they all have to live on cheap rent, where will they live on this salary? He doesn't have an apartment. How are you going to protect the death guard from the high-security prison against the mob, against criminal organizations? He's going to rent a slum in the suburbs, and according to crime rates, areas where people from different parts are usually in control. How will this death guard be protected when he is exposed to this threat and this danger? Let alone his protection, his shift, his salary, his rights, his education... so, once in the gendarmes, for example, petty officers, officers, they go through a certain education, a school, an education. I mean, is the Ministry going to do that with regulations? That's the basis of justice, friends. Execution officers want justice, justice. There's no peace of mind when the officers of the execution guard have no peace of mind over 159,000 prisoners and prisoners there. Mistreatment, whatever, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, There's fighting going on in prison, there's trouble, I don't know what's going on. Come on, don't leave it to regulations, talk to the law in Congress, guys, it's not a secret thing. You're doing it wrong, it's not the regulations, it's the law. I remind you of that.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0082par0580	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 17th, currently in session, 616 rows. Article 4. We offer and offer the addition of the declaration of employment fees and other social rights to the joke after the declaration. A Remembrance of the Mighty heavens and His companions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0083par0587	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0082par0588	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0084par0589	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0082par0590	Mr. Reminder, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0085par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on the 17th Amendment of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. You're giving away the services of the guards for free, you're gracious, but you don't pay the extra work fees they deserve. You're not paying, and we're constantly expressing their righteous demands around here. Accept our motions, pay extra work fees to the death guard. We ask that this be passed within this law, and we ask that you accept our motion. Dear lawmakers, a crucial vote was held earlier this week. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission cleared four former ministers, whose name was involved in the corruption scandal. Not only did we have a critical, but we also had a historic day. Because even though the Supreme Court of the Commission has no decision, not just us, but the Turkish people will never, ever forget the date of December 17, 2013 and the days that continue, will be a black mark in history. No one is immortal. These positions are temporary. Those seats are not your father's property. You will be spoken of on the day you step down from those positions, just as you did today. How you fill your pockets, what you're trying to reset that doesn't fit in the vaults, tomorrow, and then no one will forget, and then you'll be remembered like this. And we'll do our best not to let it go. They're going to be destroyed. How do you erase people's memories? How will you forget the baccarat reels? My friends, how well our ancestors said: "This spear cannot fit in this sack. " You can't fit in it. Dear lawmakers, there have been a lot of supporting platforms these days. There's a structure called the Civil Solidarity Platform, and the president is a member of the government's list of smart men. For at least a year and often, on the subway, on the billboards on the street, on land roads, even off-limits places, there are ads for this platform. Why? Because they're promoting Erdogan by saying "substantial will." So we want to rent, advertise from these boards, we're trying to announce the week of corruption. No, when it comes to CHP, brother, we say we'll give you three times as much, and advertising companies say it can't be scared once. When it comes to propaganda, all doors are wide open; no one touches or listens to curfews, and when it comes to CHP, it's poo. They don't even know what they're paying for. Now, this platform has given the newspapers a full page ad with the same title; it defies national will; it gives the Constitutional Court and its supreme enforcer, the House, and its MPs, the Court of the Constitution. Who are you, who feeds you? What's the source of your money on these ads? Who do they serve, what tenders do they take, what price do they take? The answers to all these questions must be made public. The Speaker must conduct the legal process immediately and immediately, and must answer to those who dare challenge all members of this roof. Otherwise, those who ignore it as well as those who do not do so will be remembered and remembered as partners in this crime today and tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, as if the foot goes where the head goes, when Erdoğan calls the lawmakers "full," some of them have the courage to insult the will of the nation on this stand, to bring saltpots here. And those who have seen it have the nerve to insult national will with these ads. There's a saying that the social media phenomenon, the Baattin (Baattin), says about these people, about this salt salt, I dare not say here, but you must be following them, see what they're saying. The waiters at your desks at the Clave thing are picking up the salt shakers, my friends. Don't you feel this shame, don't you hear these rumors? Dear lawmakers, now the Constitutional Court is the target of the leading players, extras, and everyone involved in the production of this film. Since the Supreme Court has been mentioned for some time, all of them have waged war against the Constitutional Court, particularly the media. Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu says the Constitutional Court is the main element of the system that set them up, and we don't. They'll laugh about it, guys. We don't. You, the AK PARTY, have appointed almost all of the members of the Court, the current President, the former President. Only four members of the 17-member court were elected by Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer, the 10th President, and all other members were elected during your term. Today they're afraid of the lawyers they've chosen. They scare you because they're scared. And the Supreme Court has never made a decision about the election dam... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not a coincidence, it's a result of the pressure of the ruling party. I thank you all, and I say that the attack on the national will must be stopped by this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0086par0608	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, which is currently in session, 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Malik Ecder Özdemir Melda Onur Engin Özkoç To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the release of the 18th article of the framework of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in some Laws in the current 616 rows. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Sırrıyya Leader Kemal Aktaş Erol Dora İdris Baluken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0087par0625	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0086par0626	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0088par0627	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0086par0628	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0089par0629	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When we're discussing a bill for the Justice Department here, how much justice is left, how much law is left, how much independent justice is left, of course, there's a need to discuss in detail. I'm sure we can all figure out the state of justice, the state of law in this country, based solely on unjudgmented executions. If there are judicial executions in a country and judicial executions are rewarded with punishment, then both justice and justice are lost in that country, it's gone. Unfortunately, the practice of Turkey, especially during the AKP administration, the legitimisation of judicial executions and the punishment for punishment is practice, and there is no way that any bill on justice can solve the problem. Look, just last year in the AKP administration, in 2014, in social demonstrations, the number of people who were killed by police and military bullets in public demonstrations is 54, a terrible number. In the last 12 years, from 2002 to 2014, the number was 490. In other words, nearly 500 people were executed without trial during your rule of government, slaughtered in the middle of the street, and 99 percent of them received no punishment, and they were awarded a penalty. If we try to count their names here, we probably won't be able to finish until morning, but in the last two months only, in the last two months, the sons of Uğur Özbay, Bavarian, Abdulkadir Çakmak, David Nas, Mert Değirmenci, Emre Ekci, Ramazan Arif, Yunus Aktaş, Şahan Dağhan, Rojhat Özdel, here are the list of many children who have been executed in the middle of the street, which is known by all the people of Turkey, and many other children who have been executed in the middle of the streets. So far, as I've said, there's not been a single trial that will ease the public conscience and ease the public conscience of those who have committed these judicial executions. You all know about the gazelle forearm. Ceylan Önkol was killed by a mortar shell fired from the Abalı police station when he went out to pasture in the village of Şenlik in lice district of Diyarbakır. We don't know how Ceylan Önkol. We don't know who killed them. We don't know why they didn't get punished until now. Yesterday, Diyarbakır 2nd of the murder, which has not been disclosed to the public in any way so far, has not been reported to the public. The Supreme Court ruled on a financial compensation of 28,208 TL, an embarrassing decision. The cost of a child's life is determined by the court in the form of blood money and will be delivered to the family. In such an environment, it is impossible to speak of judgment, law, justice. Regarding those who slaughtered during the travel resistance, the prime minister of this country went out and wrote my police legend. While these judicial executions were being carried out, the prime minister of this country was able to go out and say that even if it was a woman or a child, the security forces would do it. Since these are said, judicial executions continue to be reckless. Look, yesterday, after an attack on a comic magazine in Paris, the French President said, "We will go out and deal with the criminals in front of justice." But a month ago in this country, the Prime Minister, the President of this country, said, "We have punished the criminals in the way they deserved." When that's understanding, when that's the mentality, there's no talking about law in this country, there's no talking about justice, there's no making permanent solutions to problems, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0090par0636	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, which is currently in session, 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Engin Özkoç (Sacaria) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0091par0643	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0090par0644	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0092par0645	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0090par0646	Mr. Ozkoch, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0093par0648	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I ask Allah's mercy and patience for his kinsmen. Dear friends, sometimes in a country, the government wants to silence everyone in order to establish its own dictatorship; it wants to silence the army; it wants to silence the press; it wants to silence the law; it wants to silence the doctors, unionists, journalists; it wants to silence the intellectuals; it wants to silence the teachers, it wants to silence the intellectuals; it says, "Ergenekon"; it puts people in prison, and then, after that, I did it wrong; it finds other ways, but this time, it finds other ways; it finds other ways; it wants to silence the witch hunt; it wants to silence; I am a journalist in the sky; I can't silence anyone who says, I am a journalist; I am a journalist; I can't silence me in the sky. They want to silence Oktay Soshi, they want to silence Enis Berberoglu, Uğur Dündar, Yilmaz Özdil. They're just trying to get them to end their own press lives by printing them out of the newspapers of their column because they're writing the truth on their corners. And do their voices disappear in this universe? No, it comes out stronger, bigger, louder. In France, journalists are wanted to be killed and silenced, and they die and disappear? No, in a stronger way, their voices echo in the world. Today, at the Anadolu Agency, people are being hunted by witches. The Anadolu Agency was one of Turkey's proudest agencies. At least 20 of your friends have been terminated. They said to the friends there, "Just go ahead and look for your rights," and they were handed a piece of paper without any questions. Kemal Ozturk and the former head of the Ankara Branch of Turkey's Journalists Union, which was thrown out with him, his friends have been purged from one newspaper at a time. They're all managers, assistant managers, editors. Today, you are no longer in the Anadolu Agency. We have 10 other friends who are union members next. Our other friends are waiting in fear. They want to destroy honest journalists who are doing the right journalism, who want to speak to the public, who are in charge of their duties, by starting a witch hunt. And where does that lead? Will they be able to destroy freedom in Turkey by destroying journalists, killing people with batons, destroying their rights to work, threatening them, building an empire of horror mountains? No. We stand by our fellow journalists at the Anadolu Agency and defend their rights. We'll be the voice of our dead friends, we'll be heard on the council stand, and you'll never be able to destroy the voice of freedom. I give you all my regards and love.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0094par0654	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 19th article: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 19th amendment to the amendment of some Laws under discussion 616 be removed from the proposal text of Article 19 of the framework. Secret by Sureyya Leader Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 19th. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Malik Ecder Özdemir Melda Onur I'm going to process these two motions together. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0095par0672	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0094par0673	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0096par0674	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0094par0675	Mr. Kaplan, I'll give you my word first. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0097par0678	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, you know lawyers have a duty and obligation called a trade secret. When he meets with his client... there are European Court of Human Rights decisions, there are many comments on that issue. Attorney-client talks are not supposed to be heard because that's not supposed to happen in the use of a right that's sacred to the defense. Is that really the case? In F-type prisons, where the government has established its control -- mind you, F-type prisons -- I am the state's state. I mean, let alone the F-type prisons he calls the ring vehicle, the handcuffed travel cages, the trouble of going back and forth, the naked search of the tops, even after all these search points, transitions from the X-ray device, the eye scan, the hand scan, the examination room, the revir, the family physician's, cells, the narrow, the area where the rooms, the narrow 55-metre yard, how many rooms are opened, the areas of the interviews here, and the isolation, and the problems that have been said, even after all these search points. Neighbourhood, joint activities, art, conversation, sports, a few rooms together... those are the rights to a minimum disciplinary action. Phone bans, bans, disciplinary measures are given so easily... that the execution judges, you know, until recently, their decisions were final, even the prosecutors, in this case, the subject of the debate... the lawyer had no right to defend himself. The ECHR has brought up the issue of violations of such decisions. We thought we'd get him organized, and he wouldn't get back on track. All the open and closed visits continue to be a nuisance. Have you actually been to prison recently as a congressman? For example, I'm gone. We're interviewing five people, we're MPs, we're getting permission from the Ministry. We're being interviewed separately by five people. He goes in to meet five people separately, comes in from the ward, and five hours, one hour each. You'll be talking about the same thing for ten minutes, asking the same thing. There's a lot of serious discussion issues in the family opinion... the manager, the prosecutor's office... it's not possible for everyone, it's difficult. Libraries are important, especially for political prisoners who want to take books, study books, at least in part. But there's no end to the F-type complaints about the count and search pattern. Letter reading, letter commission, letter communication... So, when we're going through all of this together, it's the biggest test area of humanity, guys. A person you deny your freedom, who may be acquitted, who may be guilty of a false evidence, who may be released in the first trial, is being treated in such an approach that, in fact, you're going down from a high-security prison to a semi-security prison, why is a different rule, a different audit, a different case not wanted to be put in? I mean, why isn't this being solved that should be questioned here? Why don't there be fires in prisons recently, riots, people dying, why don't they stop? I just want to say that all of this is a system problem. As long as you don't set up the system for this, we're saying that the troubles go on, whether it's the gendarmes or the guards outside, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0098par0684	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Aldan is the second speaker on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0099par0688	Thank you. Mr. President, in the event of law enforcement, the 19th article is a regulation of this bill. If this law is passed, it will take a five-year period for this arrangement to take effect. I hope the regulations will be removed for a very long time, and the preparations will begin as soon as possible, and I care. In response to my speech on the generality of this bill yesterday, Mr. Justice Minister has made some statements, and I'm going to make some response assessments to him, and I'd like to continue with a little bit about the destruction of these men. The cancellation of the Tapes, the destruction of them, is really arranged in the third verse of the Law on Punishment, Article 135, but there should be an innocent party here, if the two sides are suspects, then this arrangement will not be valid. In addition, there is the second joke of Article 138 of the Penal Code, which, when it comes to the evidence obtained by chance, law enforcement forces must preserve them and inform the republic's attorney. When we look at the existing figures, we see that both sides are suspicious. The absence of testimony is not in question here, these nodes cannot be destroyed. On the other hand, I'd like to point out that if these members of the Commission were to be cancelled immediately, why did the Commissioner hand out these letters to the members of the Commission? So four months, since May, he's gone, and now he's come to his senses? These names are already in everyone's hands, even the deaf sultan in Egypt has them. This means that movies are playing around Turkey, and in cinemas, you're making a restraining order against those in Ankara alone, which is not the goal. The goal is to bring these figures into the illegal status of ▪tape, first to look after family ties, and then to get a new restraining order on the general part of this investigation. Now, I'd like to talk to you about something that I think might interest you. You know, this is December 17th, December 25th, when the D.A. decided not to follow. Now, this prosecutor begins his post on December 18th, demanding that all defendants remain in custody. When do they evacuate? On February 28th, they spend two months in prison. During this two-month period, this prosecutor has suggested that the arrests will continue. Also, the state's prosecutors can decide if there's no crime, so the judge won't even wait for his decision, but this prosecutor is providing an environment for the release by the judge's decision. He suggests that these defendants -- the suspects -- will continue to remain in custody, just as he did in the Lighthouse incident. The Lighthouse prosecutors decide to continue the arrest of all those current suspects, but one day, when strong will comes into play, they change their minds at that moment. Of course, at this point, I find it useful to bring up another issue, which has been denied by the magistrates to object to the non-obstruction of the December 17th and 25th investigation. But the reason for this rejection is that you don't have the right to apply. It's in the form of a formal rejection by the magistrate. The non-obstruction decisions can't be final, they'll be open when the day comes. Now, the current structure is trying to demonstrate: let's nullify these figures from the relational relationship, then invalidate them again because they've been made to listen to illegal decisions, so that in the future they don't become the basis of judgment, not the basis of evidence. But I repeat: the court's verdicts are in the strictty of the Kaziye, it's clear, it cannot be seen again unless it's in a very extraordinary state, but the decision of non-retribution is not final. In the current appeal, the defendants -- the suspects -- are innocent, the prosecutor's decision is correct. No decision has been made. The day will come, this box will be reopened, not a shoebox. My respects.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit01spe0100par0697	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. I would like to submit these two motions to your votes together: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 19 is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0100par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 616. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part includes jokes (1), (2), (3) and (4), (a) and (b)bents (a), (6) and (a) jokes (a), (a), (a), (c), (c) and (d)bents of number 9, (a), (b) and (b) lines of joke number 11 (a), and interim articles 1,2,3, and 4 (a), including Articles 20, and 22 (b). The first word for the groups on the second chapter is for the Republican People's Party Group (Cırklareli MP Turgut Dibek). Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0101par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. On the second part of the bill, dear friends, I stand to express the views of the Republican People's Party. First of all, I salute you. Not long ago, about a month ago, during the budget talks, I was talking about the budget of the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships. So I've actually tried to explain the fact that what's going on in prisons and prisons should be divided in numbers and properties of what's going on in Turkey before the AKP, before 2002, and today, as the period of prisons after the AKP. Today we face a similar bill in the same regard, this time about the safety of prisons. Here, earlier, you know, domestic security was being taken to the Ministry of Justice, and foreign security was being taken to the Ministry of Interior, to the gendarmes. Now, both security units will be transferred to the Ministry of Justice, and we're dealing with a bill. Dear friends, look, I'd like to remind you again of a few phrases from that speech I've made, and then I'll share with you a few things that I consider important. I said: In prisons, the numbers come out very strikingly during the AKP era in Turkey. Look, in 2002, before the AKP came to power, there were 59 thousand people in prisons, as far as I know, 59 thousand people arrested and convicted, but today... in 2014, I think I spoke in December 13th, not even a month. The number in the prison is friends from the Ministry's official website; the number I received at the time was close to 157,000, 156,700 people. Yesterday, while making his speech here, Mr. Secretary explained his thoughts on this bill -- as of today, how many of us are at the stove; here is the January 8th -- that there are 159,400 people in prisons as of January 7th. So you're looking at numbers, my dear friends, about 3,000 people added to the number from the beginning of that last December until today, so let's say, 3,000 people a month. In fact, yesterday, I asked the minister something in the QA part, and I said, "Well, Mr. Secretary, if this is going on, do you have any insights, when do you predict the border of 200,000 people in prisons?" Why did I ask that? There are still parts of the construction phase of the prisons, about, as far as I know, of the prison construction continues, but there are many prisons that have been closed, the county prisons have been shut down. So if this 200 grand goes on like this, dear friends, there's a number that's going to come up in a year, there's an increase like that. So if you hit an increase of 3,000 people per month within the year, you'll see about 30,000 people entering the prison in Turkey. And I explained the different numbers here, and I came in from a different front. These 156,000 or close to 160,000 people -- these are our citizens, of course, but -- what crimes did they commit in prison? Look, when we look at those criminal categories, we see this strange thing -- a Turkey, a AKP reality, the truth of AKP Turkey, and a photograph of it. You know, most people are serving time in prison for theft, for theft. About 33,000 people are in prison in Turkey for theft. Drug crimes are following this, 27,000. Maybe that number's up, there's some bureaucrat friends back there, and I said those numbers as of the end of 2012. Twenty-seven thousand people smuggling drugs, drugs, selling drugs, crimes... The looting, as we call it -- the public or the extortion that we know of in the past -- that's about 18,000, 20,000 people in prison for those crimes. All of this actually reveals a fact when you look at it. Dear friends, 80,000 people are in bed for these crimes, but the first offense is theft. So when you look at it, what do you evaluate it or overlap it, and I'll leave it to the public, you guys.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0102par0015	Is the theft growing?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0101par0016	How?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0102par0017	Is the robbery getting worse?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0101par0018	Yeah. The crime of theft has indeed become the main crime of Turkey - 30,000, 33,000, maybe 35,000 people, more than 20 percent of those currently in prison - unfortunately, dear friends - are lying in bed for this crime. Now, I wanted to share these with you, but, dear friends, right now, in front of Turkey, we've had a process with the decision of the latest investigative commission, and I'm trying to explain it on different platforms. Look, especially our congressman friends or public figures have made some statements. Perhaps so, but in an interview with the Minister of Health of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Muezzinoglu -- which is my neighbouring science -- he is also a member of Edirne Province, and in a sense we are his fellow citizens -- he had very strange explanations in an interview in a paper prior to the decision of this investigative commission. He's a Minister of Health. In fact, yesterday, I said in a program that the Minister of Health of Allah made these statements. I mean, it's not about the Minister of Justice or the Minister of State or the Minister of Defense, or a little bit more knowing, if the Minister of Interior came and made such statements, it would have a much more grave, graver meaning. He stood up and said, dear friends... These incidents have been asked, allegations. So I'm not going into the content of these claims; this, this, this, this is what they've come in, they've come in, they've gone in, we know about the talks, we know about everything, the Turkish community knows about it. In the polls, many of our citizens in Turkey know very clearly what is happening, what is happening, but the Minister said in a way that would be ridiculed with our nation's intelligence, as if he didn't know at all what was happening, he said, "Now, we don't hand over our friends who are in these allegations to the Constitutional Court." He said, "It's very interesting to me that the people who set this trap -- he says that they are being set up -- about the allegations of our nation's intelligence and intelligence -- he is the main element of the Constitutional Court of this system. I don't know, our friends, you might have the same idea. Yeah, doesn't the Supreme Court know how it came about? After the last referendum, the Constitutional Court received a new form of our people's votes with that referendum change with your proposals. There's a court of 17 people, a supreme court. Four of them, I believe, are still from the Sezer era, so the 10th President, Mr. Sezer, has chosen them, but the others, the 13 others, we chose 3 of them, we chose the Parliament, you know? So, this Parliament elected members of the Constitutional Court from two Courts and one from the Bars. The other 10 were chosen by Mr. Gul, the 11th President of this country, who came out of your heart and served as Prime Minister. I mean, 13 people were chosen in the new era, and they say, "Here, the main element of the system is the one who set the trap." I wonder who the father element is when I was given such an explanation. Now, you have to ask the Minister of Health if Mr. Gul is involved. So, the 10th President chose 10 people there. Mr. Rose has appointed 10 of these 17 things during his term of duty. One of the main elements of this job, that system, is one of the main elements of the ambush, Mr. Gul, according to the Director's Health Minister, is to ask, or I should ask you, since he made such an explanation. Dear friends, I mean, you have to be very careful when you say those words. I brought the Constitution here. In our Constitution, everything is written, meaning that in Article 2 there are the qualities of our state, the democratic, secular, social, legal state. Now, here's how the Supreme Court will be elected, after the last referendum; who will be chosen, what way will it come. Now, you get up, you can say these words so much that... the people, the ministers, their relatives, whatever... we've all been through that process together. I mean, we know how you try to change the law so quickly, day and night, starting in February, how do we save these people? But, my dear friends, I wonder if these people are rice cakes, are they the white spoons, the people involved in these allegations? Now, while we're having these talks, I think that among our citizens in Turkey, these are the words that I'm talking about. We all go to the courthouse, we go to the courts, we try to be judged by whatever judge we're up against, whatever court committee we're up against. I mean, I'm thinking about Mr. Minister's statements -- I'm talking about this on purpose -- and I'm wondering if Turkey saw such an invitation before chaos. I don't want these courts. We'll do it ourselves, we'll do it ourselves, we'll do it in our village, we'll do it in our neighborhood, we'll do it in our tribe. Brother, we have nothing to do with judgment, we pull out our own rotten tooth. I think from now on, he might say. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0103par0026	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Kütahya MP Alim Ik on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0104par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the second part of the draft of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law, 616 rows in session. I hereby salute the High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to share my opinion on a number of issues in the agenda of the last days: I would first like to state to the law that the decision of the AKP members regarding these allegations would be a serious coup and a historical error, especially for the record, following the decision of the Grand Assembly's investigative commission to investigate allegations stemming from corruption and bribery operations. This would be a second mistake for a group of nine who took away the rights of four former ministers to defend themselves in the Supreme Court, and I want to draw your attention to that. Secondly, I would also like to express my confidence that the opinion that some ministers and lawmakers recently shared with the public as lynching the highest judicial body of some ministers and members of the Constitutional Court. I hope this is not the AKP's view, and I want to express my good intentions. The criticised members of the Constitutional Court, and the supreme institution, were the institution that saved AKP (the AKP) in the closed case in 2008. I'd like to put it on the record as a historical contradiction that the Supreme Court, which you spoke of that day, had a lynching order today. The third issue: I would like to express that, under the name of the Civil Solidarity Platform, without the approval of individuals or NGOs, the declaration, issued under many names without their knowledge, is a coup, and indeed, the Supreme Assembly should not accept it, and that the coup of the national will should be severely condemned, and I would like to say that we ourselves are condemning it. Dear lawmakers have expressed their opinion on the Bill of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law. In particular for improving the rights of the officers working at the penal execution institutions in the second chapter, I would like to say that the lower commission is a contradiction to the decision taken by the Council of Justice and Development Commissioners, as well as by other opposition parties, which have been accepted by similar proposals and contributions, by the top commission, which has been withdrawn from the decision taken by the commissions. And the subcommittee of the same party, in order to solve this problem, you have to make these improvements. He's going to say, he's going to make a motion, he's going to be accepted, he's going to participate in it, and when we're on the top commission, no, we're wrong here, the finance bureaucrats have an objection, he's bringing a serious burden on the budget. You're going to trim it, you're going to withdraw it. It's unacceptable. Finance bureaucrats also take part in subcommittee work. If that's true, then the IRS bureaucrats should have come and told me that this wouldn't happen on that commission. However, the government's work and the study of the values adopted in the subcommittee show that the defence is not valid, compared with the salaries or total revenues obtained. If the reduction of improvements that will affect people's salaries for 100, 200, 300 euros will ruin the government's budget, and we want to make it clear that it is not right to shave with this excuse on a subject that has a total burden of 2, 3/000ths of the budget. I would like to propose that our motion on this matter will be reconsidered by the High Assembly and stop interfering with the employee's rights and our motion to accept our motion. On another subject: Of course, there has been no improvement in the additional indicators of personnel working in prisons. In the matter alone, the director of the prison was subject to a change of name as director of the execution institution, but there was no change in the number of indicators on the additive table. We also think it would be right to give additional indicators to public officials who are normally in the same positions as other public institutions and institutions, which the manager and other employees deserve in their additional indicators. Another significant victim is the victimization of personnel who serve as second principal in prisons. We feel that this sacrifice must be resolved. There is no arrangement for them, and we certainly think it would be helpful to include them in some way. The other issue, particularly the staff who work in prisons, is what I'm going to refer to as their opinion: instead of the general management services class, the request to be included in the more appropriate safety services class is a right request. Now, you give personnel who will conduct security services of the penal execution institution the right to intervene, if necessary, to engage in armed intervention, but you assign them to you as an officer in the general administrative services class. This will cause serious problems in the practice, so I think it would be a better way for them to move to the position of staff in the safety services class. Again, we think it would be helpful for all prison personnel to benefit from the right to wear down and if possible, to make sure that the demands to reflect it in the past are evaluated and applied to this bill. The demand for additional indicators to be leveled with the staff of other institutions that conduct similar tasks is a valid request. We think that would be helpful to consider. We would like to state that the demand to amend justice compensation rates with support for the motions to be made here, as agreed in the lower commission decision, is a very good one. Again, the request for the right of the prison employees to form a union and become a member of the unions is a valid request. We feel that this must be accepted. Again, the request of the state to appoint an advocate for the staff who are on trial for their duties is the right request, an important request to ensure prison personnel. We think that would be helpful to consider. In addition, the demands for overwork, or overtime fees, are again the right demands. We think it's useful to consider that, too. I would also like to share with you the idea that even though there are regulations for the use of force in the relevant legislation, they are useful to reassemble under a roof and be clear. And finally -- Mr. Minister of Justice is not here -- but the Kütahya courthouse, which has been promised to be held in the province of Kütahya, and I salute you with the promise of the Kütahya prison project and that the demands that we repeatedly make for the establishment of the Kütahya tax court and the administrative court will be fulfilled at least in the last term, in the name of my citizens of Kütahian, in the hope that once again the bill will be a blessing.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0105par0048	Thank you, Mr. Light. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0106par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. Is there really justice in Turkey, friends? Do you believe in it, or do you believe in it as Congress? I know the citizen knows there is no justice, he says. Justice has never been as much in this period of time as... look, the special authorities, the Anti-Terror Law, censorship and crimes against the press, notice, the crimes of certain types of crime in the National Security Policy Document - crimes in the Red Book -- the state is working strangely in that regard, as well as the prosecutors. According to the Anti-Terror Law, the state is comfortable with its citizens. We've had 1,100 hearings, prosecutors working for us, 1,100 of which is four times the total of three other parties. It's all thought explanations. So, is there a law in this country that works for economic terrorists in corruption, corruption in tenders, corruption in economic crimes like bribery, is there a system? You can't show me an example of this because there's an app in the public conscience that says these crimes are protected. Now, where there's discrimination, there's no justice, my friends. If there is discrimination due to his identity, his color, his territory, the group he belongs to -- which you know there is a ban on discrimination in the Constitution -- I mean in Turkey, if 60 percent of the population is other citizens, then there is no justice in this country, friends, there is no justice in this country. Consider: In Turkey, some go to prison, others don't. Notice that some of them go to prison very comfortably, and some of them don't, and they're very well protected; then the laws are passed, they change the system, even from commissions to... Do you know that in World War II, this is probably the famous word -- that if someone's door is knocked on, it will be someone else's turn when he speaks? They called it military custody, 463 officers and generals were brought in from Ergenekon, from Sledgehammer. More than 10,000 Kurdish politicians were taken from TK investigations, and still our mayors, our mayors, our mayors, our mayors, both in prison and in private authority courts have been closed, but they have made decisions in prison. Due to the decisions made by those special authorities, the special court courts are not fair. It has been said that the courts are closed, but in the Supreme Court, that special authority court remains the 9th. They've all been fined this month at the Department of Corrections. Now I have to ask, no killing, no injury in those files; a thought statement, 15 years, 20 years for a press release. Now, for over five years, our Idil Mayor, Ambassador Sadak, Silopi Mayor Emin Toğurlu is still in prison, and his files are coming to Ankara, going to an Insubordinate Court, where files are being moved. Right now, the files were last seen on Sincan High Criminal Court's side. There are 200 heavy-duty files in the Sincan area, my friends. With the murder of Ape Moses, the files of JİTEM have all been brought to Ankara, all of JİTEM's files, and those who have also committed murder in Darsegit. Look, the files of those who have killed and murdered six of our citizens have gone on a trip, and he has come to Ankara for security reasons. But does Ankara have security, friends? For security in Ankara, there must be law, justice. I mean, if the government is the perpetrator, is there security to protect the government? Will he do justice for them, or will he judge for them? I mean, what if he's poor, he's poor, he's homeless, he's got no uncle, he doesn't have money? They're going to jail? People have a sense of rebellion that says: "What is this sense of justice? What is this sense of justice? What? The most important thing in Turkey is that there is no justice. The President had rebelled the other day, he was shouting at a meeting -- I think he was in -- is there no justice in this country? Well, if the President is asking if there's no justice in this country, after 12 years as Prime Minister, then justice is wanted, my friends. I mean, why is he wanted for justice? I mean, is treason just gonna be written on somebody's forehead because it's Kurds, so committing crimes against the people of this country, depriving them of their freedom, getting them into prisons, judging them in extraordinary courts of special authority? What if the powers of this parallel came and brought these people in? Why is my brother being punished while he's inside? Yeah, we're going through a solution process, a process of peace and democratization. We're talking about solving problems the democratic way. If my mayor is serving 20 years on a press release, can you tell me how you're gonna make up? People in prison have expectations, you have prisoners, you have prisoners, you have sick prisoners. Now -- how do you get justice in a system that is crippled from beginning to end, in a system that lasts injustice? In theory, everything's fine. Open the Constitution, there is justice in it, the Constitution is in Article 90. The European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court, all of them justice, equality, independent justice, impartial justice, that's all stories, friends. There is still no justice in the country if there is no law to eavesdrop, if there is no secret witness' law, if it is taken from its house in the middle of the night in handcuffs, because a well-known person has thrown it away, an invitation is being issued to the press. It starts with no offense, then it starts with the D.A.'s office. A 14-year-old boy was killed yesterday in Cizre. The D.A.'s office immediately issued a confidentiality order. Why? No plates, armored vehicles will kill people in the streets of Cizre. Is there such justice? One of them didn't say, "Sister, a 14-year-old boy was killed." The manager of the trading room was killed on his way to his house. If they are not spoken of, it will be difficult for him to go to the prison of justice in this assembly. Well, that's the whole point. Friends, justice is over in this country. We need to redesign this whole system from prison to half-open prison before we can catch it, all the mechanisms of this system need to be changed. The Supreme Council of Judges, Prosecutors and Judges, all of this needs to be changed. Justice is for everyone, it's his last port, it has no other port, no one's friends, we want to express it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0107par0066	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the person, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. No. In the name of the person, Iconian MP Harun Riflesci. Here you go, Mr. Rifleman.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0108par0071	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding this bill concerning the safety of the criminal execution institutions. I salute you all with respect and respect. Dear friends, the AK PARTY authorities have made very important reform decisions regarding the judiciary. First, the trials of the judiciary, the physical possibilities, and what can be done in this matter have been put into action and signed for reformal work. Everyone knows that courthouse buildings are now being liberated from the bottom of the stairs and turned into a palace. Today, criminal execution institutions are also being signed up for some very important physical work, and of course the prisoners and the prisoners are our people, and they must be made arrangements for the standards of life there. Our government is taking very important steps in this matter, in heavy prison centers today, even in the remotest district, making both courthouse palaces and execution institutions, continuing physical improvements. Not only in this area, of course, but in the most important steps have been taken in the sense of reformism, especially from reprimands and warnings, until the Supreme Military Government's decisions are brought to justice. Of course, that's not enough. Of course, there have been some very important regulations about our judges, about our prosecutors, about their rights. They know their position 12 years ago, and right now, the judge in the judicial community, the prosecutor's deficit, the staff deficit, the clerk, the death guard, the bailiff, the new purchases are going on in every area. Of course, this new arrangement, dear friends, will also provide a new field of employment. Of course, while domestic security has been provided by the Ministry of Justice so far, foreign security has been granted temporary duty to the Ministry of Interior General Command in 1937, and in 1983, this has been linked to the Ministry of Interior for Foreign Security in terms of the organization. But we've seen that the transport of the patients, when the prisoners were sick, when they were transferred and sent to the hospital, and other transports, and inside, by the guards of the execution, visitors from the gendarmes would be searched, and there were problems like that. In short, Homeland security and external security are the default fraction of each other, the complementary part of each other, and it was necessary to compensate for the lack of this issue. So we've come to the conclusion that with his power and opposition, we need to take a step forward, and as of now, by linking foreign security to the Ministry of Justice, we'll be bringing with us a wholeness and a co-existence. This arrangement, dear friends, won't just provide it. Of course, the dispute between institutions will eliminate some of the dispute between them, and it will remove the tribulation. Of course, the work of these different ministries was a problem. This problem, hopefully, when this bill is passed today, we'll be able to work it out together. Dear friends, again, it was a fact that all expenses were taken from unnecessary correspondence. Again, in light of these studies, our Ministry of Justice is capable of performing external security services, and the fact that external security services will be conducted by expert personnel will increase its capacity for execution services. This is the same arrangement in comparison law, in Austria, Germany, and in many different countries, and we have carried out a proper arrangement. I already wish this bill, which I believe will be passed, would bring good, and I salute you with respect and respect to the esteemed committee.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0109par0080	Thank you, Mr. Rifleman. On behalf of the person, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0110par0084	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on my own behalf in the second part of the proposed bill. I salute you all. Mr. President, our class is illegal wiretaps. In fact, it was done by the Justice Department and by the Justice Minister's hand, with the Department of Justice inspectors. Now, all of these documents in my file are illegal wiretaps against judges and prosecutors, requested by Justice Department investigators. Who's in these? Now, at that time, charges of being a member of the Ergenekon terrorist organization are being demanded that they be heard by then Justice Department Chief Inspector Mehmet Bee. I don't know where he is now -- if he were a minister or a deputy minister -- this is Chief Inspector of Justice Mehmet Bee, I don't know where he is now. At the time, the İstanbul Court of Special Prosecutors has decided that some judges and prosecutors should be heard because they are members of the terrorist organization and that they are acting under Article 250, sending the file back to the Ministry of Justice. This is one of the crimes committed in the line of duty, not in my line of duty." he says. Minister of Justice, Mr. Secretary Sadullah is sending a letter with Ergin's signature. No, it's a personal crime, membership in a terrorist organization, not in the line of duty, it's in your jurisdiction." He says, and the second time the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office can't resist its arrival, he sends it to the court, and the court says, "My brother, this is not in our jurisdiction, but in the law of who will be tried." Now, listening to this, of course, I won't tell Faruk Eminayaoğlu, he's a notorious member of the Ergenekon terrorist organization, he's known. I'm not going to tell you about Osman Bakmaz, he is also well known, but look, Aykut Genghis Engin is the Chief Public Prosecutor of İstanbul then, again, Ali Çakır is the judge and continues, Aydın Çakan, Cengiz Koksal, Ercan Yalçınkaya, Assat Toklu, İşktin Serke, Hüseyin Boyrazoğlu Ankara, do you know where he is now? At these last appointments, the Supreme Court has been appointed. Moving on, Metin Burner, who's this? Who is this Metin Burner? So he's a member of the Ergenekon terrorist organization, and they're bugged, and they're tapped on the phones with IMEI numbers. I'll tell you right away, the person named Metin Burny is 532 327 1393. I'm getting a lu phone. Now, this gentleman is the VP of HSYK, friends. Again, at those dates, we all know that this gentleman, inspector, wants the detection of communication again. They don't get enough of it this time, and they want to hear about this New City Telecom plant, including the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is in my hand, here, in Nortele, writing. It's all in the Minister's hands or the Minister's bureaucrats' hands, my friends. It's a disgrace. At that time, our dear brother, who I trusted as a lawyer, who was then our Group Vice President, Hakk Suha Okaya, the Ankara MP, is making a motion to ask Sadullah Ergin. It's about the hand of Justice Department inspectors of judges and prosecutors. Of course, as always, after the Ministry has given long answers to the math, after passing the law clauses, sir, the Ministry has done its duty as inspector. Off-duty crimes, these are members of a terrorist organization, he says. It's here, it's signed by Sadullah Ergin. Now, friends, members of the terrorist organization today have been acting president of the HSYK, members of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0111par0091	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0112par0092	Is Sadullah Bey parallel?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0110par0093	I don't know about that.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0111par0094	Now we're going to question-answer. We're going to do this in 15 minutes. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0113par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister, if only he were the Minister of Justice. We have friends who work in prison on the tech staff. Our fellow technicians are unable to take advantage of the extra hours used by correctional guards. Although they spend all of their days in prison with prisoners and prisoners, they are not granted the right to a gun license granted to the death guard again. Does your Ministry have a study on this or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0114par0100	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0115par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I think it's better that you're there because it's about the question I'm going to ask. Now, we're talking about prisons, but I get messages from different times. People are also posting photos from the southeast, sending pictures from the housing of our public officials, Mr. Secretary. I don't want to name any different places, different counties, different counties, these are houses where our military officers live, plus other public servants' residences. Inside the rooms are from far away or from where, but close, there are multiple gunshots, there are multiple bullet marks on the walls, and these people are saying: "Who are we going to tell about the trouble we're having here?" So Turkey doesn't know about it, it's not on TVs, it's not in the media, it's not in the media. In fact, when these issues are mentioned, I think there's trouble there as an internal issue, which means there's trouble within the institution, but there are problems like this. They have wives, they have children, they have great fear. But it's like they're stuck in a prison there, too. Are you aware of any complaints about this? How are you going to inform us about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0116par0106	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0117par0108	Mr. Secretary, in statements issued by Libyan authorities these days, I say the Libyan authorities have expressed your support in your day, that today's Prime Minister is carrying suitcases carrying money, Libya has been dragged into a fragmented, civil war and has no authority, but they have made statements that they will bring down Turkish planes. The Foreign Minister calls on Turkish citizens to leave or not leave the country. Now, I want to ask you: What is the reason for this attitude toward the Turks that you have contributed so greatly to his arrival today? Could that be because you're dressing up as the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, or is there another reason?
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0116par0110	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0118par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2003-2004 the Justice Department Department's Office of Technical Affairs had begun its operation on Topside. Last year, the Ministry evacuated this building and assigned it to a foundation and moved its Küçükçekmece Courthouse to a building in Sefaköy. This building is claimed to belong to a ruling party member and has been paid a high rent. I've filed a question motion on this subject, and my question motion has not been answered for nearly six months. Do you have any comment on this -- I'm asking you verbally -- right now? Is he a member of the AKP, and how much rent does he pay? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0119par0115	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0120par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we don't have a Minister of Justice there, but you'll have to get information from the bureaucrats. Those who are the second warden of the prison will now be recruited by the vice principal's staff, and they believe that their rights are missing. In this regard, they have a reaction to the appointment of vice-principals of those in the position of the second warden of the prison, to the removal of their rights and staff in such a manner as temporary material. What do you say? And, Mr. Secretary, the Butler Courthouse has just been built. Next to him is Butler County Hospital. But there was a cell tower built in the building of the public hospital at the footman. It was opposed by NGOs, but we couldn't prevent it. There's a cell tower above the hospital, and the courthouse is right near it. It's the health of both the hospital there and the courthouse staff there. Will you have any attempt to remove the base station, at Butler State Hospital? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0121par0122	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0122par0124	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to say that we will respond in writing to my fellow lawmakers who have not been able to get the answers from the questions asked -- the bureaucrats have received their notes. Mr. Köse had a question: "Why are the technicians not given overtime and a gun license from the rights of execution protection?" Technicians don't provide security services, so they provide technical services. He's entitled to overtime, but they don't have gun rights, they don't have licenses, I'll tell you that. Another one was not answered in the form of our request for a question concerning the Court of Minority -- Your Honor said it in the original day. My friends have expressed that it was signed this week, and I think the answer to the question has been sent, and if it does, I'll open the same text and read it to our MPs from here. Again, another question by Mr. Yilmaz (Mr. Yilmaz) is: Is there a reduction in the rights of the 2nd principals? There will be no loss of autonomy of the 2nd managers, even if the 2nd managers are assistant managers, the rights of their rights will be protected. There has been an answer, which I would like to point out. Again, Mr. Akar said the most recent explanation of the Libyan authorities. Regarding this, as you know, January 7th, as of yesterday, our Foreign Ministry has an explanation, and I would like to read it:, on a Facebook page allegedly owned by the Libyan Air Force, it is noted that civilian or military Turkish aircraft entering Libya will be shot down. There's no way this irresponsible and internationally illegal statement is acceptable. We strongly condemn this hostile statement targeting our country. The aircraft, which belonged to the United Arab Emirates, bombed Libya. It is trying to try, and despite the bombing of Libya, there was no reaction despite the death of civilians. Therefore, I bring to the attention of the public who reacted reasonably in Libya. It is clear that those who made this statement were certain areas that caused civilian casualties in Libya, destruction of the country's infrastructure, and violation of international law and human rights. In some ways, we, as Turkey, favour the territorial integrity of Libya. We support and defend the launch of parliament, created by elected lawmakers, but some, with Libya's chaos, are trying to somehow ensure that other neighbouring countries are used as financial resources by the division of Libya. We say that this is not true, that if there is wealth in Libya, it should belong to the Libyan people. The fact that the international community so far has not responded sufficiently to air strikes -- that Libyan air strike -- has undoubtedly encouraged those who made this irresponsible statement. Civil flights in many cities between our country and Libya contribute to the meeting of humanitarian aid or economic needs of the Libyan people during this difficult period. • Our travel to Libya is not only at the request of the Turkish side, but also at the request of Libyans. Because coming and going is also a great means of transportation. If not even a plane arrives in our own provinces, start flights from the minister or anyone concerned. We demand that you start flights. As you know, Somalia is only connected to the outside world through Turkish Airlines. Thus, the flights to Libya also meet the needs of Libyan people, not ours. Attempts are being made to deal with the matter. As a matter of fact, he first made an attempt by the Libyan Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations. In the case of Libya, we have no policy. Who caused Libya to become like this, and who caused Libya to become like this? All right, those who flew in and bombed Libya -- the most obvious bombing -- and those who didn't make a sound about this bombing, who encouraged the bombing, are trying to support one of their neighbors by breaking Libyan people up, splitting them up, again -- as I told them to. The international community's lack of reaction is seen as our support for those who make this statement. I'd like to say it's not true. Another question, Mr. Turgut Bey. Indeed, from time to time, there are attacks on housing in some parts of the southeast. Hence, we always say that public order must be maintained. Is there a public order now? Steps are being taken to ensure public order. That's why there's so much trouble. They want to, let alone, be there as they know they want to be the same old Baas party in the East, so they want to make a single. They'll either be committed or they won't accept anyone else but this. Therefore, we want democracy to be fully implemented throughout Turkey, all over Turkey. East or west or north or south. But it will take a process. Hopefully, if we maintain unity and unity, these will go down, and in some time, they will all disappear. There's no one who's ever done their illegal acts and hasn't been brought to justice. So we've had martyrs, and there have been people who've been killed in the middle of the street, but I'm guessing that anyone of each of them has been brought to trial, in the face of justice, in the eyes of the law. Reverend President, that's all I had. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0123par0132	Mr. Secretary, I told you it was a cell tower.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0124par0133	Thank you...
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0122par0134	I'm sorry, Reverend President, he asked about the cell tower.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0123par0135	The cell tower above the hospital.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0122par0136	Okay, okay. You know, there was a cell tower here in the Supreme Court. Okay, look, I'm just saying this on purpose, it's not scientifically determined that it's a health hazard. Even though these phones, or these computers, or the radiation that these TVs have emitted less than two meters away -- or whatever kind of threat we're looking at -- are much more important, the cell towers are being brought forward. Once we get the Baz stations, there's no communication, no contact with the doctor when there's an emergency, and when there's an emergency, you can't call an ambulance, there's trouble. But I say this is a separate discussion, something in scientists' reports, but I believe there's less than this, television and computer. Other than that, it's still available -- and every technology has its price -- and if anyone's uncomfortable -- it's been in court -- the judicial path is open -- you know, it's not always closed, it can appeal to the judiciary, it's happened in a few places, the court decides to remove it, and it happened here in the Supreme Court. So it doesn't have to be in the court itself, it's in the state hospital. You said.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0123par0138	Because it's a side-by-side building.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0122par0139	Yes, it is. And so I say, all those in the courthouse, the judges, the prosecutors, those who know the law better, those who are closer to suing, they file a petition, they start a case, and if the judge thinks that it's harmful to the Servants there, they decide to remove it. Thus, this has been done before in Ankara. It's for your information.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0123par0141	There's a little more sensitivity since he's in the hospital, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0122par0142	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0125par0143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have a short window. Mr. Acar, come in. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, even if it's not about our law, I'm asking you to give me some information as to which areas these court of law will be set up. Because when Antalya, Burdur, and Isparta are all the same cities, we have heard that these provinces will be bound to the Court of Reputation in Konya. Is that true? If it's true, what's the motive? From so far away, how will people go to Iconia? Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Acar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0126par0151	Thank you. The answer to the question of Mr. Acar is now prepared, and I will give it to you. Meanwhile, Mr. Melda Onur had a complaint about the children who were staying with his mother. I would also like to inform both the public and the Assembly that, as of now, the number of children living with their mother in the 0-6-year-old group is 417. Sixty-five of them benefit from day care services. Due to his illness, he and his mother go to the Copperville Private Rehab Center for six hours a week with his mother. These children's institutions have been scanned. Other than our two children, there's no serious discomfort. Again, it's about children's toys, and whatever it takes, it's about the children's education, it's about the dough or something, which is provided to these children in the penal institutions.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0127par0155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're out of time.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0128par0157	Mr. Secretary, Ms. Melda had a request for an appointment on this matter.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0129par0158	The Minister has seen it well.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0127par0159	I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0129par0160	We've given the judicial community of court courts. Istanbul, Bursa, İzmir. Where is the judiciary in Istanbul? The 40s, Edirne, Tekirdağ are considered. Bursa: Balıkezir, Bilekik, Kütahya, Yalova, Çanakkale; İzmir: Manisa, Uçe, Aydın, Muğla, Denizli; Ankara: Eskişehir, Karabük, Kastamonu, Çankırı, Çırkale, Kırşehir; Konya: Aksaray, Karaman, Afyonkarahisar; Samsun: Sinop, Amasya, Tokat, Corrum; Adana: Hatay, Mersin, Osmaniye; Erzurum: Ağrı, Ardak, Bayburt, Erzcan, Kardı, Kardır, Tuğ, Tuğir, Batman, Afyan, Afyan Karaman, Afyan Karaman, Afyan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Çağan, Akı, Akı, Akı, İçı, Çağurı, Akı, Çağı, Akımurımı, İşar, İçımımın, İç, Akımın, İş, İş, İşar, İşar, İçar, Akar, İçar, İçar, İç, İçar, İçar, Akar, Akar, İşar, İşar, İşar, İçar, İçar, İçar, Akar, Akar, Akar, İçar, İçan, İçar, İçar, İşar, İçar, İşar, İşar, İşar, İşar, İçar, İçar, İçar, İşar, İçar, İçar, İçar, İçar, İçar, İçarın, İçançan, İçançarın, İçar, İçar, İçar, İçar, İşar, İç, İçar, İşar, İşarın, İçar, İşar, İşar, İçar, İçar
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0130par0161	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0129par0162	You're welcome.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit02spe0131par0163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thus, the talks on the second chapter are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-08sit03spe0131par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 616. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin the talks of the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan and the Kingdom of Hashimi, in favour of ratifying the Treaty on Nakline Dair. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Tuesday (January 13, 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
