tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz. Congressmans, please, if you'll be quiet, we'll be able to hear the congressman on the stand better. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My words begin with the sadness of losing Yasar Kemal, the legend of Anatolia, my condolences and mercy. In 1927, there were 400,000 people, 2 million 790 thousand people in Bursa; a city of history, tourism, art, trade, industry in the South Marmara Region; a major agricultural city, Bursa, due to the advantages of its geographical location and ecological structure; an efficiency level of efficiency is on Turkey's average; an agricultural-based industry that thrives in Burma, Ankara and Istanbul; a large number of provinces in the region of the Aegean and the Inland Anatolia region; a major agricultural city, Bursa, which blends with its sea, with its plains, with its sea. If we continue with the AKP's power that ignores these beautys, those who do not own Uludağ, those who do not decide whether it is an industrial city or an agricultural city or a tourist town; Gürsu, Kestel, Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa plains that do not care about drainage channels, those who leave their plains in water; Orhangazi, Gemlik, Mudanya districts, those who don't support those who don't support those who don't support the plants of cotton and canola; those who don't pay attention to the olives that are not raised in Busa, Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa; those who leave their plains under water because they don't clean; those who don't clean up the water; Orhangazi, Gemlik, Gemlik, and Mudania districts, who don't have a hundred thousand tons of foods in the fields; those who don't have a thousand tonnes of corn in the fields; those who don't have a thousand tonnes in the fields that don't have been growing in the fields; those who don't have a million in the fields; those who don't have a million in the fields; those who don't have left in the fields and can't have the fields. These negativitys take place during the AKP's reign, my fellow Bursian citizens. Do we deserve this? 30 acres of garden, building, equipment, technical staff, and those who shut down the Institute for Research on İpepbugism; those who shut down our Police College; those who have closed down the courthouse; those who carry the hospitals where they never existed; those who say that there is nothing to be done while the lotus Tea is flowing with dirty, heavy metal; the Newville Airport, which is abandoned to its fate; Orhangazi, Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa, is being cut down by 140,000 trees; although the alternative price is being applied -- its alternative to its alternative -- its new route; the new railway line is still waiting, the new one that has been cut down, and the new one is waiting for the new level of construction; orhangazi, Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa. In 2013, the amount of taxes paid by our Bursa residents is $6 billion,765 million, although the amount of investment it received in 2014 is about 534 million worth of lawmakers. The investments in irrigation and massification have stopped, the province's private administrations have been shut down, and those who have come to the village with the slogan Bin Pondet have done nothing to Bursa. Those who still cannot solve the land issue of the University of Industry, those who have seized the Ataturk Kent Forest (X), those who have allowed BESOB to continue, those who applauded the construction of the thermal plant in DOSAB, those who remained silent in the HeES, those who did not cover the wounds caused by the marble furnaces in Orhaneli Bashköy, those who ignored the village for the thermal plant in the Valley of Keles Koz. Dear MPs, in the June 7th elections, the Bursans will not be silent with you. The determination to bury the AKP in the chest, which began from Burma, will announce the rule of the Republican People's Party all over Turkey, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu's prime ministership. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Irony. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Rize MP Hasan Karal, who asked for a speech on the day of Rize province's liberation. Here you go, Mr. Karal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to speak off the agenda. I salute you all with love. During the national struggle, Greek Pontus and Armenian demands were raised on Rize. The Greek Pontus state, which was thought to be located on the Black Sea coast, was also seen as an important landing port on the Black Sea coast, so that the great Armenia, which is being built, could live. When the Ottoman-Russian War began, the Russians invaded Rize (Rize) on March 8, 1916. Whatever any occupation means, this occupation is no different from them. For two years, the sufferings and sufferings of the local people have been subject to mourning and singing. However, the Bolshevik Revolution was carried out by Lenin in Russia in October 1917. In this case, the war between Russia and Russia-Germany-Austria-Bulgaria was signed on December 15th, and the war between the Ottoman Empire and Russia was ended. On this deal, the Russians withdraw from their two-year stay on Turkish soil on March 2, 1918. This is the short story of our very short salvation, which we celebrate today's 97th anniversary of salvation. History is the most comprehensive book of lessons when it is taken as an example. It's a square of peace as much as wars, as victory as defeats. Those who learn from it and prepare themselves for the future have always been successful, and history has told us of their bright days. As Rize is the subject, I would like to present to you today's President, a brief document on how he took his rightful place in the civilized world, leading by Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan yesterday's Prime Minister. Rize is a city that has served as many as any of our other cities in the thirteen years of our government. The real salvation is to get rid of poverty, identitylessness, slackness, in a way. To this end, services have been taken to our province. One hundred and twenty-seven years of world projects from the Ovit Tunnel, from South Environment Road, from Rize Harbor, from organised industrial region, from Salarha Tunnel to East Black Sea industrial habitat, from Rize Airport, in health, in education, in sports, we have acquired and acquired a lot of huge investments. Here we are, with many projects that I can't reminisce about the investment pens one by one, endeavoring to move our paradise, Rizze, into the future. In addition, we've solved many problems in front of the sector, as well as our tea, which is the only source of livelihood in our region. Now our manufacturers can receive age-twist and support costs without delay. The most important establishment in our region, CHAYKUR, is the daily increase in capacity in the factories of our region, and with the scheduled system for age tea purchases, it is clear that our producers can sell tea more freely. In addition, China and our private sector have taken considerable distances in making Turkish tea world brands in recent years, with many variations such as organic tea, green tea, white tea, and cold tea. Honourable MPs, we are here to represent our people, we are here today, we are gone tomorrow, we breathe under the umbrella of mortality. Those who worked for both worlds of men always won and were loved by their people. Those who condemned their people to hunger, poverty, and, most importantly, those who were obsessed with their spiritual values, and those who were hostile to the custom, fell into the deep wells of history. Losing land, losing a part of the country, of course, is a very painful thing, but losing your generation is what's more painful than that. It's a little suspicious that young people who don't know why and what they're living for may have a country in the future. So we say: "Come, let us perform the services that are truly suitable for the human body and let history salute us." I salute your grand delegation again, and hereby salute all my citizens of Rizeli with respect from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Karal. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ezekiel Hilal Kaplan, apportionate to the issues of our retired citizens. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I salute Yasar Kemal, the great master of Turkish literature, who died at the end of the weekend, and ask for mercy, and I am sorry for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to show you a painting, a painting of shame in your power, and I want you to see it. Today, we have nearly 11 million retired citizens in Turkey. The increase to pensioners during your administration is 2.32 per cent. His motive, sir, has been 2.32 per cent in the last six months of 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, crows will laugh at this. If that's the case...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0007par0049	Why? There's a number.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0050	If anyone's laughing, they'll assume it's a crow.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0007par0051	There's a number, a number.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0052	If so, why do you receive the payment of taxes and tuition from 10 percent? Again, I'd like to ask you: How much does food increase year-on-year in the data of TÜİK? 15%. Water increases, 15 to 20 percent; electricity, natural gas increases 20 percent; transportation increases 15 percent. Okay, let me ask you something. When calculating these, why is 2.32 percent of inflation not taken? However, in the data of the Central Bank, where you fight every day, the annual inflation averages 7.5 per cent to 8 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you something. Someone might want to build a palace in this country, and there may not be inflation when they build this palace; their materials come from abroad, the most luxurious material comes from abroad, and there's no inflation in them. But when you retire, you say stop. I want to remind you, look, it's in this painting. A monthly raise to a BUG-KUR pensioner, a farm pensioner in 2015 is $14, which is 50 cents a day. Do you know what 50 cents a day is? A retired citizen can't drink tea. Yeah, it's a shame, isn't it? What kind of power are you? How do you call it strength from the people? Could it be a power that covets a veteran's tea? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if your conscience is clear about this, I'm not saying anything. The Constitution also assures us that the elderly should be protected by the state and that the pensioner should lead an honorable, appropriate life without a worry about livelihood. Well, then why leave the pensioner hungry and miserable, why do you need someone else? Look, I'll give you data: 73 percent of pensioners have to live on support from their children, 16 percent from their families, 6 percent from their municipalities and foundations. Now, I want you to know that in a country where their pensions are below the poverty line, there are about 60 percent of them on the edge of starvation. In fact, you know these things. You only think about pensioners when you come to get votes, but let's see what the numbers do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0008par0058	The citizen is pleased, Mr. Crescent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0059	I want to warn the Prime Minister. I've given up hope that someone might be after palaces and inn. If Mr. Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of this country, if he is the head of the Justice and Development Party government, I'm asking the Prime Minister to hear the voice of 11 million pensioners, speak their demands, make a decision as to why they don't come together. Besides, if this country came to this day, it's because of these pensioners who are working today.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0009par0060	We'll give you two paychecks.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0010par0061	He said, "We'll give you two salary bonuses after June."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0062	Dear lawmakers, look, pensioners don't get a cut of their national income before they get better. He'll get it during the Republican People's Party period. The president of the Republican People's Party has repeatedly stated that, hopefully, in the rule of the Republican People's Party, we will give pensions to pensioners on both religious holidays. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Besides, look, I made an offer on the law. Unsustainable pensioners are working. Dear lawmakers, you're cutting 15 percent social security benefits from working pensioners. Oh, is this the show? He's already earned his 15% social security benefits because he's already been working. Why are you cutting this? Hopefully, in Republican People's Party power, we'll give back this 15 percent social security benefit to our pensioners. You've set up a policy, we've organized it together. Still, unfortunately, you failed to correct the law of policy until 2000 to 2008. I hand over this Justice and Development Party government to my retired citizens in the June 7th elections. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If they're satisfied with the circumstances, let them continue to vote for the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0011par0068	Three months left, three months.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0006par0069	...but if they vote for the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party will guarantee that it will honor the pensioners. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to the members of parliament who entered the system, and I'm going to give the first words to the group's deputy presidents who entered the system, and I'm going to promise you two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. ▪ Those who read my books should be united with the poor. Poverty is the shame of all mankind. Those who read my books should be free of all evil. If justice is corrupted in a country, that country has been carved out. No power can save a nation whose justice has failed. In the eyes of the law, the bandit is one in Fine Memed, and so is Prime Minister Ismet Pasha. Just two sentences of his work, Yasar Kemal, which I have chosen to describe from his work, from his interviews. Thousands, tens of thousands of sentences can find tens of thousands of sentences to describe the problems of this country, our people's feelings, anger, ambition, hope, despair, sadness. We sent the great man of our literature, the enlightened man Yasar Kemal, to the mercy of Hakk. I pray for God's mercy, and for his family, and for his loved ones, and for our whole nation.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0015par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, the very valuable MPs; the agreements and declarations made by the AKP and PKK in Dolmabahçe Palace have shown that the PKK's terrorist organisation has officially been dealt with by the AKP's government and has accepted PKK's armed presence and its political intentions. The deal of the AKP government with a separatist and anti-religious terrorist organization, which has broken the spirit of the country, the republic, the identity, the nation, protected by our fallen martyrs and veterans in the name of terrorism and separatism. The AKP government has submitted its demands by preparing the PKK's homework. The country, republic, nation and identity have been abandoned to the demands of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) against separatist and religious enemies. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been adopted as a partner in establishing public order and has been cleared of the legalisation of the PKK as its own defence forces. The PKK has pledged amnesty and autonomy to its terrorist organisation. The AKP has agreed that the constitution of the nation will be made the constitution of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The government, which received the vote of confidence from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has found that the national will, the trust and sovereignty of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, have surrendered to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The statement by Yalçın Akdoğan (Yalçın Akdoğan) in place of the head of the Anti-Terror Ascension Board and the co-ordinator of the opening process, Bkent Arinc, also shows that there is no explanation in the framework of a legitimate task distribution. The agreement reached between the AKP and the PKK is a commitment to end the right to live in the national and unitary state we established as a result of the National Liberation War. The agreement between the AKP and the PKK is the constraint of the US-Israel-made Great Middle East Project process. The AKP-PKK agreement, which aims to end the Turkish nation's presence, the Turkish state, the national and unitary Republic of Turkey, has no political and legal legitimacy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0015par0089	Sir, report to the report. An alliance with our country, our nation, our republic, will be torn apart by our nation, like the Sevr Peace Accord, in the name of the so-called subsidiary of separatist and anti-religious Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0017par0092	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 97th anniversary of the salvation of our Rize. I congratulate all our brothers and sisters of Rizeli on this struggle for salvation. First of all, I wanted to point that out. Second, Yasar Kemal, an important figure in Turkish literature on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, has moved to eternity. The people who leave artifacts will not be forgotten, but will live on with their works. I pray to him for mercy, and to his kinsmen for mercy, and for patience.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0020par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, as the AK PARTY group, we, who come out of the bosom of Çukurova, offer peace messages to the world, spread it out, sensitive to social matters, and we say, "Let the soul be blessed, blessed, and blessed by the mercy of Yasar Kemal. " Again, we are in the year of the death of our former Prime Minister, the Defended Man, the late Necmettin Erbakan. As a man of the nation, we thank and thank the late Erbakan, a man of the heart and of the cause, who defends the right to injustice, and his place shall be paradise. Again, it will last a thousand years. We have left February 28th, which is called, disregarding the values of this people and turning the people's will against the gas. February 28th is the name of the greatest betrayal of the will and the future of the nation. It will take a thousand years. Today, they have found themselves in the garbage of history. Therefore, it is the greatest proof that the afterlife will be ruined by persecution. Mr. President, dear friends, a critical threshold has been breached in our Union, Brotherhood and Peace Project, which has been launched and continued by the initiative of our government, completely national, domestic and original. The transition from armed struggle to political struggle, the search for a solution to democratic politics. Let us enjoy the release of weapons, the end of blood, violence, suffering, instead of the rest of our nation. Let spring come to the mountains of the land, and sing the song of brotherhood instead of the mourning; that is our common longing, our desire. There is only one answer for us, and he is our beloved nation. Our nation's demands and expectations are essential to us. The solution to the 100-year-old problem is close to the eve, and at the point of the happy end of this solution, which has been found in our nation, the end of the ongoing tribulations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we care about the steps taken to ensure the inevitable social integration of this country, and we're waiting for the next step to come. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0021par0109	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Zozani...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's Democratic Party Group, express our regret over the death of the great writer Yasar Kemal. We express our condolences to God, to his loved ones, to all his readers, or rather to Turkey. Yasar Kemal was the voice of the peoples of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia. He's been bullied his whole life, he's had a lot of blows, he's lived in dungeons, but he's always been there for the oppressed, and with his life, he's been a guide to the people of Turkey, everyone who followed him. Hence, his death is a will for us. Adeta knew how to resist death for the last 45 days, until he heard the sound of peace in his bed in the ICU. Yasar Kemal died after hearing the voice of peace in this geography. So don't worry, big tree, new generations who grew up with your books will bring peace to this geography, to this land, of course, to your soul.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, by the Council of Ministers' decision, the subway line and a tram line of 3 capital cities from AKP have been transferred to the Ministry of Transport. The government is clearly here to be partisans. Before the 2011 elections, in June, in the Station Square, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that the subway would be handed over to the Transport Ministry and that the remaining 8.5km would also be built by the Transport Ministry, but four years have passed, while no step has been taken by the Ministry of Transport and a tram line of 3 capital cities from AKP, while 40 per cent of their income is cut every month by the Transport Ministry. And the decision taken ten days ago is still no Adana. From here, I urge Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of today's presidency to keep his promise to the Adanans in Station Square.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0021par0119	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0024par0122	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, last month at the University of the Aegean, a nationalist, nationalist youth named Fırat Çakıroğlu received the mercy of Hakk. His motive, the government, for political reasons... It's done by separatist, racist, more groups, separatist organizations that make the ground for themselves in clusters. In other universities -- especially at the University of Istanbul and Marmara -- these are the same things that have recently been happening to these patriotic children, who we refer to as nationalists, archipelago youths, who have recently been subjected to tremendous pressures, anarchist threats, violence. Ben invites the government's officials, especially the university's president, the administration, the Ministry of Interior, the governors, the police chiefs, the county police commissioner... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to thank you for their future responsibilities.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. As related to a thermal plant in the Organised Industry Region (DOSAB), the institution and organisations have not been asked by other ministries related to it, such as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, as well as by the Law on Information. What does it mean to justify Articles 19 and 23 of the Information Law for this request? Is that a trade secret? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0027par0132	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0028par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. The situation of Turkish children protected by youth agencies in Europe is crucial. Turkish children in Europe are being taken from their families for various reasons. Children taken are also given to foreign families, not Turkish families. As the little boy grew up with the family he was given, his name and beliefs were changed and a complete assimilation was applied. This is a complete human disaster. The number of these children is tens of thousands. For this reason, in the years to come, we will be able to face great problems as a country. As a government, measures must be taken immediately. A variety of NGOs, such as the Hope Star, have been working on this issue, are active in Europe. With them, the government's unity says much can be solved, I thank the great Council.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0027par0137	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. The loss of Yasar Kemal, one of the major figures of our literary world, has deeply upset us all. Yasar Kemal Çukurovali, whose literary identity and works are admirable, but more Ottomanian, Gavurdakülı, is my fellow citizen. As all Ottomans, we ask for the mercy of Yasar Kemale Cenab, who we respect for his literary identity and works, and my condolences to my fellow citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0030par0143	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0031par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sad to have lost our great literary man, the great nunar Yasar Abi, who we grew up to read his books. The voice of peace is the free thought itself, but I offer my respects to this great hope-rejoicing instrument, who prays for God's mercy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0030par0148	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. I too am deeply saddened by the loss of Yasar Kemal, an important author of the world's literature, not just Turkish literature. I bow before the memory of the saint. My condolences to the Turkish nation. I wish he'd sleep in the lights. Besides, there was a fire disaster last week in the village of Olivecik, one of the beautiful villages of my constituency, Artvin. In this fire disaster, more than half of the village was burned down. The joy is that no loss of life has occurred in any way. So there's nothing left of these 20 houses. I ask that our citizens in these 20 households, the government, as soon as possible, provide the necessary assistance to the village of Olivecik, to address their present victimhood, in the necessary consultations. And I wish my citizens, who were subjected to a fire disaster there, once again, to get past the Great National Assembly of Turkey. Hopefully, they won't face anything worse than this, and I'd like to ask you one more time. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. The great master of our literature, the thin Memed, representative of peace of Çukurova, the courageous son of Asia Minor, the voice of love of Anatolia, I honor and gratefully remember Dear Yasar Kemal. I'm sorry for Turkey's loss. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0036par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite being of Kurdish origin, one of the most beautiful novels of all time, I have a citizen who writes in Turkish, who advocates Turkish-Kurdish brotherhood and peace throughout his life, who remembers our family friend Kemal Sadik Gökçeli with good feelings and mercy, wishing his peaceful thoughts to dominate our country.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0037par0169	Mr. President, thank you. In many villages of Balıkesir, there is still a stable road. Every day, students who are moving to Gören-Newce on the road to the dam come from a terrible road. Especially the carriers are looking for me. These roads haven't been touched or taken care of in years. I wish the government would come back in the 12th year and see Balıkesir, and find a cure for these terrible ways as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0038par0172	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0039par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most important writers of Turkish and world literature -- although a friend of ours has just said "Osmanian", but Osmaniye had previously been linked to Adana -- I ask Allah's mercy to the late Yaşar Kemal. My condolences to our literary world and to its loved ones, its relatives. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0038par0177	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0040par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Before his last trip abroad, Mr. President, in an assessment of the talks between the PKK terrorist organisation and the government, he made a statement saying, "What did the PKK say during my two years as Prime Minister?" This statement has confirmed that dirty negotiations between the AKP and the PKK have been going on for twelve or thirteen years, not today. I call upon the government from here: I invite you to explain to the public what the dirty negotiations between the AKP and the PKK during the Prime Minister's term or during the current term of the Prime Minister of President Davutoglu, and to inform the Turkish Parliament on this matter. I share that with our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0041par0184	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0042par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, remember Yasar Kemal, our great literary master, who shared the truth of our land and the world with his works throughout his life, with mercy and gratitude, and ask God's mercy. My condolences on our country and our literary world. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0043par0190	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe Council of Latvia shall be held on March 4th or 6th 2015 in Riga, the capital of Latvia, and the Joint Foreign and Security Policy Interparliamentary Conference shall be presented to the General Assembly's approvals under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully request and demand that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104, and 105, of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Council, in order to determine the current problems of public defenders, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 6) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Yozgat]] 12) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzurum]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Samsun]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] The judiciary, one of three members of the principle of separation of forces, consists of three basic organs - claims, defences and decision-making bodies. Judges working in the public office, Republican prosecutors, prosecution and public defenders also perform the judicial function imposed on them by the state as their defense. Lawyers who work in the public office also carry out their judicial duties as well as administrative duties, since they have also served as representation and defenders of the executive body in judicial areas. Public defenders have taken on an enormous responsibility due to the case and execution monitoring files they are conducting, while they also conduct administrative tasks to ensure that the administration acts in accordance with the law and play an important role in implementing the rule of law. At the same time, public defenders who have also served as legal advisors of the state have a very important place within the state's justice system, as well as all the tasks they've carried out. However, there is a huge gap between public defenders for judges and prosecutors, who have been known for their legal colleagues, as well as their financial and social rights, which has not been closed for years. On the other hand, it is a constitutional obligation for the judiciary to be recognised to public defenders, representatives of the defence, the same independence and professional security that is recognised to the claims and decision-making bodies. In this regard, our Grand Assembly is tasked with a great deal of work to determine the current problems of public defenders, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, we respectfully request and demand the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104, and 105, of the 98th and TBM Council of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly T.C. Despite the decision of the Council of Ministers for agricultural loans and agricultural loans to co-optives, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the reasons why the Constitution has not been transferred and that the Constitution be opened under Articles 104, and 105, under Articles 104, and 105. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Paddles]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 8) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Kastamon]] 15) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tripoli]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 21) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] Agriculture is a strategic and sensitive sector that is vital to all countries regardless of the level of development. Among its significant contributions to national income, it is often the most important source of sustaining life as well as agricultural products, which are the producers of the lowest income in society. As it is known, on 28 August 2012 by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the Council of Ministers' Decision 2012/3570 to 28/8/2012, floods, floods, storms, heavy rains, snowfalls, frosts, hails, lightning strikes, and tornado disasters caused by the crops, crops, animal assets, plants, plants, or greenhouses that have been damaged by the farmer's Recording System (T.C.). Agricultural loans to agricultural and agricultural loan co-opters were said to be postponed by 1 (one) year if they applied to the Food, Agriculture and Animal Development Directorate and the institution where they used loans until September 28, 2012. After this process, the manufacturers -- based on information -- were disappointed when they went to loan agencies to delay their loans, it was said that debts could not be postponed. As farmers headed back to the district agriculture and livestock administrations returned empty-handed, it was stated that the decision made by the Council of Ministers could not be carried out by the Council of Ministers, with bureaucrats in the background of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism, bringing some comments on the dates in the Council of Ministers' decision. Another claim about the mentioned issue is even more dire. Almost all other cities in which there has been no such problem, but there have been problems in some provinces, especially in Adana. "Is Adana, the champion of unemployment, subject to negative discrimination in public investments, now being punished for canceling the rights of the transfer of debt? Can such a government function be such a government administration? Is it the decision of the Council of Ministers or the comments of the bureaucrats? Otherwise, the AKP government, who wants to look cute to the citizens, first take the decision and then tell the bureaucrats, "Stop following." Does he instruct you?" They ask themselves the following questions. It is a fact that the decision of the Council of Ministers must be adopted by all of us, in full and just manner, equal to all citizens of the country. As a result, despite the decision of the Council of Ministers, we would like to propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate the facts underlying the non-transferment of loan debts of producers who have suffered various disasters in some provinces and, in particular, in Adana. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the necessary measures for resolving the problem and to determine the urgent arrangements for preventing hate crimes in Turkey, we propose the opening of Parliament investigations on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Suleiman Senser Ayata [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 10) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 14) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Ardahan]] [[Tunceli]] There has been an increase in hate crimes committed in Turkey over the past ten years by racism, sexism, bigotry, alien hostility and so on. In hate crimes, the victim can be targeted only because of his identity as a group, except in a direct relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. In general, hate crimes frighten the victims and other members of their group and make them feel isolated, vulnerable, and vulnerable by the law. On the other hand, these deadly feelings and psychological effects of these crimes have increased racial, religious, and ethnic tensions, causing retaliation and forced migration. The international institutions, such as the United Nations (UN), the Council of Europe, the European Union and the OSCE, and the control bodies of international contracts that Turkey sided with have thus far issued numerous recommendations on Turkey. Turkish reports by the European Commission (ECRI) and the UN Committee for Resolving Racism (CERD) recommend that the government take urgent steps to combat hate crimes. The Council of Ministers' Committee of Europe defines hate speech as "any form of expression based on intolerance, any form of expression based on alien hostility, racial hatred, antisemitism and other forms of hatred that provoke, provoke, commend or justify." This intolerance also includes aggressive nationalism and discrimination and hostility against minorities, immigrants and other immigrant origins to see their group superior to other groups. In our country over the past decade, there have been lynching attempts against Kurdish citizens in İngöl, including the murder of Father Santoro in Tripoli (2006), the Hrant Dink murder (2007), the Malatya Summit Press massacre (2007), the Roma nationals (2010) and the violence of Alevi citizens in different parts of Turkey (2012) and the LGBT murders. In addition, many people suffer from violence, injury, or loss of life due to their beliefs, ethnic identity, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Deep social wounds that threaten to live together with these hate crimes have been inflicted, and trust in justice has been shaken. According to the results of the media and cases of civil society organizations fighting against hate crimes in Turkey, the categories of hate crimes are religion and faith, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. In our country, which is found in a multicultural and identified geography, there is discrimination and hate crime against Kurds, Alevis, trances, Roma and many different groups. The hatred speech of the victims is shaken by their commitment to the community, their personality is entwined. Hate speech causes deep and lasting psychological trauma to victims. The victim is unable to see himself outside the identity imposed by hate speech. Anyone who has been replaced and attacked because of the assumed identity is now condemned to establish his relationship with the community through this isolation. Hate speech and hate crimes destroy life together. If this destruction is concentrated on a particular community, it dominates the oppressive society climate and collective violence. We regret to see that Turkey is rapidly slipping into such an environment. Therefore, my hate crimes must be immediately established in monitoring and reporting mechanisms, and the public must be tasked with collecting data and archiving in relation to this area. A comprehensive law on hate crimes must be passed and the policies necessary to prevent hate crimes must be determined. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the head of the Belgian State Assembly and the delegation with whom are making an official visit to our country have now visited our Parliament. We welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Monday/3/2015 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 11 December 2014, by Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan and his friends (1186 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry proposed to the Turkish Parliament for the purpose of determining the environmental destruction of the mines operating in the coal district of Adıyaman province has been suggested to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Monday (November 2/3/2015) in the same date of the talks. On the other hand, Congressman Haydar Akar. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0044par0381	Mr. President, members of parliament, we're going to talk about the research proposal that Peoples' Democratic Party has issued on a district or a town of Adıyaman. Of course, this is a private town for me, where there are a lot of marble furnaces and a lot of marble furnace demands. Of course, when you say Adıyaman Province, the province of Adıyaman should be addressed by the Republican People's Party Adıyaman MP, naturally, but I condemn that friend of mine first because he stole the votes of the people who voted for the Republican People's Party and transferred to another party. Then I had to talk about our Adıyaman province as much as I could, but I'm going to try to share the troubles in Adıyaman County with you as much as I can by apologizing to all Adıyamans and by expressing their problems as much as I can. Nearly 15 per cent of the marble mines in Turkey are located in Adıyaman, and it produces about 2 billion tons of marble. This naturally contributes greatly to Adıyaman's economy. Of course, there are major problems with marble production when you say marble production. It's located here in a town, but the same marble production is found in Bilecik, and it's found in other cities of Turkey. When you go, you also find yourself in the marble mines in Elekcik, where you go, and in the marble mines in that coal town -- its name is Charcoal -- in which you find yourself. What's all this? The biggest problems are that because it's usually near towns and villages there, those villages and towns are rapidly corrupted, people are taken away from such comfortable travel freedoms, and they haven't been repaired for a long time. That's because heavy-tonne trucks use those roads. Now, that's what we call marble. When you look at it, we see that this problem has been faced in the entire Turkish mining sector -- whichever type is mined -- is mined. I mean, dig up marble in the mines near the villages, near the towns, dig out granite, dig out coal, whatever kind of mine you can think of, we can see that these roads have broken down quickly and no measures have been taken. So there's some work to be done here. Here we see once again that we have to think about this in the environmental impact assessment of the marble -- which is very close to the villages -- in the minen -- when you're granted political favours and licenses. Again, one of the biggest problems with marble is it's been dust and fragmented. When it is removed from the raw material of the marble, it produces about 30 percent dust. Now, dust has a lot of impact on dust; it has an impact on human life, it has an impact on animals living in the environment, it has an impact on vegetation, and it has a huge impact on natural water sources. Because, when mixed with marble water, it blocks the water channels, causing water channels, natural water areas, to change places when necessary. What needs to be done here is that 30 per cent of waste has been acquired according to European Union standards, which in 2014, a beautiful report on marbles in Adıyaman was written, and in several articles serious studies on how to evaluate these marble powders and marble particles, how to contribute to the country's economy. But who cares about these reports? There is a MiGEM, an institution that operates under the influence of politicians and we are going through a period of period of political torpedoes taking the lead, ignoring the environmental impact assessment report, even disregarding court decisions. Indeed, during the AKP period, villages, mountains, plains were looted. Not only the plains, but also the Adıyaman. Because of the plundering of the Mezas, Adıyaman, if I say so wrongly, my Adıyaman friends correct it, which is also in the reports -- livestock has reached the point of end, from the most important agricultural revenue sources to the end of animalry, agricultural areas have started to shrink. Of course, as a result, people began to migrate. The province of Adıyaman -- when I just spoke to my Adıyaman friends -- is one of the provinces in which there is not much population growth, but more emigrating provinces. I believe those beautiful lands should actually be evaluated. Now, of course, outside the roads, not only does the problem end in ways, but there are also problems with watery agriculture. There, in the watery agriculture that had previously been built, the roads and marble blocks that had been blocked by the marble mines quickly began to decline, changing the direction of the water. Now, my friends, we said it's not just Adıyaman's problem, it's all Turkey's. During the AKP period, such facilities, such mines were opened to operate without any measures -- work safety, occupational healthcare measures -- and the largest example of this lived with pity for Turkey in 2014. Where did he live? He lived in Soma. Where did he live? And he lived in Ermenek, and all our friends came out, and they said here that all necessary things had to be done so that this would never happen again, but they never did. This continues in the marble furnaces. There's no occupational safety or occupational health measures being taken, and they're being produced in those furnaces. There's another thing... it's not just that. So, how are we supposed to prevent them? We need to prepare serious measures, serious projects. If 15 per cent of the marble in Adıyaman is produced in Turkey, marble organised industrial areas should be created. We see that you have a little bit more interest in these industrial areas at this time, but it's not enough. So we're saying that he can't open a facility wherever he wants to, that the environment needs to be assessed, and that the Ministry of Environment shouldn't do this environmental impact assessment as just a dream. Now, we're getting dirty water from here. Since natural gas doesn't come enough to Adıyaman, they don't just have problems with marble, they also have an air pollution problem because natural gas doesn't come to all the counties, our Adıyaman city, but if natural gas does, it will continue to experience it. Why would she keep going through this? Because natural gas is expensive, friends. There is no way that our peasant citizens in Adıyaman, our fellow workers, our pensioners, will burn this natural gas. Our wish is to lower the price of natural gas. In fact, I'd like to suggest that instead of paying $4 billion for natural gas that we didn't burn, we didn't burn 4 billion, we promised to pay for natural gas -- to use this gas -- you made people use natural gas for free. You can get them to use the amount you give them to people with plumbing. We've suggested this before, it's the right suggestion. We're thinking of using it instead of paying for free. Now, from here, what are we going to do about this business, I want to come to this right now. Let me start with the water, and since it's environmental, I'll start with the water. We say the water belongs to everyone, and in the Republican People's Party's rule, hopefully, on June 7th, when this nation kicks you -- I say so -- when they chase you...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0045par0391	Is that what they did to you before?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0044par0392	You haven't solved any problems. ...the right to use water will belong to the public and will never be transferred. This means pulling out an ear for the HESEs. YOU also deceive people in HESES. There are two types of HES, you know, which are built on dams and streams.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0045par0394	These people don't kick, they don't kick, they answer in the trunk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0044par0395	THE HESEs, founded on streams, drain our natural water supply and destroy the environment, which is only 2 percent of the energy production produced in HES. I can explain this in more detail. With the participation of all parties, we will establish a fair water law under scientific criteria, my friends. We're going to call HES disasters halt. We're not going to do a mining and HES search in internationally protected areas. Everyone needs to know that. Private property will never be available in the Mera, because you've opened the meadows to private property, and you're ending our livestock, our agriculture, which is a lot of examples. The environmentalists and locals will use the right to meetings and demonstrations, the meeting and demonstrations they received from the Constitution, and they will not be prevented in any way. The Green Road Project will be reevaluated for the search for mines and HES, and concerns will be resolved. We say that the rights of future generations over this will be protected. In environmental investments, the CED reports will be prepared scientifically. Court decisions regarding environmental protection will definitely be carried out. We'll teach the President how to implement it in the first place, then we'll teach you how to apply it when you fall from power. He says there will be no court costs in environmental cases, the court will pay the court's fees, and the treasure will pay you all a lot of respect, and I say he's about to meet in the Republican People's Party government.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0046par0401	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Against Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0047par0405	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the HDP group proposal. I salute you. Just two thousand years ago, as the battle of Macedonia and the Persians continued, there was a civilization in Adıyaman: peace, peace, stability, it was definitely the name of a civilization that stayed away from war, Kommagene. Adıyaman is the home of Safvan, Adıyaman; Abdurrahman is the home of Erzizcani, Mahmoud Ensari, Abu Zer al-Gıfari. Adıyaman is your fall; his name is the name of peace, and his last name is the name of peace. Adıyaman is the name of a geography in which peace is waved to the Anatolian geography. Adıyaman is the name of the city that lives as a climate of brotherhood, peace, peace. Adıyaman saw services with the EC PARTY. Adıyaman began to meet with the AK PARTY. Let me tell you something about the spread of conversation, peace, brotherhood, which our Prime Minister has expressed to all geography today. Our Prime Minister has also expressed his advice, and he said, "If you wish to increase the conversation, we will send out the greetings."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0048par0408	The President says that he does not look at words, but the practice.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0047par0409	Adıyaman was a town that had responded for many years to the greeting of the Holy Prophet, a thousand and four hundred years ago. Dear MPs, Adıyaman has met investments. Adıyaman had a larger city appearance with the AK PARTY than a small province. These trainings are a reflection of the work that Adıyaman gave to our country from drinking water to roads, agricultural activities to industrial investments, tourism to airport, all fields, education institutions to health institutions. The Republican People's Party's precious MP spoke of natural gas, but there is air pollution in Adıyaman. There is natural gas activity in Adıyaman, in their districts, in Gölbaşı, in Besni, and in our stewardship. Adıyaman came with natural gas, and you couldn't come. Come with me. We invite you to Adıyaman.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0049par0413	I didn't say he didn't come. Did we say he didn't? Can you tell me what districts?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0047par0414	In private, I'd like to express our coal country. In 2013, our coal resort had work done on the roads.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0049par0415	How many people are burning? How many subscribers do you have?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0047par0416	Dear lawmakers, it's true, we are aware of the damage that marble activity has done to the drinking waters, to the roads, but it's also valid work to reduce these destructions to a minimum, and the necessary work is already being done. Only in 2013, our coal resort had a study of the roads. The first floor of the four kilometers has been paved with asphalt; this has been met by marblers because you are disrupting the road, then you will support it at this point. In 2014, the second floor was laid out with hot asphalt, and the whole road was repaired. A full $1 million grant was transferred on the 2015 programme, and the road was ready to tender. 7km of the 17km road will be interfered with, and the standard of this road will be even higher. In fact, there's a double road on this road, with 2,800 meters to go, 2,800 meters to go, inside the coal village. Although the municipality is within the service area, it will be done by special administration, as it was done earlier this year, and this way within the municipal service area in preparation for this tender.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0050par0417	Is the private administration budget coming from abroad?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0047par0418	In fact, I called our secretary general this morning. The private administration's vehicles and equipment, six of our vehicles, ladle, truck, cylinders, are currently operating in that area since morning. Plus, we have a study of this route through the coal district, taking the road out of the city as a freeway. We're still working to make this place comfortable. The areas where marble furnaces are located are not valuable parliamentary, mera area; this needs to be corrected. It is not permitted for marble furnaces. The land of our coal village, which is part of the watering site of the Kokali Dam, which has been auctioned off, will also benefit from this charming irrigation. At the beginning of my talk, I told you, he started seeing investments with the AK PARTY. There's been a bid on the Kokali Dam watering, and the work is going on. There's been a tender at the Cetintepe Dam, and the work continues. With the Besni Dam, which we're going to build together with Grandchay, we're going to bring a total of 800,000 acres of water in Adıyaman. Plus, there's a project called SNUAP. Under SDUAP, our coal village was built; it was auctioned in 2011; it was completed in 2013. The Ministry covers 50 per cent of the tender at $1,473,000, and the Bank of Provinces is owed 15 years. They had demands for drinking water; these demands are being evaluated by the Bank of Provinces, and the study and project work is going on quickly. As soon as these studies are done, I'm saying that our coal resort will also end up with a 50% grant under SDUAP. I hereby salute you with the Kurdish city of peace, peace, brotherhood, the city of Turkey, with the song of Alevi, with the song of Sunni, with the song of all songs, to Adıyaman, where all the songs are spoken as brothers and friends, to all your friends, and to your flock, and to all your precious deputies, and to you, and to you, with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0051par0425	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0051par0427	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0428	Mr. Orator said that by twisting what I said, natural gas was coming... that I said I wasn't coming, that he was coming; I'd like to correct that, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0053par0429	He didn't come. He didn't say!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0051par0430	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0434	Mr. President, members of parliament, thank you, my dear congressman friend has invited us to Adıyaman. I hope we'll leave as soon as possible, but I wish my congressman friend, Adıyaman, was as curious about Adıyaman as I was, that he would take care of his problems. Now, yes, I'm picking on you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0054par0435	You wouldn't find it on a map.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0436	I'd like to share with you the findings of the State General Assembly of Adıyaman, Environment and Health Commission in 2014: natural gas is used in our districts of Kahta, Besni and Gölbaşı. I said it was used in some of our counties.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0054par0437	Lakehead, you're alone!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0438	In other cities, natural gas will prevent our cities from being given to our cities and cities, and at the same time, to be given natural gas to our villages on the road that leads to or near our counties or through the natural gas pipeline, to be cut down for fuel, for the benefit of our people and for the benefit of our natural pollution, to prevent our forests, which are nature's lungs, from being destroyed. This matter needs to be addressed. The report of the Environment and Health Commission of the City General Assembly two months ago. I'd like to read who's in attendance, but...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0055par0439	That's what they do with his knowledge.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0052par0440	Again, about the environment, around us -- they talk about the name -- the dumps are being created. Our people who live in the area are disturbed by both the pollution and the bad smell of these dumps, which are very close to some of our villages. Our commission has expressed the need to be focused on this matter. Again, this report shows that milk, yogurt, cheese are not hygiene. If my congressman, my Adıyaman MP, doesn't know about this report, I can present it to him. I hope you'll make these changes for Adıyaman during your reign until June 7th, and I thank you for allowing Adıyaman to produce hygiene and to get rid of his problems with dairy products and animal products and environmental pollution.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0056par0443	I'm waiting for you, Adıyaman.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0057par0444	Thank you, Mr. Akar. In his favor, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0058par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion to investigate all aspects of the environmental destruction caused by the coal mines of Adıyaman Province. I hereby convey my regards and greetings to the House and to the people who are watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers, policies and practices on operating our underground wealth and contributing to the country's economy must be implemented on the basis of two basic principles. These are: one, to observe ecological balance; two, to observe the human factor. Unfortunately, we all know that these two principles are not at stake in the AKP's approach to mines so far. In all the mines in which the AKP's power operates, a massive natural damage is being done. Every area where the mines are located is turned into a massive construction site, and it's a waste of life. The damage to nature and life is not only limited to site sites, but a vast area of destruction is created by waste mixed with air, soil, and water. In addition, mining sites have a negative effect on human life in that area. People develop a culture in thousands of years of historical history by establishing a direct link to the nature of their habitat. The mines, run without regard for the human factor, destroy this culture and cultural heritage. The recent events in the Yarca village have been evident in recent months. A company supported by the government murdered 6,000 olive trees in one night, with the power he took without violating judgment. We've all watched peasants crying and rioting over olive trees slaughtered on screens. Not just in Yırca, but in almost every province of Turkey, we face a similar picture, ecological disasters, I'm afraid. Dear lawmakers, this policy is not only killing nature, it's slaughtering people. In Soma, the suffering of our miners who lost their lives in Ermenek is in the memory of us and the public. As it was reflected in the screams of a citizen who lost his wife in a mining accident in Ermenek, there is nothing to be proud of. he said. The legal arrangements that you have made today in a hurry, the false explanations that spurred the problem, will not save you from your responsibility for nature and human slaughter. When we look at it today, almost all mining business licenses are given to close-up firms of the AKP. In these companies, workers are employed under inhuman slavery. There is a complete lack of control over labour health and occupational safety. Unfortunately, the bill for crooked relations between the AKP's power and the company's owners comes primarily to our workers. Over 1,100 miners, unfortunately, lost their lives in those policies when the AKP was in power. In addition, it has become one of the three most problematic sectors in Turkey in terms of mining, business accident and occupational illness. Dear President, the high-value lawmakers, the AKP's government, which denies political responsibility, continues to open mines all over Turkey, ignoring the damage that existing mines do to nature and to man. The coal district of Adıyaman Province is surrounded by marble furnaces. At the moment, 24 active furnaces are available, but the number of burners waiting is 56. With all of these furnaces in operation, it is clear that human and living life will end in our coal village. We're warning the ruling party here: When the road is near, give up your profit-and-rant-oriented policies immediately, otherwise an environmental disaster would be inevitable if 56 more coal mines were to be activated in our town. In this town, 12,500 small heads, 5,000 cattle, are fed, and there is a rapid decline in livestock due to marble furnaces, and animalism will soon be completely dead. Because the areas where the stoves operate are also mera fields. With the Januarys in operation, these mera areas are being destroyed. The coal country, which makes its living hard to live by animalism, is being forced into economic straits while the marble furnaces are making large sums of money for the investors. At the same time, activities in marble furnaces are conducted without creating any infrastructure. For example, heavy-tonned vehicles are causing major damage to the roads, and road destruction is causing accidents. However, underground waters are dwindling and drinking water is contaminated. One of the livelihoods of the people living in the coal village is watery agriculture. Because of the marble furnaces, agricultural activity has come to a standstill due to the decline of underground water. AKP's mining policies force people to either work as slaves or abandon their own territory. The problem facing 3,800 citizens living in our coal district is undoubtedly caused by profit-oriented mining policies. This policy reminds us of Soma, Ermenek and Zonguldak. People whose livelihoods have been taken from them are practically forced to work in mines under inhuman conditions as a cheap labor force. In these conditions, people lose their lives, while close to the AKP investors add wealth to their wealth. Dear MPs, together, we must fight against nature and its mining policies that destroy human life. Adıyaman County is a coal district, and a research commission must be set up to reduce the damage done by mines to nature, to human and to ecological life, and to minimize the damage done. On this basis, I salute you all again with the confidence that our fellow lawmakers, who love their nature, their land, and their people, will support our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0059par0468	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Against him, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0060par0472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our fellow MPs, since the HDP group proposal today is intended for marble furnaces related to Adıyaman's Coal Land, I wanted to make a statement on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, as well as my knowledge. It is also a pleasure for us here to talk about Adıyaman. Let me start by saying, of course, that our coal resort is, in fact, a lovely town, a beautiful town, a land with a great proportion of the world's marble reserve...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0061par0475	Let's change his name.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0060par0476	And if there are any real problems in this town, no one has to worry about that. Yeah, can heavy tonage vehicles destroy the road because of marble? He can, I agree with that.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0062par0477	Let's investigate, Mayor. Let's investigate.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0060par0478	There may be some shortages, adversity, dust, and I would like to say this in particular, but let me also point out that we are never, ever insensitive to these matters. So far, we've renovated the coal road several times. Hopefully, together with our city's private administration, with the support of our municipality, we'll also be able to build that road that's much stronger, much heavier tonnages. Because it's been done before, but since heavy-tonned vehicles are gone, yes, the road is falling apart, causing some problems. And you'd appreciate that, of course, it's not easy, so a whole area is a marble reserve. At the moment, Adıyaman is a very important resource with 4 per cent of the world's marble reserve, and in the name of Adıyaman, it needs to be operated in some way in the name of Turkey's economy. Of course, it needs to be operated in a way that the people of the region can benefit, that the people of the region can profit, not suffer. With all of this, all of this balance, we'd have gone through a lot of that -- that there was -- that there was -- we'd go through a lot of problems. After that, we, the Adıyaman MPs, will also be able to solve the problems that can be developed in time, as we, together with five of our friends, with a profound pursuit, with deep tolerance, as we have done so far, in the process after that. Our efforts are also evident at the point of organised industry. In Adıyaman, a marble organised industry was our demand as well. We've also started the infrastructure work on this, I agree. Although there is a source of raw materials in Adıyaman, of course, many of the marbles removed will go out, but at least some of them will be operated in Adıyaman, where we will have to open some businesses that can benefit from both the Adıyamans and the employment of the Adıyamans otherwise. We'll take it all under advisement. First of all, I'd like to point out that in the Mera fields -- of course, it's very expressed -- you don't get a marble stove permit. So the areas that are hot are not mera fields. We care deeply about agriculture and animalism. In the period of AK PARTI power, a total of 600 million and 600 trillion Adıyamans have been supported in agriculture. Again, in all, we invested about 7 billion dollars in Adıyaman, 7 quadrillion in old money during the AK PARTI rule. We know very well, dear friends, that we all see in our own area, that there is an increase in our province ten years, twelve years ago, which is beyond compare to the development of our region and today. Look, the annual public investment that came to Adıyaman in 2002 is 10 million in total, 10 trillion in old money. Now, when you divide negative 7 quadrillion by 12, the total amount of investments will come on behalf of the public institution, which exceeds 500 million a year. When we look at all of this, it's possible to see the same improvement in the private sector. In 2002, our organized industry was one, and there were two or three half factories in that one. We now have four organized industries outside the centre of Adıyaman, including the steward, Besni, and Lakehead. The central organised industry is completely flooded, we've nationalized new areas, all of those parcels have been earmarked. And Adıyaman is taking serious steps to become a center of attraction at the industrial site, including agriculture and agriculture, and we will all be followers of them together, hopefully, because Adıyaman deserves it. Adıyaman is a place of peace, in fact, for thousands of years, for many years, where different languages, different cultures, different ethnic structures, different beliefs live together. We have a lot of resources. We said 4 percent of the world's marble reserve; we said the oil source is the most produced in Turkey; we have a lot of resources from tourism to irrigation sites, but most importantly, I think it's a human resource. In terms of human resources, Adıyaman is a truly remarkable city, a city worth studying, a role model. You know how we're talking about the solution? Adıyaman felt in the solution. There's a conversation there, including Alevi and Sunni, Kurdish and Turkish, Suryani and Metropolitan, and there's a dialogue between people. A cultural mosaic is Adıyaman, a city of peace, a city of peace, and has never given a price to any radical group in any way, given a price to terrorism; a city loyal to its people, loyal to its beliefs, safe and secure. I'm also inviting you to Adıyaman. Come, you may walk alone until early morning, and if you are hungry, you may eat. There's lots of places to travel, lots of places to see. It is with great pleasure and great honor that we welcome you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0063par0487	We'll come, we'll come.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0064par0488	They can eat tripe at 3:00 a.m.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0060par0489	I mean, from tripe to lung... until morning hours, I assure you, by yourself, that a woman in that bright place of peace can walk very well alone, and a gentleman can walk along with you, and a place of peace, peace, brotherhood all day long, until the early morning hours. And again, in a land where the sun rises and sets best in the world. Watching that sun rise from the horizon of Nemrod at 2,200 meters [200 m] high, I assure you, it gives you great satisfaction to watch it set. Which is one of the largest cultural assets in the world heritage list of UNESCO, a mountain awarded to Mount Nimrod and the Golden Apple. We have many historical sites in the same way -- all of our districts, from the center of Pirin, from Perre, from the camp, from Samsat, Sincik, Gerger, Besni, Lakebaş, Çelikhan, Tut districts, all of our counties have different beautys, and right now Adiyaman is a shining star in the east, southeast. I assure you, such a star shines. He made a tremendous leap from 12 to 13 years ago. Yes, Sharki properties preserve his culture, but his face is a Western-looking, innovated city Adıyaman, a city open to innovation, Adıyaman, and we are honored to serve on behalf of Adıyaman, along with all our fellow MPs. It gives us all great pleasure to serve those people, those beautiful people, to somehow contribute to the development of this country with them. That's how beautiful he is, how many qualities we can't really count. Look, one of the two fixed grounds after Eyup Sultan is in Turkey, and Safvan bin Muattal His Majesty's office is in Adıyaman, where he is not in his seat, but in his place. There are two pitches in Turkey, confirmed by sources: One in Eyüp Sultan İstanbul, and one in Samsat. Safa Safavan bin Muattal in Samsat.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0065par0493	The previous speaker mentioned Abu Zer al-Gifari. He's not here?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0060par0494	From Gerger's Castle to all the historical sites in Kahta, to all the ancient sites in Sincik. Again, in the same way, dear friends, we have an island that swims a wonder of nature in Çelikhan. We're bringing them to tourism. We've got lake parks, ponds, lakes. There are great, ancient, historical relics in Besni, called Sofraz. The pond's the same again. Adıyaman is a really great city, a beautiful city, along with Tut, the village of the grasses. Above all, we've taken enormous steps to improve the development of this captivating center, the development of industry on one side, and agriculture on the other. See, Adıyaman had centuries of dreams. Cetintepe Dam irrigation projects, quadrillion-year-old projects, his construction continues rapidly, we laid the foundation, and the construction continues rapidly. The Kokali Dam has been relocated, it's started, and hopefully, soon, we'll be laying the groundwork with our Minister. The Burying Project is back on the investment program. If we can find even a drop of water where there's no water supply, we can either build a lake or build a dam if the source is a little too much. We're doing enormous services for all the areas, we're making huge investments. Nevertheless, I must say, what we do to Adıyaman is little. To serve those beautiful people is the greatest of happiness, as long as they say, "God bless us." It's our only pleasure. I'm saying that making those people happy makes us happy. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0066par0502	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0067par0503	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit01spe0066par0504	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal... those who refuse... there seems to be no decision enough, but... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I'll give you a minute, there's been an argument. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0066par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'm going to run the vote electronically so there's no room for discussion. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The People's Democratic Party Group's proposal has not been accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Monday (March 2nd 2015), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On March 2, 2015, the general debate on the effects of Turkey's economy on Monday (2/3/2015) has been read in the General Assembly (now) and the unification of its talks with the chairmanship of the Turkish National Assembly, including the President's statement on the reduction of interest by the President and the motion to open the genesor on Turkish Minister Efkan Ala on Tuesday (June 15/2015). It is recommended to meet at 00. In turn, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0068par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, you know, recently, Mr. President has rekindled interest debates. This issue leads to serious consequences on the Turkish economy. We've submitted a research motion today to investigate this matter. Of course, this is about Mr. Erdogan's latest decision to become a chief economist, but I had warned him earlier in an article I wrote last month that he would withdraw his hand from the Central Bank and from the banks. But we see that he's still stirring, Mr. Erdogan. On the other hand, it's called the facsimile lobby. We've talked here many times. I don't understand now, who's in charge of this economy? Who's the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy? Okay, we understand the Prime Minister, he left it to the President, he's acting as Prime Minister instead. But Mr. Ali Babacan, President of the Economic Co-ordination Board, is this the Minister of the Government or not? Who signed his autograph? Wasn't it President Erdogan who signed the decrees as a minister again when he was being extended as Minister again in the new Cabinet? There's something going on in every head. Now, I claim from here that the President calls them traitors, saying that not dropping the interest is treason. So, what's the increase in interest? After Mr. President's statement, the indicator rates increased from 6.5 to 8-something. Then, now, shall we say that Mr. Erdogan is a traitor? Mr. President, there's a hum, and my friends are probably here to check it out, but they can't seem to get out. Look -- I say again, I say to your president -- those who don't drop the interest are traitors. I say, "Well, what are they raising?" After his statement, the interest has gone up, one. The interest lobby says, I'm asking you now...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0069par0027	Ask him about the exchange lobby, the exchange lobby.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0068par0028	Who's the exchange lobby? How much foreign currency does Erdogan and his family have? In fact, where did the unregistered, non-zero exchanges go? How much profit does the Erdogan family make from a 1-unit increase in currency? Is he doing this on purpose? Because every time the dollar goes up. Every time Erdogan talks, the dollar pops up like a meter. Now, are we going to call him the tattoo lobby? What happened to the euros, the dollars? You know, it's reset in the boxes, it can't reset, there's 30 million left, and we really don't understand what's left of it. Look, dear friends, now, Mr. President's speech is costing people a lot of money, he's profiting himself, his family is profiting, the interest lobby is right, the currency lobby is profiting, but since November alone, when you look at the private sector's debt, it's written down close to 82 billion euros worth of court damage. Now, you guys, you're looking, there's been a 71 billion-dollar increase in debt supply in just the last three weeks. Well, you're always rated. How much was the interest paid during your time? The money we pay when the external debt is 129, the money you pay when the external debt is 400, we pay 55-60 billion interest per year, two or three times more than that period of governments you constantly accuse. Who's he going to? So now that we've dropped the interest, did you drop the interest, the interest money you paid... didn't Mr. Erdogan confess himself to the travel events, my friends? Don't you all remember? In your day, we were five times richer. Those who said... started saying, "They're against us now." Well, when did they become five times richer, I say, during the AKP administrations. Who's the interest lobby? Now, dear friends, you can't overturn your 13-year economic failure by making the Minister of Finance a scapegoat, the President of the Central Bank, the President of the Central Bank, the Minister of Economics, the Minister of Finance. Yeah, you dated, sir, you had military custody, you said it was a conspiracy, and then you turned around and something else came up. You're back, you're together, you're parallel. Now that you're out, it's the interest lobby. Is this not your government, my friends, and these are your ministers? Why are you looking at me like that? Isn't Ali Babacan your minister, Mehmet Simsek your minister? Who appointed the Chief of Virtue, and did I appoint him? So when I was at the Central Bank, there was no one called the Head of Erdem, Durmis Yilmaz. He came from Ali Babacan's team, became Vice President, then became President. He didn't exist at the Federal Reserve. Why are you pooping now? Yeah, interest should go down, yeah, investments should go up, but good morning! I've been saying here for eight years, all of our friends are telling you, let's take structural measures, let's drop their action plans, let's drop their programs, let's leave these opening-up patterns, let's leave the ritual arrangements together, let's take economic precautions. That's not gonna come down on interest, not on paper, not without you buying it. Now, Mr. Erdogan is fooling people. The real interest lobby and the real currency lobby are President Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself. Why? I'm telling you guys, you're all coming in here, signing off on the proposals of the law, showing your way, not tiring your president, not tiring the president of the Central Bank, showing your way, coming... In Article 1211 of the Central Bank Law, Article 4 of Law 1211, the Central Bank's objective is price stability. Lift it up, five minutes of work, and a law. What are you yelling at the president of the Central Bank, the Minister, something? One of you is coming out, Mr. Zeybekci: this is like this, this is like this. It says, "Numan is saved." Yeah, that's the assignment you gave me. If the Central Bank's mission is price stability, if inflation is not falling in line with it, it is naturally unable to reduce interest. There's not only the president, there's the Money Policy Board, there's the members there, there's the members appointed at your time. I mean, he does this kind of thing and he yells and then he puts a lot of costs on the economy. Dear friends, these are political risks. Then you get up and get mad at international agencies. Today, Turkey's largest economic, political risk element is Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yeah, that's what's happening now. Look, I'll give you the numbers: 81 billion costs increased after these statements, from the increased exchange rate. I mean, can that happen, guys? Yeah, I mean in these things... look, I'm telling you, next time, sign a law proposal -- you sign everything -- we have friends who don't even have a signature; I don't know if they're throwing secretaries instead, if they're throwing friends -- change the 4th article of the Central Bank Law, and the Federal Bank will take down the Fiscal Government. Say, take down your responsibility. What kind of a thing is that? No one who has read the economy can say or say such a thing.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0070par0034	Teach them a lesson, teach them a lesson.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0068par0035	So, look, it's not interest interest by the Central Bank's Financial Policy Board lowering interest, it's indicator interest. Look, I'm telling you that from now on, it's up to two points, from 6.5 to 8.25, there's no such interest reduction. You can't attract interest because the inflation you're aiming at is 5 percent, 5.5%, because if inflation is 7.5 percent, that's negative real interest you're paying below that. Especially if you've condemned this country for twelve years, thirteen years, and every time you need that hot money to come to you, you're going to have to pay high interest. Now, you're looking for a new scapegoat to cover up what you've done. Mr. Erdogan is coming for him, scolding his own bureaucrats, his own Minister in public. What kind of a thing is that? What kind of understanding is that, guys? I don't understand. I mean, Mr. Babacan, you have to move to industry. There's nothing to be angry about. Let's take structural measures. We say, we say again, we say here. Look, dear friends, the government has the power to change the courtship regime, the Central Bank Law is in the hands of the government to change it. The Central Bank is solely independent in terms of means, the government is putting its purpose here by law, so let's not fool anyone. Come, all of you, if you want to reduce the interest, let's take measures for high-tech, high-tech, high-investigation, innovation, innovation, and let's take structural measures, otherwise this will continue, and then Mr. Erdoğan will be declared a traitor himself. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0071par0039	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Against Hakkari MP Adil Zozani... Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0072par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a promise against him, but I can't speak against him. So let me make it clear in advance that I'm going to speak in favor of this research proposal in the context. Dear lawmakers, really, in terms of economic management, have been showing us that the danger of deflation in Turkey has now entered the door, reflecting on us. The president's attempt to put on his shirt and direct the direction of economic management is a danger when he tries to establish a ruling on economic management. Look, the President is not affected or even affected in a positive way by the fluctuation of this exchange rate.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0073par0045	He wins, he wins, he makes a lot of money, he makes a lot of money.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0072par0046	His monthly profit is around $18,000 in this crisis. So there's no harm in the crisis; he's making a profit. Look, around $18,000 a month, he's already making a profit. But when you think about the poor citizen, the citizen who has to live on minimum wage, yes, in this crisis, the bread on the citizen's table is getting smaller every day. Every day, you're making this interest lobby, these speculators, another piece of bread from the citizen's table. About the Federal Reserve, I mean, we're not supposed to be able to tell each other much anymore. As a way to overcome the 2001 crisis, the Central Bank's full independence was discussed, discussed, and Turkey closed that book. The Central Bank, which has been established by law, whose framework has been established by law -- as the President says -- if it is really under the obligation of an extremism and gets its instructions from there, the Parliament must carry out its duties immediately. It's not a little ice accusation, it's not a little ice accusation. The Central Bank needs to be seized immediately if it is under control of the international speculator market and serves it -- which Mr. President says so -- then the government must act on the Central Bank's presidency as soon as possible. As we know legally, the President of the Central Bank, the Central Bank, will answer to Parliament, where eventually, every six months, he shares in the Plan Budget Commission his estimates, assessments of the progress of the Turkish economy on the monetary policy of the Central Bank. He does that every six months. He makes a similar presentation to the government in case of need, but every time the President downloads the interest, you don't download it. The fact that he questioned the Central Bank in such a manner is unfortunate. The government and, therefore, the President must give it up immediately. Dear friends, we understand your discussion of the presidential system, and we don't say "don't discuss it," but we do have an opinion: I think there's a problem with the documents placed in front of Mr. President regarding the presidential system. The presidential system described in the documents read by the President is not a worldwide presidential system. I think it's time for your advisor to change. I read the book that Mr. Burhan Lamb had written about it, and I studied it in detail. Mr. President, if Mr. Lamb is considering this work through his book, I assure you his manual is wrong. So this presidential system debate is not going to be a presidential one, you can be sure of that, because even from the way he's interfering with the Central Bank, that's understandable. In all the presidential systems around the world, the most distinctive thing in the presidential system is that the right to budget and the right to manage budget are not run by the same mechanisms. It makes the budget a different mechanism, it makes its application a different mechanism. That brake-balancing system is knotted in here, that's the joke. But, Mr. President, either by not knowing or by giving false documents to someone, they're causing him to speak wrongly. Yes, Mr. President should be interested in the country's economy, but he has to deal with its dimensions, Mr. President: Look, the difference in income between the Marmara region and the East Black Sea region includes a clear sample of income per person's share. The Marmara Region averages about $19,000, about $27,000 in Istanbul, around $28,000 in the province of Kopeeli. How much does a citizen living in the East Black Sea receive from an illegitimate national income? It's about $3,500. What's the difference? It's easy for you to account for that. If the president is to intervene in the economy somewhere, this is the area of intervention; it is to make recommendations to the government, which are directed towards implementation, which will eliminate injustice in the share of income. That's what the President is supposed to do, but the President is not at this point. Whether we can increase the number of dollars rich or not, that's the only thing the President is interested in. Oh, God, you AK PARTY governments are so good at this. Before you, the number of dollar billionaires of Turkey was five. So, in 2002, when you took over the government, Turkey's number of dollar billionaires was five. In thirteen years, you have doubled that number to 10. Currently, Turkey has around 63 dollar billionaires. You're good at that. This is the area where the President is concerned. Whether someone in Turkey can make a fortune or not, it's on this side of the business. He also evaluates money-making policy on this axis because -- and he's just mentioned -- you've been trying to keep your 13-year economic policy, your market policy in line with hot money. You've never invested in real economics. You've never been able to make a concession to investment, small-income or medium-sized business, and you've never been able to open its way. You brought incentive policies, even your incentive policies didn't help medium-scale businesses. It was a move to boost the power of medium-sized businesses within the real economy, but you were never involved in this side of the business, and in all the incentive packages you brought in, you've also made positive discrimination against dollar billionaires; that's your policy. When that's your policy, it's probably naive for us to expect that Mr. President is interfering directly with the central bank's currency policy, and we're not that naive. I assure you, in a moment you will reject this motion because you are in no position to accept this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0074par0054	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. In your favor, Ankara MP Gökhan Good morning. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0075par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we've all been listening to the President's recent remarks to the Central Bank. In private, there's a President in Turkey who wants the interest discount and wants it quickly and radically, and you're independent of us and you're committed to others? Finally, he said, "If you're independent, I'm independent." So the President wants the interest down. Guys, whatever political identity you're carrying, it's important to know that with instructions, interest doesn't come down or go out. You know what this looks like? Once upon a time, a city council would build a territory, but there's an important earthquake fault line going through it. That's the President's logic, and that's what he wants. So, once again, regardless of your political identity, you should know that interest decisions are based on the nature of the general economy, and any force that compels this will harm the general economy itself. Let me say this personally: I do not favor high interest rates in Turkey, but we do know that in your power over the past 12 years, you have followed high interest low currency policy in this country. In fact, you have kept TLίm extremely valuable in the framework of this policy, and anyone who produces it in Turkey has been punished, exporter has been forced, and you have made Turkey an import paradise. How quickly did you forget your Prime Minister's words at the time, saying: "Ya, we've evaluated Turkish lira, there are those who complain about it. Before us, Turkish lira was crawling, and now Turkish lira has been valued. My dear friends, if it's not that we don't know about the economy, then we know that the Central Bank controls the exchange rate through interest, and we know that the extremely valuable Turkish lira in Turkey actually hurts the general economy and encourages imports, but we also know that you've broken the economy of this country by watching these policies for twelve, thirteen years. Now you're going to say: "Ya, what you're talking about, the economy of Turkey is flying." I'll give you some figures... I've always told you, I know some of the AKP's MP friends believe what the government has told you, so I consider it a benefit for them to repeat those words. Look, my dear friends, the average growth of the 90-year-old Republic of Turkey is 5 percent, your ten-year-old average is 4.8 percent, and your average has been less than 3.5 percent since 2007. Last time you see 3 percent this year, it'll be a miracle. So you, the AKP, who boasted of blowing up the economy, stressing that you left Turkey under the pressure of growth under 1.5 to 2 points of the 90-year historical average, and that's the first one. Moreover, this growth is not a growth based on production, it is a growth based on hot money and imports. Let's go on, you're saying that there was no growth abroad during our time. At the same time, China grew 7.5%; the Philippines, Malaysia grew 6.4%; even Indonesia grew 5%; Colombia, Hungary, Taiwan, Sweden, Canada, Egypt, Singapore, all of them growing much faster than Turkey under AKP administration. Look, the high interest rate created a low currency external debt spiral. We paid 145 million taels of gold from the Ottomans. After 1950, you began to borrow from 1950, from 1950 to 2002, all of Turkey's debt was 130 billion dollars, and Turkey's debt today is 400 billion dollars. So, my dear friends, during your time in power, Turkey has borrowed $270 billion more, and you've borrowed more than twice as much as the 60-year-old government before you. We can brag about your work! My dear friends, the stockpile of domestic and external debt -- if you take notes of these -- was 243 billion dollars before you, today 603 billion dollars. So in your time, the stockpile of domestic and external debt has increased by 360 billion dollars. But you have a success, I'll tell you that you have paid off Turkey's $22.1 billion foreign debt to the IMF. Is it true? Yeah, that's right; truth be told. My dear friends, but in 2002, the Central Bank and the public had an external debt of $86 billion, including this $22 billion. Do you know how much today is? Today, the National Bank and the public have an external debt stockpile of $115 billion. So you've closed your debt to the Central Bank at a higher interest rate than any other source, and you can set it up like a success, you can market it. The number of dollar billionaires; Japan's $15 billionaire; Turkey's more than four times, but you can give a worker pensioner a $24 raise. Today, according to your TÜİK, the unemployment rate is 10.5 per cent, along with 2.5 million people who have given up hope of finding a job, 5.5 million people are unemployed in this country, 17.2 per cent and you have the historical record. Inflation is in double digits, you have the historical record. You still have the historical record of youth unemployment. Before your time, the credit card debt was $4.3 billion, 75 billion today; no matter how much you brag. The bankrupt consumer loan was $278 million before you, now $12.1 billion; no matter how much you brag about it. You always refer to 2001; in 2001, the number of executions in crisis conditions was 10 million; today, 22 million; no matter how much you boast, you bring home less. You pay an average of $50 billion interest per year, over $600 billion in interest paid by the country during your reign. You are the largest interest lobby in the history of the Republic of Turkey. In 2002, the country's foreign trade deficit was $15 billion, $100 billion today. Please listen carefully, friends, you have made this country a country that gives $4.5 quadrillion a week in foreign trade deficits. Turkey has privatised $65 billion from 1986-2014. You made 57 billion dollars of this; $12 billion went into debt, went to the ads, the ads went to counseling. You sold this country for 45 billion dollars. Do you guys know what 45 billion dollars is? It's two years' interest money in this country. So, you sold every agricultural infrastructure facility in this country for two years of interest money, and you squandered it. Agriculture is dead, industry is dead. In 2005, this was the 56th country in the income ranking of each person, 64th today. You can't be too proud. Why am I saying all this? All of this happened because of the high interest rate low currency policy, which is the wrong economic policies that you have implemented in this country. So the internal production was undermined, so exports could not develop, so imports increased, you could not brake the foreign trade deficit, you could not brake the current deficit. You're trying to lower interest today, right? Yeah, well, it's true to reduce interest, but to reduce interest, you have to correct the economy, not the directive. So you need to rebuild the agricultural infrastructure you've destroyed, the industrial infrastructure you've destroyed. Turkey must reproduce, and not in textiles, cement, or in stone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have to develop the industry based on RD. Since you can't do these things, you take only one thing: let's lower the interest before the election, and let's take advantage of these elections. This country is not ruled, this country will not end well with this head. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0076par0077	Thank you, Mr. Morning. Against you, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0081	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment against the nationalist movement group proposal. I salute your high council. It has been about six years since the world's economic crisis, and although the time has passed, economic problems in many countries, particularly the developed country's economies and eurozone, are still unresolved. We all know that the root source of problems that arise in some countries today is fiscal discipline. In this sense, despite this picture, despite these paintings in the world, especially in the Middle East, especially in Europe, when we take a look at Turkey's economy during the AK PARTI rule, I really want to make it clear that we are facing a very good picture, despite the world's economies. Thanks to economic policies carried out by the EC PARTI government, we have been the world's second fastest growing economy since the average growth of 8.8 per cent from 2010-2011, and in this sense, we have been the world's second most coveted, modeled, and discussed the success of the AK PARTI government's economic policies. In 2002, there was an economic collapse due to internal instability, and there was a period when all the countries of the world were affected by these economic ruins. When we looked at 2002, we had a really serious economic crisis as a state, and we had a period of time when the people, together with this economic crisis, were concerned that the government would no longer be able to solve some of the problems...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0078par0084	How is he now, Mr. Salih?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0085	...and at that time, our debt to the IMF increased to $25 billion, our central bank currency reserves, which, in a sense, sank into one sense, were $3,500 per person.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0078par0086	How about now?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0087	...we've had a period in which the gay national estate has dropped to $3,500, and our total economy, our national revenue, is in 250 billion dollars. After all these times, in the AK PARTI power period, as I've just said, there have been some economic crises in the Middle East, economic crises of the century all over the world, and in a sense, because of our government's sustainable, predictable policies...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0079par0088	Of course!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0089	...because of the stable rulings in Turkey, we experienced a period when we grew up with minimal impact on these economic crises.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0079par0090	The Federal Reserve you're accusing took those precautions.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0080par0091	Explain to me how the citizens got three times richer in one night.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0092	Look, there's just been some talk about unemployment figures.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0079par0093	What's the unemployment, Mr. Salih?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0094	Thanks to the policies of the EC PARTY in Turkey, unemployment has been one of the lowest levels of the last decade...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0081par0095	It's up to 11 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0079par0096	What's the lowest? It was 10.7 and 10.3 in 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0097	...and we've caught the lowest level in the last ten years.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0082par0098	Tell me what it was like in 2002, 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0099	Thanks to successful economic policies that have been implemented, in the past year alone...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0083par0100	It's the first time you've put it above 15 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0101	Mr. Mehmet, you like to listen.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0083par0102	No, I'm asking, but 10.7 is now 10.3 in 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0103	...over 1,500,000 new jobs have been provided in this country.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0083par0104	I was wondering if the text was old, that's why I'm asking.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0105	Another key priority for our economy, which continues to grow in the global crisis and offers new jobs to millions of our people, was finding a cure for unemployment.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0084par0106	Are there 400,000 VIPs employed in that 1.5?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0083par0107	But it's 10.7.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0108	In general, when we look at our banking system at the center of our country's major economic crises...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0084par0109	Explain to me how many of them got a job without a test.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0110	...in the AC PARTY, we see that we've come to a better level than the banking system of developed countries. In 2002, again, we experienced a period when the bank sank, the resources of the nation were siphoned, and thankfully today, thanks to these economic developments, Turkey became the 2nd fastest-moving country in the global competitiveness ranking of the World Economic Forum. In this sense, under all these economic achievements, of course, the signature of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has ruled our country since 2002 and has marked our country's economy and every area of our country.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0084par0112	Tell me when they're going to screw up the Bank Bank Bank Bank and the Bank of Asia.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0113	For these reasons, I would like to say that today our country's economy has come to this, thanks to the stable policies that our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has maintained at the time, and today, as the first elected President of our country, who thinks about his country, who thinks about his country's future, of course, about the country's economy, of course, Mr. President will speak his views on the course of our country's progress, speak his views, and, in his view, lead our country's economy, to our country's country's natural right.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0085par0114	But he will not insult, nor call the president of the Central Bank a traitor. Do you call your own Minister, the President of the Central Bank, the traitor?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0115	Here, on this economic stand our President has left...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0085par0116	Ruin, wreck!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0117	With these economic policies taken over by our Prime Minister, our Prime Minister will, hopefully, move our country's economy further and further and more decisive steps under economic management. Our economy has always taken the right steps for 12 years...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0085par0119	We can't get rid of it this year, but Ali Babacan's in charge, right?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0120	...and despite economic crises all over the world, with predictable economic steps, the economic crisis of the century passed through Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0086par0122	The applause wasn't accepted, so they don't believe it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0123	This has been accompanied by early steps and early intervention, thanks to Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0087par0124	Tell us if Babacan is the head of the economy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0125	And with the economic policies they've drawn, our Turkey will move in a safer direction to the vision of 2023...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0087par0126	Is he doing it wrong, Ali Babacan and his team, and he's doing it wrong? Why don't you tell me that? There's something wrong with the application, the President's not the head of the economy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0077par0127	...and hopefully, as a country that leads the world's economy, the vision of 2023-2053 will carry this country again. This is the National Movement Party reporting that I am against the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0088par0131	Thank you, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0089par0134	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit02spe0088par0135	There's a request for roll call, and I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Earth, Mr. Earth, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Günal, Mr. Sourshi, Mr. Akar. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0088par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. I'm going to repeat the roll call now and give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0090par0012	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement from my office.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0088par0013	You have a voice request. Enter the system, please, and I'll give you your word before I go to the Republican People's Party's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0090par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, valued MPs, one of the coups against democracy and rights demands in Turkey was carried out on March 2, 1994. DeP MPs Orhan Doğan and Hatip Dicle were detained by undercover police on March 2, 1994, leaving the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the same day, again, parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary Party MPs Orhan Doğan, Hatip Dicle, Leyla Zana, Ahmet Türk, Sırı Sakık and Independent MP Mahmut Allanak have been removed from custody and Ankara 1st. The Lu State Security Court ordered an immediate interrogation of Kurdish MPs. Orhan Doğan and Hatip Dicle have been taken into custody on March 4, 1994 and other MPs were placed in Ankara Central Closed Criminal and Prison on March 17. Thus, the voice of the Kurdish people, democratic supporters, was asked to be silenced, but history has been writing us as a political tradition, which is now a group of us at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who have been fighting since the DEP. We say that since 1994, we have carried out our struggle for democracy, freedom and rights in the person of Orhan Doğan and all the DEPESTs, condemning this bureaucracy and the coup of Congress, which took place 21 years ago. Again, the military and bureaucracy-based coup process, which began with decisions announced by the National Security Council meeting on February 28, 1997, was also written in black letters in Turkey's history of democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The fact that those who were exposed to this coup attempt today continue antidemocratic and illegal practices with MGK decisions reminds us once again of their awareness of democracy and freedom. We also condemn the coup d'état of February 28th, which means the removal of all coup institutions and the removal of the coup debacle in Turkey must be removed immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0091par0023	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Monday/3/2015 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The parliamentary research motion, which was submitted to the Turkish Parliament on 20/3/2014 to determine the harm done to the environment and people of the thermal plants planned by Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk and 22 MPs (1310 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Monday 2/3/2015, and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the proposal, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0092par0039	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the parliamentary inquiry motion to investigate the environmental damage and effects of the thermal power plant envisioned in the Silifke district and Akdere and Yeşilovacık district. Before I begin my remarks, I'd like to point out that on March 2, 1994, I condemned the arrest and coup of the DeP MPs who were taken into custody in a coup in this Parliament and then sentenced to years in prison. While the late Orhan Doğan was taken into custody, Murat 124 had been put in the car before my eyes. At the point where we are now, the question of why those MPs were taken into custody cannot be answered. Dear lawmakers, in every election time, the ruling of the Justice and Development Party before every election makes various commitments to the people, but it doesn't pay those bonds after the election is over, it doesn't fulfill its commitments to the people, just as it was in the Canal Istanbul Project to unite Marmara and the Black Sea in the 2011 elections. If you remember the agenda of that date, AKP officials and then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who had been on television, had been talking about this Channel Istanbul Project, and they called it the project, and the AKP's supporters couldn't finish the project. Now, in 2015, what happened to the project; I'm asking, what happened to the Canal Istanbul Project? What happened to Canal Istanbul, the main propaganda tool for the 2011 election process? Now they've made up another bullshit, some AKP bullshit, and now they're going to build a three-story parade. That's how you do it until 2019. Now, look, valued MPs, these are the lies of the AKP, and the districts of Mersin have also received their share. The Justice and Development Party, which came to power in 2002, did not solve Mersin's problems as it did in Turkey. Problems have been added on top of problems. As these problems created by the AKP's government are not enough, now the problems of the local government are on the agenda. On June 16th of 2007, at the Justice and Development Party's candidate promotion meeting, State Minister Kurdistant Tüzmen says: "There will be a development with 5 T/s." What is this? These were trade, agriculture, tourism, transportation and Tüzmen. By God, my friends, all of these people died, all of them died, and all of them went away, especially Tuzmen. Agriculture is dead, tourism is dead, trade is dead, transportation is dead, Tüzmen is gone. Now, Mr. Tüzmen says that at that time again: "Mersin will become the center of commerce in the Mediterranean." You know our team well, we will bring this Mersin to his rightful place, and we will work with our lives and our blood to the fullest. It'll become an important trading center. The export of Mersin will find billions of dollars. After you find the number 1, you put the zeros with it. The esteemed MPs say that everyone will eat bread and get rich, and we will bring the Liman, the railway, the land road, and the airway to Mersin. I repeat, we will bring the airway to Mersin. So I made a statement to the newspapers at the time, and I said, "Let this AKP take over this airway, I'll resign as a member of parliament." It's 2007. What year is it now? 2015. As you did not build an airport for Mersin, as you left that project, you went out, and we will build a regional airport between Shakirpaşa and Tarsus Çiçeli. You said, "You have gone out and the contractor has fled, and you have gone away." Now, Kurşat Tüzmen says in his words: "We are coming, we have been acting for you, others have escaped, we are going to do master politics. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Now, the problems the AKP has brought to Mersin are not over, there is no solution. The unemployment rate in Mersin is twice the average for Turkey. Young unemployed, mostly. If the official rate is around 10 to 11 per cent, the unemployment rate in Mersin is 20 per cent. Dear MPs, the construction of Mersin's regional, national and international airport must be completed immediately. The port and organised industrial area must be expanded. The Mersin-Tersus Organised Industrial District must be connected directly to the current highway. The places declared a tourist area should be opened to investment. The current highway must be extended until Taşcı. Logistical centers must be created. The Mersin-Antalia coast road must be completed. The Snowslide Ski Center must be followed, opened to thermal health tourism, and faith tourism should be done. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have here a motion. You're saying this is a double route between Antalya and Mersin, or a highway, and I've made a motion on when it will be finished. I've given a lot of these motions, but they're all motions for Mersin and his counties. I'm saying, when is this road going to end? Bülli Bey replied: "This road will end at the end of 2013. Let his ears be ringing, Mr. Bülli Beyin, not 2013, but 2023. Gone, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "I'm opening a road in the stoner." He said, "They've put asphalt in the 5km area, they've opened it." Mashallah, and the rest of them stand, and they stand, and their tunnels stand. The road was to end in 2013, 2015, and it's still not over, and it's not going to end, and it's not going to end until 2023. So you'll go from power, that path will not end again, my dear friends. Now, however, a nuclear power plant was installed in this period of power, even though there was a tourism field in the west of Mersin, and there was a great potential for tourism. So it was a gift from a nuclear power plant. He's already a disgrace. That nuclear power plant -- I've always told you -- it's like doing a toilet in the guest room of our house, so it's not acceptable. And it's not acceptable in terms of technology because it's not a technology called VVER-1200 that's been tried and controlled; it's not something that's been tested. They filed a bogus CED report, and it's been argued that the signatures in that CED report are from someone else, the CED report is in court. That's not enough, valuable lawmakers, three more thermal power plants have been planned there. That thermal plant's CED report meeting sparked a reaction from the locals. Now, there is no coal in Yeşilovacık, and there is no coal in Akdere. These thermal plants are used to produce electricity through burning coal. There's no coal there, what's that thermal plant doing there? If it's a field of agriculture and tourism, is the thermal plant calculated for its impact on agriculture, tourism, and its damage? Again, there are valuable lawmakers, the seals we call Monachus (Akdeniz, monk seal). They built a port there. That port... I said it on this stand for days, it's being made. I said, "We're stopping it," said the Minister. It's over, it's over, the harbor's over now, so keep your eyes open. The minister is still going to stop and the Mediterranean seals have left because the Mediterranean seals' production caves have been destroyed, my friends. Dear MPs, Silifke really has problems. We've given motions, and they're going to build the Karakaya Dam. In 2007, your MPs made a promise that this dam would be built. He's got a flood dam, he said it's gonna happen. We were new deputies then, 2007. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 2015, they're still busy making ground feasibility. They're dealing with the solution to these problems. You said you handled the economy very well. If you're handling the economy so well, I don't understand why the President keeps attacking every once in a while, the Chief of Erdem, Ali Babacan, or Mehmet Simsek. Although I've had enough of the president's speech. They made him a president so he wouldn't talk too much, he's still talking there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0093par0057	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0092par0058	At least when he goes abroad, let our minds rest; let him not speak, and let him go abroad in abundance. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0093par0061	Thank you. Against İstanbul MP Erol Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0065	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment against the Republican People's Party's motion to build a thermal power plant for Mersin, to fill the sea, to express issues such as Mediterranean seal, thermal power plant pollution, negative effects on tourism. Of course, while listening to Ali Reza Bey, I had to read the motion again because about nine minutes ago, the airport in Mersin, the organised industrial region, brought up some issues regarding the activities of the EC PARTI, but if you'll excuse me, I would like to take the motion seriously and express what really needs to be said about this matter. First of all, let me express a few things the government has done about the preservation of natural life. Important work has been done in the conservation of nature and biodiversity over the last decade, and one of them is structured on Mediterranean seals. 14 sea turtles were introduced to the sea in the breeding area of 202,000 caretta chicks and 166,000 sea turtles. In other issues related to the protection of our country's vegetation, nature and animal diversity, we see that the government has made 518,000 inputs as part of the National Biodiversity Data Table Project on Noah's Ark. So we are all witnesses that the government is doing its part in both wildlife and vegetation. I'd like to stress a few things about the environment and energy and the thermal power plant, which is the subject of the original motion. That's the effect of energy on our lives. Every child born needs as much energy as a parent's affection, as much food, as much air to breathe. When we all enter our homes, we need energy at every point, until we are warm, enlightened, eating, communicating, transportation, and even in our health, and even in our education. This paradigm is not the right paradigm, but it's a painful fact that at every point today, from the production to the consumption of energy, unfortunately, it's almost enslaved us. I believe that this painful truth is a data that we all accept. To give an example: Today, I asked the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey's natural gas spending is 3 million cubic metres, and electricity spending is 20 million kilowatts. Parliament worked 800 hours in the Fourth Year of Legislature. We can't tolerate a blackout, not a day's work, not an hour's worth of power, not even a moment's thought. When we look at Turkey's energy photo, we all know that our country's energy needs are unfortunately dependent on the outside. We're talking about $60 billion in energy imports or energy imports. Our country is mainly using energy production sources, such as hydroelectric, natural gas, coal and wind. A joyful development is that in renewable energy Turkey now uses or gains energy from renewable energy -- close to 4.5 per cent -- except hydroelectricity. Now, the main issue of the motion -- which the Republican People's Party didn't take very seriously -- but I want to continue to take it seriously -- is that when we look at data on coal plants, our country has 14 billion tons of coal reserves and 63 million tons of annual production capacity. We're doing politics, and I was wondering what our parties were saying about Turkey's energy policies and coal reserves. When we look at the party programme of the National Movement Party, page 79, there is talk of reducing energy dependence, using domestic resources, providing energy diversity, especially nuclearly. When we look at the party programme of the Republican People's Party, page 196 mentions that an energy policy supporting industrial policy will be studied and that stone coal, lignite, wind and solar energy will be prioritized, local coal resources will be priorityd on page 241, and Turkish Coal Company will be developed with domestic and foreign capital. In the party programme of the EC PARTY, it is said that a policy based on local coal, equipped with new technologies, will be followed by the establishment of thermal power plants that will not affect the environment by the private sector, where substitution investments instead of external dependency will be made, instead of addiction to one source in energy, will be eliminated. So, basically, when we look at what the government is doing, it's possible to say that it's taking both the AK PARTY and opposition parties into consideration. Now, I think it's important to congratulate the government for confirming its own party programmes as all parties because it follows a policy that reduces its external dependency, that local resources will be cared for and alternative resources will be multiplied. Another issue is the issue of the issues that should be followed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- are these thermal plants, or are new generational technologies, which should have been purged in the past? It's an important issue, and we see that it's possible to say that the government also considers environmental sensitivity here in terms of thermal power plants. Dear friends, again, in the environmental or environmental process, the European Union's environmental chapter is one of the most important things to us. When we look at what the government has done about this chapter that we opened in 2009, we see that the legislation is largely harmonising, and in practice, it is related to an investment of around 58 billion euros in central management and local government, in 2011, central management and local government have invested 4.2 billion euros, 4.9 billion, and 6.5 billion euros in environmental investments in 2013. Thus, it is possible to say that Turkey followed the event with precision in the integration process of the European Union and in maintaining balance between development and the environment. Dear lawmakers, the priority of our country's use of its resources is that all our parties are united. We also see that our government has confirmed that in its application. With such thoughts, when will Mr. Ali Reza Bey express his opposition to this, and when will Kanal Istanbul be held? The three-story gate is a lie. Let me tell you a few things about the expression. And here's the thing, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0080	I said bullshit, I didn't say lying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0081	Your statement is in the transcripts, Mr. Ali Reza, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0082	I said "bullshit." I said "bullshit."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0083	Did you say bullshit?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0084	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0085	Then it's like being alone with your own bullshit.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0086	So what happened? What happened? Tell me about Canal İstanbul.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0087	You can see when the three-story gate will be built by looking at a 150-year-old dream of Marmaray.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0088	Tell me about Canal İstanbul. First, keep your promise in the past.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0089	The Third Bosphorus bridge, the Izmir Bay crossing, the ORGI airport, the Army-Greesun airport, all of Turkey's airports, our universities...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0095par0090	Sir, tell me about your promise in the last election.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0096par0091	Mr. Secretary, Marmaray's contract was made before you arrived.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0094par0092	... colleges in every city, double roads, roller coasters, and I think, if you'd like, let's just end up like this:
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0097par0094	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0097par0096	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0097	Now, the speaker has made a statement that I'm against thermal power plants, and that I'm against domestic production, and I want to tell you the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0097par0098	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0102	Mr. President, I'll tell you first, our friend may not know, I'm a mining engineer. Yes, I mean, it's not possible to argue that domestic mineral deposits can't be evaluated effectively and efficiently, because of my interest in the profession. I said, "What are those thermal plants doing there?" There's no coal there. You're saying that these thermal plants... here, we have 12 or 14 million tons of local coal, so we'll evaluate them... and there's no coal there, sir. Have you ever been there? There's no coal there. What native coal deposits will be evaluated where there is no coal? This is why that port came there: coal will be brought from Africa, and it will be imported, not local coal. Set up thermal power plants, but have them set up with the latest, modern fluid technologies and coal deposits. This can't be set up where there's a tourist field, where there's tourism potential, where there's agriculture; that's one. Two: I know the energy policy of the world, the energy policy of the world is moving towards supply security policy, and with the nuclear power plant that you're bringing in today, you're getting more and more dependent on something. There are talks made by Davutoglu about your addiction to Russia, which is not like any other addiction to Russia, says Davutoglu. Your addiction reaches 80 to 90 percent. Today, we produce 6 percent of 94% and 7 percent ourselves. What are you talking about? What independence are you talking about? Now, something else, I said to you, tell me about the Canal Istanbul Project in 2011. Why didn't you mention it?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0099par0106	It's gonna happen!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0107	Never mind, brother, during that election... why do you forget?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0099par0108	We haven't forgotten.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0109	Why don't you go on TV and tell us about Canal Istanbul, and now you're talking third mega bullshit? Tell me about him, you didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0099par0110	We'll do it all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0098par0111	Isn't it you, Recep Erdogan, who came out of television and called this people the Mega Istanbul Project, the Canal Project?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0100par0113	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0101par0114	You called Marmaray a lie!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0102par0115	Marmaray's contract was made before you arrived. Go find out, brother, he had a contract! He was financed, too.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0103par0116	That's enough, that's enough! These people are fed up with your lies, your lies, your bullshit. He's fed up, he's fed up, these people are fed up with you. Just go, that's enough! Scream, scream, but you'll scream. Your president is yelling, and he's not doing anything else.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0104par0117	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0105par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, information has been going around that Turkey has resigned today on the agenda of economic management, about the President of the Central Bank and Vice Prime Minister of the Economic Co-ordination Board, Mr. Ali Babacan. As you know, in the last two months, the dollar has increased by 4/1 in Turkey, raising from $2 to 2.5 lira. Every day someone loses more, someone earns more in Turkey. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan and President of the Central Bank Erdem Başçı are calling on the government to give accurate information to Parliament and Turkey's public.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0104par0123	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0106par0126	Mr. President, thank you. I took this word for it: there is Şakirpaşa Airport in Adana; all the way in 2007, this is the mentality to shut down Şakirpaşa Airport and open the airport to Mersin. I mean, why would the contractor, who's been in Adana for 50 years now, who's been in the airport for 60 years, who's been in a pocket airport, run away now? I wish Şakirpaşa would always run away and stay in his place. I've been promised to mention it again. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0107par0129	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0108par0132	Thank you very much. Mr. President, there are 1,700,000 people in Mersin. Most of these people live off agriculture. Bringing them to the most valuable agricultural area of Mersin to build a thermal plant means taking away the bread of the people there. The coal of that thermal plant is not found in Mersin. The thermal plant and the cement plant that was built next to it would kill agriculture and kill tourism, and the people of Mersin would be persecuted by the AKP. Thank you for your information.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0109par0135	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0110par0138	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to brief you on the Marmaray issue. Marmaray is a project designed during the rule of the National Movement Party, financed, initiated by the MPHP, completed during the AKP ruling period. I'll inform the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0111par0141	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. In his favor, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0112par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk of the Republican People's Party, and from his friends on March 20, 2014, to the Parliament's motion to investigate and identify the harmful effects of thermal power plants, HESESTs and nuclear plants to natural environments and to human beings, as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Parliament of Turkey. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, as our Mersin MP Mr. Mehmet Shandır. I would like to share with you one more time at the beginning of my discussion that there are no coal reserves in the region, especially in the construction of three thermal plants, which are supposed to be located in the regions of Greenovac and Akdere, and that the place where the thermal power plants are intended to be built is an agricultural land. In a area like this, where there's no coal reserves, in a very valuable tourist zone in our country, the establishment of these thermal plants is not fit for scientific facts, and I would like to remind the esteemed MPs of the High Assembly in particular. After this reminder, I would like to express that the government's search for energy in an energy sector, which has increased about 10 points of external dependency in the last decade, especially in the AKP period, has been in conflict with one another. On the one hand, we all argue that external dependency should be reduced, but we see that the AKP governments, which have been in business with these allegations, have increased their dependence on the outside over the last ten years. He took the easy way out, chose to run the energy sector with daily policies. Dear MPs, today we come to the fifth year of the law passed by the Supreme Assembly under a bilateral agreement between Turkey and Russia on the construction of Akkuyu nuclear power plant in 2010. It has been stated by government officials that in five years some work has been done on the location of this power plant, the nuclear power plant, and there has been a new problem in locating it after about 550 drilling. Therefore, a bill of law was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 28 January 2015 under the signature of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. We see that two significant changes are involved in this bill, which came to our Commission under the Law on Electric Marketing Law No.6446 and under the heading of the Law Against Some Laws. One of them is an additional clause in the relevant Article of the Law on Military Forbidden Areas and Security Areas 2565. This additive sums it up: limiting provisions do not apply in non-military areas and security areas, including provisions for construction and construction of areas acquired by the coastlines, shorelines and draining of land, such as the AKP government has done with Russia after five years of work with its petrochemistry facility and its extensions and its international agreements, and that we are strongly opposed by law on the coasts, on the coasts, on the shorelines, on the coasts, on which it wants to be established and on the grounds of the construction and construction of the land acquired by means of the construction and construction, and on the outside zones of which are now in the area of security. Not only that, but we can't hear what the government has promised, but if anyone wants to build a refinery, a petrochemistry plant and other facilities in the future, they've brought up a bill in the same area or in Sinop. This reveals that in the name of saving the day, the government is forced to return to its implementation by relying on its numerical power here without doing any work on what it has decided to bring us tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, such an arrangement, unfortunately, shows that Turkey's energy policy is not in good hands. He came to our commission, and there were some talks on the general issue, but there was no results, because the government, honestly, clearly, has not been able to present this arrangement in front of the Commission with scientific data. Another important arrangement is included in this bill. This second arrangement, unfortunately, is also the result of the government's political preference to share with all our citizens, 77 million of our people, despite the fact that the missing energy policies have reached very high levels in certain areas of energy bills. Once the court has approved the decision not to pay the court on the grounds that the missing fugitive costs are not their own consumption, the decision to extradite payments is now made by the judicial authorities, it is intended to prevent court decisions from being implemented and citizens from resorting to the court on such grounds. So, on the one hand, he's not going to pay back the entitled citizens, and after that, he's now bringing a provision that will remove the right of citizens to appeal to the court, the court, because of the missing fugitive payment. I share with you the exact same reason for this clause: There is the return of technical and nontechnical losses to consumers in the face of a court of justice. Like all goods and services offered to consumers, all costs for electricity must be reflected to consumers. Otherwise, these activities will become impossible to carry out. Thus, hesitations about the continuity of implementation will be met by the price of losses and illegal costs, aimed at preventing consumer arbitration and court decisions given in favour of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is a law-making establishment. If you regulate this law to rob the citizens of rights from the Constitution and from universal human rights, you will also register here how wrong the AKP's energy policies are. Investments to be made must be made without damaging the environment, taking into account the citizens' demands and in accordance with the facts of Turkey. If you try to impose this imposition on the citizens and build a facility in Mersin, or in another province of Turkey, with all the objections of the citizen, based solely on reducing external dependence on energy, you will increase Turkey's problem, not reduce its problem. Therefore, the Republican People's Party Group suggests that it is a sound suggestion to investigate the problems Turkey has been through with both the HeES and the nuclear power plants and the thermal power plants, and as the National Movement Party, I would like to express our view that this research motion should be raised again.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0113par0159	Thank you, Mr. Light. Against you, Silver House MP Kemalettin Aydın... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0114par0163	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party to share with you my views on the parliamentary research motion that Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk has submitted. A country that grows, develops, and has goals must have energy resources for growth and development. The needs of energy sources are being met by alternative energy sources. At a significant rate, our resources are being spent on imported energy sources. In terms of supplying local energy sources, regional and environmental impacts must be carried out by scientific and public assessments. In this direction, I also have the belief that the government and public administrations will be able to do so collectively in the AK PARTI authorities, in which the nation's opinion that nothing will be done despite the nation, by listening to its environmental interaction assessment, but in the meantime, there are a number of laws that people have been waiting for before the House closes. In terms of study, he feels that it is not necessary for later talks; I offer our love and respect to both those who have motions and to all those who are interested in the matter.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0113par0166	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0115par0167	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0113par0168	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0116par0170	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0113par0171	Okay, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0116par0172	Clerk friends, are you saying there isn't one?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0113par0173	That's why we're conflicting, sir. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Republican People's Party Group proposal has been rejected. There are enough decisions at the exact limit. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a consultation board meeting Monday (02/03/2015), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 688, 687, 673, 658 and 686 proposals and drafting of the drafts in order of 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. Apart from week-to-week working days, 9, 13, 16, 20, 23, 27, 28, 29 and 30 March 2015, 3, 4 and 5 April 2015 Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday at 14 p.m. The meeting at 00, and the discussion of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions" in these combinations, The number-one Gensoru Proclamation (11/45) which was issued under pressure (March 2, 2015) will be brought to the agenda on Monday (Today) and will be held in this joint for talks on whether or not the Constitution will be taken into consideration under Article 99/45. March 9, 2015, in Monday's merger, until the meeting of the 344th Bill of Laws, the negotiations were completed; March 10, 2015, in Tuesday's merger, until the meeting of the 4th Amendment, the talks were completed; On Wednesday, March 11, 2015, until the meeting of the talks of the law bill number 46 in the union on Wednesday (March 11, 2015), March 12, 2015, in Thursday's merger, until the meeting of the talks of the 95th Amendment, March 13, 2015, until the meeting of Friday's merger to the end of the talks on the Article of the Law, number 148; March 16, 2015, until Monday's merger of 374 rows until the completion of the talks on the Law Bill; March 17, 2015, until the meeting of Tuesday's merger of 412 rows until the end of the talks on the Law Bill; On Wednesday (March 18, 2015), until the meeting of the talks on the 470th Bill of the Law was completed; Until the meeting of Thursday (March 19th), 2015, until the meeting of the 511th Bill of Laws, when the talks were completed; March 20, 2015 until Friday's merger of 519th rows until the meeting of the talks of the Legislature. March 23, 2015, until Monday's merger of 549 rows to the end of the talks of the law bill; March 24, 2015, in Tuesday's merger, until the completion of negotiations on the 557th Bill of Law; March 25, 2015, in Wednesday's merger, until the meeting of the 566th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks; March 26, 2015, in Thursday's merger, until the meeting of the 568th Bill of Laws, the talks were completed; March 27, 2015, until Friday's merger of 575 rows to the end of the negotiations of the law bill; On Saturday, March 28, 2015, until the meeting of the talks of the works, which were in 583 rows, was completed; March 29, 2015, in Sunday's merger, until the completion of negotiations on the 600th Bill of the Law; March 30, 2015, in Monday's merger, until the meeting of the talks of the jobs leading up to Bill 607; March 31st 2015, in Tuesday's merger, until the meeting of the talks of the Legislature, number 621, was completed; It's 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 1, 2015. Until the meeting at 00 and the non-verbal question in this combination, and the meeting of the work until Bill 627; It's 2:00 p.m. Thursday, April 2, 2015. Until the meeting at 00 and the completion of the negotiations of the work of the Law Bill 634 rows in this merger; On Friday (April 3, 2015), until the meeting of Friday's merger of 636 rows to the end of the talks of the Legislature, Until Saturday, April 4, 2015, when the talks were completed until Bill 678; On Sunday, April 5, 2015, until the meeting of the talks of business until Bill 51; Until the completion of the daily schedules in the following combinations at 2 p.m. if the daily programs are not completed; The Law Proposal and Bill 688 and 687 were proposed to be considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections as follows. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0117par0221	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise to express my opinion in favor of our group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal recommends that some of the work on the agenda be put on the front lines by the Turkish Grand National Assembly's General Assembly's office's work date and time until April 5th. According to this, Konya MP Kerim Özkul and his friends in 688 rows have offered the law and the Law on Occupational Health and Safety number 687 and the Law on Change in some KHK are recommended to take the six and seventh places on the agenda, which are the two main laws. Law number 688 consists of 3 chapters and 90 articles. The Law Proposal No. 687 consists of 2 chapters and 37 articles. Other than that, my dear friends, Mr. Efkan Ala, our Home Secretary, is also recommended that Gensoru Öngress (11/45) which was given by the National Movement Party Group (11/45) be taken into the Special Agenda section today and completed their talks today. On the other hand, it is recommended that the General Assembly meet on April 5th, except for 7-8, 14-15 and 21 March and Sunday (March 22nd) and on other days, including weekends, and continue to work until the negotiations are completed. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0118par0228	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0119par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Justice and Development Party's group proposal. I salute the High Council. Again, we're looking at a classic working schedule of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here, starting from today until April 5th, a study was planned to reveal the continuous working schedule. Now, it is imperative that the majority party of the ruling Justice and Development Party is responsible for the Parliament's work. Now, when we put our hands on our conscience, we often discuss a bill that we call an internal security bill for 13 or 14 days, in which the House is on and off, and no discussion has been held. Again, we're going through a process in which the Republican People's Party, including the date of the National Movement Party's usual Grand Congress, has made a preliminary election in many counties, where none of this has been taken into account, and only the Justice and Development Party has turned the House on its own understanding. So that's your idea of democracy, that democracy exists only for yourself. Friday, Saturday, you vacationed on Sunday because the Justice and Development Party had a theme roll call in the provinces, and you took a vacation from Friday. What about the work of other parties in Congress? Why don't you consider it? Is democracy only for you? That's what the democracy you practice in Turkey requires, so it's open to you all the borders of democracy, but if you're making opposition in this country, you're doomed to be destroyed, all your laws, all your practices. So I'm asking you from here: for twelve or thirteen days we've discussed a bill in this House called the internal security bill, and the day has come, and we've worked 19 or 30 hours nonstop, and we've been doing this until 13 hours and morning prayers. Now, I'm asking the Justice and Development Party here: Why would you have reached an agreement with the Kurdistan Workers' Party, to make some arrangements in these laws, to establish an internal security bill under the direction of Abdullah Ocalan, who lay down a terrorist organization, and why do you feel the need to run this parliament for thirteen days without end? I mean, isn't it a shame to force this nation into the light, the electricity, the water, the overtime of those who work here? In these thirteen days, when there were so many problems in this country, waiting for work, waiting for a job, waiting for a job, waiting for a job, waiting for an appointment, until our farmer, for thirteen days, this assembly will either be passed, or will be passed according to instructions. What right had you to live the process of the Justice and Development Party as a group? Now, you've received threats and instructions during the talks with Abdullah Ocalan, and I'm telling you, this is a threat and a directive, what is it called today, February 28th, during the process announced in Dolmabahçe? What is said is that some of the articles in the internal security bill will be withdrawn from the substances we do not want. In fact, there will be renegotiated and held negotiations on the items in which the fight was fought. What is the Justice and Development Party group that we're meeting tonight and will take over the arrangements from now on? And from here, the speakers of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, were saying that the People's Movement Party had been with the HDP, defending its bonzai, its Molotovkotaki. Now, I come here and address the Justice and Development Party Group -- its speakers, Prime Minister and President should apologize to the Turkish nation. Yes, we misled the nation, we lied to the people, we lied to the people. We're the ones meeting with the PKK, meeting with Ocalan. Shouldn't we be the ones negotiating with the HDP Group? Isn't that a moral attitude? Doesn't it require a political moral attitude? Now, there's no stability in you, precious MPs. There's no stability in the government. Now, the Home Secretary is sitting here, and I'm asking here: On February 26th, the Deputy Prime Minister, who is in charge of the process, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the talks with the PKK, makes a statement before you make these statements. What do the MPs say? This is the government's statement, which is the government's expression: it's easy to write these things down, it's easy to make some statements. We never get together with the HDP and make a statement around the same table. Who says that? Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker Bulent Arinc. I'm asking the Home Secretary here to answer as Home Secretary: Did you make the messages of Abdullah Ocalan as a government, Mr. Home Secretary? But they don't need to listen to it either, so they're lying to these people in front of them, and they're being tricked into looking them in the eye. Three days ago, four days ago, Mr. President Malatya was roaring, and Elazıg was roaring, the extensions of the separatist terrorist organization in parliament. He said to HDP, "They are resistance to prevent terrorism there." What happened today? Dear MPs, I'm asking you, what happened to the terrorist organization where there was a HDP that was his extensions? Who says that? President Erdogan says so. What changed today? Yesterday, you call him "Yes." You say "Yes." You say "Yes." You say "Yes." You say "Yes." You say "Yes." This is the last place you've ever brought this country. Dear lawmakers, before each election, you form with the perception management: 2+2 is 4/, but with the perception management, you show 2+2 is 7, you show 8. Before 2013, Abdullah Ocalan again sent a message in the squares of Diyarbakir that the PKK would drop the gun. Prime Minister Erdogan of the period, the government spokesmen gave a spring air, and they said: "The guns are being dropped." Peace is coming in Turkey after thirty years. Where is peace? From 2013 to 2015, did the PKK leave weapons? PKK, let go of the gun, it's armed. In addition to the armed men on the mountain, the KCK, along with the construction of the militants in the city, has even claimed to have close to 500,000,000 anti-aircraft weapons in their hands. Do you believe that the PKK will lay down arms today? How can you believe the PKK's terrorist organization will drop weapons? I'm asking the Home Secretary -- he's sitting in the back -- what's the Home Secretary, Abdullah Ocalan, in prison for? So, what do you guys do? The Home Secretary will also be tried, and I'm clear because you're running a terrorist organization from Abdullah Ocalan, who is sentenced to life in prison for building and running a terrorist organization in this country, Mr. Home Secretary. So, you're putting this country into chaos, you're leading this country into a dead end, you're going to do the same thing tomorrow as you did yesterday in this country. You formed the PKK's parallel state as a government. I address the members of this government: there is a parallel organisation of PKK terror in a part of our country in the East. They formed security forces there, they established their own law enforcement unit, they established their own legal system, they created courts, they collect taxes, they maintain order, they form their own armed forces. Let alone the drop of weapons, we've also seen in the events of October 6th, 7th in this country that there's an internal rebellion under the pretext of Kobani. The PKK has grown stronger in your time than ever before. PKK does not release weapons, put that in your mind, the PKK does not release weapons without land. Who says that? The Black Snake is singing, because the gun is our only guarantee. We don't leave guns, he says. It is not right for those who do not see it to be a government in this country. This country is not your father's property, it has the blood of martyrs in this country. I'm telling you, don't go into anything you'll regret tomorrow. And the grandfathers of those who sat at this time gave their lives for this flag, for this land, and shed their blood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If it's the wrong vision of three or five people today, you can't drag this country into a deadlock because of their passion.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0120par0248	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. In your favor, Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0120par0251	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0252	You cause chaos in this country, you cause crisis. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0120par0253	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear congressmen, first of all, we're not putting this country in chaos, we're not causing a crisis. On the contrary, we're trying to eliminate a long-standing chaos in this country, trying to solve a crisis. Adeta, we're eliminating a matter of shackles on the feet of these people. We're on the eve of a hundred years of solving a problem. We've come to a point like this. Historical steps have been taken in this regard, and these steps must be applauded absolutely. Secondly, when we were doing this, we started with the initiative of our government. And this problem is not just the problem of the EC PARTY, but of the government or just a particular region; it is also the problem of the state and the population of 77 million people. So we have only one solution to this problem, which is our nation itself...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0260	You're dealing with the PKK.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0261	...the demands and expectations of our nation is to end the suffering our nation has suffered.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0262	Your contact is the PKK. You listen from the PKK, and you listen from the murderer of Imran.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0263	Look, dear friends, historical steps are being taken. If the weapons are to be dropped...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0264	No one's leaving a gun.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0265	If the blood stops, if the violence stops, if the pain ends...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0266	Tell me the truth, no one's leaving a gun.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0267	Why, for God's sake, are you so uncomfortable with something that needs to be applauded if the tears are going to stop?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0269	Tell me the truth, no one's dropping the gun! Tell the people the truth, there are no guns to be left behind. They say, "We will not leave guns."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0270	Look, this country's been through a lot, and it's been through a lot, and it's been through a lot, and it's been through a lot, and it's been through a lot. We've died over 35,000. Another 30 years, another 40 years, another 100 years, another 40,000 people lost?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0271	Solomon is the new version of the lie in the Shah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0272	One person's life, one person's blood, is above all politics.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0122par0273	Every day is a new kind of lie.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0274	Let's not do politics here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0123par0275	You're doing literature, literature.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0276	Let's not tolerate any abuse. Here, it's a matter of politics. But by compromise, but by solving the demands of our nation...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0124par0277	I gave him what the PKK wanted.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0278	Let's figure it out by doing what they expect.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0125par0279	Ahmet Aydın, where are we going to do politics?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0280	It's a common problem for all of us, a common problem for the whole nation. If the blood stops, if the violence stops, why bother?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0126par0281	Give up the flag?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0127par0282	No one's bothered if the violence ends, you're fooling people.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0121par0283	I want to ask you, why don't we turn this power into synergy by holding it together, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0128par0285	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0286	Mr. President has stated that we're uncomfortable with the blood stopping and the guns shutting down. We take it as an insult, and we want a promise.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0128par0287	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0290	Dear MPs, the National Movement Party in this country will never mind the guns being silenced and the blood stopping. We come from a political understanding that puts our body on the line so that no one in this country gets hurt by our citizen's fingernails. When we look at our history, when we look at our struggle, Turkish history will surely write it. But you have no right to deceive the nation by saying, "The weapons will be silenced by a perception operation ahead of each election, Ahmet Aydın." I'm not saying any of this. Open the Prime Minister's statements. Again, after the Oslo talks, after the deals you made, you said the same thing, but the Prime Minister of this country, the Prime Minister of this country, the Prime Minister of the period, said that we will never give a price to terror in this country because the Kurdistan Workers and HDP MPs in Şemdinli have embraced it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0292	We won't give you a bonus for terrorism, thanks.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0293	We will not let those who sit with a terrorist organization with blood on their hands and weapons on their hands, and those who negotiate, live under it, in this honorable Assembly. It is Prime Minister Erdogan who says, "We will not say." Please be consistent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0294	That's right, we're not going to pay for terrorism, we're going to end terrorism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0295	However you are going to fight this fight, do it properly, but in order to get political votes in its day, you will say to the HDP, the subsidiary of the terrorist organization. You will say, "There is a negotiation with the PKK terrorists." You will speak of nationalism in the polls, and you will speak of it today. Now, Ahmet Aydın, look, here's Murat Karayilan, the executive board member of the ACK.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0297	He's not our handler.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0298	You're dealing with Karayilan, Abdullah Ocalan.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0299	We're dealing with politics. You're in charge.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0300	He who deals with Abdullah Ocalan also deals with Karayalan and takes the thing. (X) Yeah, they've got the guns. He says... Were you able to get them to drop the guns in 2013, Ahmet Aydın? The guns are going up.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0302	It's the people we're dealing with, people.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0129par0303	Do not give false information to the eyes of these people, but speak the truth, and stand for the people.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0130par0305	Thanks, that's right. The one who's not telling the truth...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0131par0306	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0132par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0131par0308	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0132par0309	Mr. President, there's been an outrage in calling our group the terror extension. Both in his previous speech and in his speech, he used the word "terrorism extension" as a subsidiary of terrorism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0131par0310	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0132par0312	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's rephrase something that we've expressed over and over again from this bench. Peoples' Democratic Party is a political party founded under the laws of this country, believing in the power of democratic politics to resolve the most fundamental problems of Turkey under the roof of this parliament. We have every right to expect respect for this political party from everyone. When we come out here, we never say things to insult a political party, and we expect that from other political parties. The most honorable work our party has done is the concentration of efforts to bring about lasting peace in the process of resolving the most important task and effort. We're proud of it, with which all our party members are honored. While we were doing so, we tried to see the light at the end of a tunnel to bring about lasting peace with our teeth, with our nails, with our earth. Thankfully, today, if the light at the end of the tunnel is seen in terms of peace, if certain processes are developing about the drop of weapons, everyone should be pleased. There's a text in front of me. The topics described in this text -- or the whole text -- are all related to Turkey's democratic problems. What parliamentary legislature would oppose the solution of democratic politics, democratic solutions, free citizenship, democratic state and society relations, identity status, women, culture and ecology issues, on the basis of common country and democratic republics in this country? We stand by what we stand for. Like I said, if we've seen the light at the end of the tunnel in the name of lasting peace, we feel responsible for making more effort. God willing, with the help of our people, we will bring peace to this country.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0133par0317	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0134par0318	Mr. President, I want to make a point.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0133par0319	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0134par0320	Just as our MP Seyfettin Bey was speaking, Mr. President made a statement as Prime Minister of that period. I'd like to make that very clear. In other words, the President has said that HDP is the same as the PKK.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0133par0321	Yeah, it's been rectified in the transcripts again. In your favor, Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0135par0328	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed lawmakers in favor of our group's proposal, according to the 19th Amendment clause of the AK PARTY Group. I salute your high council. Our group proposal organises a working agenda for the Assembly General Assembly until April 5, 2015. In accordance with the demands and expectations of our people, some laws and proposals are being placed on the agenda. Law Proposals 688, 687, 673, 658, 686 rows and Bills are placed at the top of the agenda at 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. The Law Proposals 688 rows and 687 rows will be considered the basic law. The group also proposes Monday (March 2nd 2015) to discuss the motion for the geneorization of our interior minister, Mr. Efkan Ala, the main number (11/45), which has been printed out. The internal security package number 684 will continue to discuss the bill's proposal today after the geneorization talks. The group says I'm in favor of our proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0136par0333	Thank you, Mr. Bak. Against him is Istanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0137par0337	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. I salute you all. The proposal for the Justice and Development Party group includes the move to step forward on the motion for the geneorization of the current interior minister and the reorganisation of the parliamentary agenda in parallel with that. Our friend Gaziantep MP -- our former governor of Bolu -- will explain the views of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the incumbent Interior Minister, Mr Ali Serindağ. So I'm not going to go there, but I'd like to make an assessment of a former Home Secretary who once served as Deputy Prime Minister. This former Interior Minister -- his name Beşir Atalay -- makes an assessment on a supporting television channel last week, giving a speech, saying that there is no such thing as a script that was put into practice using documents produced by illegal construction in the government's intelligence unit to show the Republican People's Party in parallel. Because of the prime minister, there is no need for him to know. The party spokesman has made a statement. Davutoglu has no knowledge. This operation is being carried out directly by a minister associated with the palace, with instructions from the court. Mr. Davutoglu also called Mr. Haluk Koç to the post, and I call upon Mr. Davutoglu to take charge of this illegal establishment. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and In these days, I think there will be more to write about, and there will be more to come. There will be more of these correspondences. We knew that illegal construction within that intelligence unit was connected to a minister's channel with the palace, and it turns out there was this Zat in this scenario, Bashir Atalay. I call this former minister another adjective here: Inspector.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0138par0341	Oh, no, that's not a thing to say. Is that even a word?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0139par0342	Recep, shut up, listen!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0137par0343	I'm going on, listen! It's the mufti who said that. I call to this minister, this Bashir Atalay, if you don't explain the documents you say you have, that you know, you are a mufter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I am here today, and I am here this week, and I am waiting for Bashir Atalay, and if he has the courage to come here and take this stand, let him say these things.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0140par0347	He'll come.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0137par0348	If he wants to, I'm ready to talk to him on whatever TV station he wants to talk to him on. This Twitter correspondence is all a sham, I've explained it, I've sent my statements to those rags called newspapers, I've filed criminal charges, I've filed my lawsuit. My forehead's white. Go ahead, Bashir Atalay, explain this here. Otherwise, you'll have the title of inspector with the right of your wrist next to the title of mole. Politics shouldn't be that simple, friends, it shouldn't be that simple, it shouldn't be that cheap, it shouldn't be that low. Of course we can criticize each other, as political parties, we can do all kinds of criticism for each other, but it's not slander, friends, it's slander. I'm just saying. He says, "Well, he's in this scenario, so he's in it, he's in it." We didn't know he was in charge. He's confessing. Dear friends, actually, that's not really what I'm going to talk about, but when it came to a motion for the Home Secretary, I felt I needed to bring it up. What I'm going to say is the independence of the Central Bank. The president is launching a major attack on the president of the Central Bank for his independence. This attack has been taking place since December 12th. Since 12 December, President Erdogan has regularly launched an attack on the President of the Central Bank, his independence. On Friday morning, I held a press conference at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I said: "The President did not call the President of the Central Bank a traitor." I said that at eleven o'clock; yes, he completed it himself in the afternoon; he told the president of the Central Bank that he was a traitor, and as he went abroad, he included the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. Now, I was wondering, what does Mr. Davutoglu do? The President of a country is making a major accusation against the President of the Central Bank, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, calling him the traitor. Mr. Davutoglu, if Mr. Babacan and the president of the Central Bank are traitors, remove them, if not traitors, leave, defend them, don't you have anything to say? So this isn't in the circle that you were drawn to share with Erdogan? Have you only been given a polemic mission with Kılıçdaroğlu, or do you not have a job as Prime Minister? I'm making a call to the president, you have the State Control Board at your disposal, appoint him if he's guilty of treason. A president has no right to call the state's bureaucrat a traitor. What's he saying? Put the interest down. It says. He lowers interest every time he says, interest goes up. Look, since January 28th, since January 28th, interest rates have risen from 6.7 to 8.6, 2 points.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0141par0357	The interest lobby will earn six floors, for him!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0137par0358	Two points. Look, lower the interest. The more you say, the more you attack the Central Bank, the more the interest lobby wins. And the President is speaking without knowing it? I don't want to think the president was talking without knowing. He must know the consequences of this. I mean, I don't want to think otherwise. If he's talking on purpose, then there's a service to the interest lobby. So, apparently, you're against interest, you're actually serving interest lobby. Every time he talks, the dollar goes up. In the morning, the citizen sees where the president is speaking, talks to the TOBB, takes his dollar right away. He's talking at the TOBB or at an NGO meeting, he's being loaded into the Central Bank, the dollar's rising, he's selling the citizen's dollar. Of course, when you say citizen, you have billions of dollars. Two lobby winners, interest lobby, dollar lobby. The president's speech serves the interest lobby and the dollar lobby, with no other consequences. I'm calling Mr. Davutoglu here, either take care of your Deputy Prime Minister, the President of the Central Bank, or dismiss them, otherwise it's unacceptable. Recep Tayyip Erdogan served as Prime Minister in this country for 12 years. Since you can't solve structural problems in the economy for 12 years, the Central Bank can't reduce interest. He's just trying to make up for the flaws in your economic policy with interest policy, that's all. But if you claim otherwise, if you don't think they're doing their job, then the Prime Minister has to remove them, or he has to go out and tell the President that: "No, these friends are doing their job." One of them is not going to shut up. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0142par0363	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0143par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0142par0365	Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0143par0366	Mr. President, there's bullying, I want your word.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0142par0367	Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0143par0371	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Group Vice President spoke here in a violent, violent way.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0144par0373	I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0143par0374	It's hard to answer in two minutes, two and a half minutes, in ten minutes, but let me tell you, everyone knows the relationship between the parallel structure and the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0145par0375	The world knows.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0143par0376	Your own MP is assisting with the parallel structure. He resigned.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0146par0378	Woe to you and woe to you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0147par0379	Where's the document, the document, the document?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0148par0380	Document, document!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0381	Your Izmir MP said that our party became the servant of the parallel structure, the toy of the parallel structure. The parallel structure gives them something, and they read it. That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0150par0382	I'm waiting for a document. I have a document in my hand. You said, "I'm waiting for a document."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0151par0383	You slanderers!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0384	Your tweets are legendary, with sheets in the papers. That's what I'm saying, nothing more.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0152par0385	Accomplice!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0386	I didn't add anything new.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0153par0387	You're not ashamed of slander!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0388	That's why I'm returning your words.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0153par0389	Document, document!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0390	As for the mole, we've talked a lot about it here. It was slander, and the judge said it was slander.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0154par0391	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0392	Then I sued Mr. Kilicdaroğlu for compensation after that verdict.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0155par0393	Document, document!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0154par0394	You lost, you lost the case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0395	He says that every day.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0155par0396	Mole, you lost a case!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0397	In the case of compensation, what did the court say in the verdict: you politicians must endure criticism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0155par0398	So?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0399	For him, this is a criticism, not an insult. He said, "He has decided in my favor."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0155par0400	No way!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0156par0401	He turned down the case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0402	Now, Kılıçdaroglu says every day: I won the case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0156par0403	He turned down the case, the case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0404	In the original case, the court said: "What you say is a lie, a mistake. There is no such thing. I filed a settlement suit based on that verdict, but the court says that's what the verdict says. It's an insult to a normal citizen, but it's not an insult to politicians.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0157par0405	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0406	That's the sentence. ▪ They must endure them, he says. Mr. President-General comes out every day, says I won the case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0158par0407	He won, of course.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0157par0408	Yeah, he won. You lost that case. You have been registered as a mole.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0149par0409	Look, when he was told, I said that those who are not fond of their own honor play with the dignity of others. That's what I said about that mole. I'm an honorary politician, and I've always...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0159par0411	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0160par0412	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0161par0413	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0162par0414	I was a minister for 12 years.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0163par0415	Come on! You're slandering me, slandering me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0162par0416	My forehead is open, and my head is high, by the leave of God.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0163par0418	It's a sin to slander! Don't slander me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0162par0419	That's why I come up here and answer to such slanders and insults with the same violence.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0163par0420	Give me the document, the document. Where's the document?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0162par0421	I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0164par0423	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0164par0425	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Noises]] Please be quiet, let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0428	He teased me in his speech, sir, I want your word.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0164par0429	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0431	Mr. Atalay, no balling in midfield. I told you to challenge me, explain the documents you have.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0166par0432	I'm here, I'm here, I'm here!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0433	I know you mean it. You say it on the TV show. I'm telling you from here: none of those tweets are mine. I didn't write to anyone, I didn't write to anyone. It's a slander. It's a fabrication. I sent my statement to those newspapers, which I called "pachavra," to those newspapers, which I called "pachavra," and I filed a lawsuit, and I filed a criminal complaint. I'm telling you, show me the documents you have, or you're the mufter.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0167par0436	You opened this door, Mr. President, by publishing the letters.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0437	He said so himself, the words of the mole and of the nurse are not an insult. Well, I'm sorry, I'm correcting it. Of course, I'm looking forward to making a case on the mufter, which, of course, I mean on purpose, is the word "Mufteri", mufter! Come on, Mr. Atalay, I invite you to sue me, I invite you to sue me, look, if this is an insult, I invite you to sue. You make a case, you win, and I'll come, and I'll say, "Yes, I did not mean to insult Mr. Atalay. I didn't mean to insult you, but if you slander a human being based on something that doesn't exist, then that person has the right to call you "Mr. Inspector." I'd be upset. I'd expect you to think... that you've been here in rebellion against that word, the mole, that you believe yourself to be right. So, why do you honor these fake tweets and texts about the group's vice president or our party, do you think it's appropriate? Is that the way politics should be, guys?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0167par0438	You opened the door. It's about them.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0439	Mr. Turan, you bought it that day, so you tried to show a newspaper clipping here. Look, this isn't happening.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0167par0440	Mr. President, you opened this door.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0441	You didn't say anything else, though, I know, you didn't say anything else, you just made a claim.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0167par0442	I didn't read it, I believe in innocence, but you violated it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0165par0443	Okay. My respects to all of you, my friends.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0168par0446	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The Justice and Development Party's recommendation...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0169par0451	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit03spe0168par0452	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Justice and Development Party's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group has been accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0168par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting talks on the opening of a geneor for Minister of Interior Efkan Ala (11/45) on behalf of the group's representatives, İzmir MP Oktay Vural and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who has failed to carry out his duties in maintaining public order, who has set the ground for the parallel state formation of the PKK/KCK. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it was printed and distributed earlier and was read in the 62nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 23/2/2015. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. I'm now reading the names of the members who have been quoted: Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, Muş MP Demir Çelik, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Kurıkkale MP Oğuz Kağan Koksal on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, and Efkan Ala on behalf of the government. Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu will now speak as the first statement. It's been ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0170par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs, Mr. Efkan Ala, on the basis of the motion we have made regarding the public order, the peace and order that we have given him, and on the grounds that the unitary state structure has been practically corrupted and that the parallel state structure has been laid out in certain parts of our country. I salute your high council. The Ministry of Interior is responsible for providing internal security and security. Public order and the protection of general morality, bans and surveillance of trafficking, traffic patterns, crime and the fight against criminals are within the Ministry of Interior's field of duty. The Ministry of the Interior, which has emerged as a result of the joint assessment of such and such tasks, is the protection of the country and the nation's indivisible integrity by managing security agencies, and the rights and freedoms written in the Constitution. In short, the Home Office is the keeper of the constitutional order. The minister is the head of this organisation, who performs the co-operation and co-ordination function, which fulfills the duties given to him by the Constitution and by law. In the recent talks with PKK terrorist organisation, the Kurdish expansion, the process of solutions, is referred to by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorist organization, and is controlled by the PKK (PKK) terrorist organization, a region in which the terrorist organization has established sovereignty. In this area, the PKK's terrorist organisation's extensions have formed security teams, making calls in public places, identity checks, road controls. Again, members of PKK's urban construction have established a judicial system, established courts; they are looking at lawsuits, field cases, divorce cases and other cases. Even public officials are being notified of the cases in these courts. The city construction of the PKK terrorist organisation collects tax money from our citizens by establishing a tax system. The terror organization's armed elements have come down from the mountains to the cities with their weapons, cut off interstate roads for weeks, but security units in charge of security have not violated the Constitution by violating Article 137, under the orders of the Minister of Interior. We're all aware that the Home Secretary did not do his duty, but was left to watch, in the face of a problem, such as terrorism, which concerns not only the Turkish community, but the entire human race. The Ministry of the Interior, which has been suspended for four years while the mayor of the National Movement has been elected for five years, has been indifferent to the mayors who fill the streets and streets of cities with pits in order to prevent security forces from transportation to the terrorist organization, while Diyarbakır is ignoring the mayor who has failed to carry out his duties in the 6-7 October events. It is widely known that Turkish Armed Forces' demands to operate on terrorist organisations were rejected by the governors because they were ordered by the Minister. A number of examples have been seen in the public opinion that Şırnak Governor has asked the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to provide peace in Cizre, and that Diyarbakır Security Commissioner has been begging the leaders of the terrorist organization to avoid further incidents. The Ministry of Interior, responsible for police and security in the first degree, has transferred this mission to the AKP militia in the west, the armed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the east and southeast. The Ministry of Interior is not fighting the parallel. Those who are close to themselves can find a place under loving wings, even if they are parallelists. The Interior Ministry is fighting Turkish nationalism, Turkish nationalists. Instead of securing the security of the country, the Ministry of Interior has been tasked with securing the security of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The Ministry of Interior has become a knight in the temple. In the fight against crimes such as theft, corruption, terrorism, women's murders, drug trafficking and use, the Interior Ministry has remained in the classroom. Since these crimes in society can't be prevented, they are often revealed and then tried to be punished. Crime and guilt spread like an epidemic in society. The preventive law enforcement activities, which will eliminate this situation, are not being carried out, but the preventing law shows only that Erdogan and AKP are present in political opposition. The lawless practices of the Ministry of Interior have never been so much in history; almost all jobs and transactions return from the judiciary. Ministry law units don't have time to produce services from giving defences, cases are constantly lost. Along with other ministries, this illegal understanding of the Interior Ministry has become so widespread that the Constitutional anti-constitutional regulations have come to the agenda to save the situation. This understanding seeks to legalise illegality by implementing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is one of the examples of the implementation of judicial decisions broken by the Constitutional Court in two years. It is another arrangement that renders judicial decisions on privatisation practices dysfunctional. Now, the bill, known as the internal security package, submitted by the Interior Ministry to Parliament, is being tried to legalise illegal practices. For example, the discharge of those who are eligible from the police chiefs, the retirement of others, or the transfer of police personnel according to their convenience, or the orders of the post office. Again, the 126th and 127th articles contained in the internal security package change the Law 4483, which protects inspectors, inspectors, or preliminary investigators who report with grudges, grudges, and memory. With this arrangement, the number of trigger inspectors will be increased, and the compensation of those who file reports for grudges, grudges, and remembrance will be covered by the state. There has never been another period in which law, Constitution, and laws have been brought so far underfoot. That's why we're giving you the gene. We've taken advantage of these facts by moving forward. I hope those with a conscience will say yes to our gene. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as you all know, there has been a period of talks between the government AKP and the PKK. In the framework of this negotiation, the mouth, which said that meeting with the terrorist organisation was an asshole, at which point it came, said that meeting with the terrorist organization was an outrage, and what was asked was not given during my 12 years as Prime Minister? It turned into a form. At a time when the government and police were discredited, disabled, prevented from fighting terrorism, identified as corruption, corruption, theft, police officers, judges and prosecutors who identified it as paralegals, ▪ we face a government that empowers the PKK terrorist organization, its baby killer leader in Imralı. The AKP governments who received your vote of confidence were negotiating with the PKK, hiding it from the public and from you. When these talks were decrypted, it was stated that the interviewers were bastards. The owner of this statement, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, now confesses that he gave whatever the PKK wanted during his prime minister's term, let alone the meeting. Among the co-ordinators of negotiations with the PKK are the Ministry of Interior, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security of this Ministry. During the time that the PKK terror organization's armed elements were found to have left Turkey's territory, Prime Minister Davutoglu didn't leave Turkey, and terrorists from Turkey didn't leave Turkey, and we hid it from the public. It is clear that the PKK will not lay down arms until it has reached its goals. The armed elements of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have been expressed by the political extensions of PKK (PKK), where those murderers are guaranteed for them and are insured. The PKK has never said that it will drop a gun, that it will regret it. Now, due to the upcoming elections, a 10-point agreement has been raised with the demands of PKK terrorists. With this agreement, the PKK, which has received all the concessions it has asked for from the AKP, should be discussed the content of democratic politics. Speaking of the national and local dimensions of the democratic solution, he talks about laying stones in the path of PKK's unified independent Kurdistan target. Speaking of free citizenship, the legal acceptance of being a Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) member is intended to remove all verbs, including massacres, rapes, extortion, looting. ▪ Democratic politics is intended to legitimize NGOs from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The concept of identity and pluralist recognition is education in the main language from democratic understanding. From the concept of a common country, the Democratic Republic is intended to remove the concept of Turkishism from the Constitution, in particular the introduction of subdivisions, Kurdish identity, from the Constitution. Recep Erdogan and his government agree. What is done is to deceive the Turkish nation. The AKP intends to deliver the sheep to the wolf without scaring them. The PKK's atheist terrorists have been made representatives of our Kurdish brothers and sisters. The AKP has taken national, spiritual, religious values into business with its voting account, and in return, it wants to remain in power no matter what. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts, I request the acceptance of our client, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0171par0041	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mud MP Demir Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0172par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I'd like to greet you all with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party and share the opinion of our party regarding our Minister of the Interior. Mr. President, I want to analyze and study the adventure of the 100-year-old state of the Republic of Turkey, yesterday, to the day of yesterday, to the day of the day, and to express how we are approaching Turkey's current administrative, political structure because the Middle East, which is part of the world's reshaped world, is part of the strategic wars, and with which we face reshape the last five years of power wars. Mr. President, the precious MPs, yes, the world, the nation, have been in need of sharing, division, each and every time by global imperial forces that have seized the plus value since they've met the unitary states. Wars started on unnecessary grounds, social, political, ecological destruction, world wars facing the chaos of the people, World War I, World War I, World War I, and today another war of sharing, the third shared war of the world. Without reading this sharing war correctly, before we can take up positions with the new dynamics that globalization has created, we will face a repetitive, repetitive process of law enforcement, which is subject to repeat routine debates, which we will not be able to respond to the spirit of parliament, the people of Turkey, the people of Turkey, the people of the oppressed, the ones who are governed. Since the Ottoman Empire, which was split, divided and shared immediately after the dangers caused by the First World War, was unable to meet its administrative, political, bourgeois democracy, with its bourgeois democratic revolution, we are witnessing a parliament today where the founding will is caused by the bureaucracy of soldiers, which is the basis of monotheism, solid centralism, and the mindset of the state and the state that led to its problems. When the Founder's House became a bureaucrat, when it became a soldier, perception approached a sense that shaped, shaped, shaped everything, everything on this contrast, by going to the distinction between enemy and friend, blue forces and red forces. Do we have problems, problems, political, social, cultural problems that can't be instilled? We've been able to get freedom, peace and rights from the people for a hundred years, by concealing behind structures, institutions, political actors that we claim to be the extension of those external enemies, by claiming they're scratching them out to an external enemy, by calling them betrayal or treason by acting out to the public. For the people to be silent, for their identity, their culture, their language, their freedom, their peace; for fear, your cunning, not only from violence alone, but from police, law enforcement, but also from that adjective, because he feared that adjective, because he was afraid of it, he himself kept silent, played his silences, and still plays. We've had problems that we've been afraid of, at times, of the fact that the central state hasn't been able to solve its relationship with the environment at a democratic point for a hundred years, of the state's lack of democratic and participating understanding, of the problem between the monotheistic structure of the central state and the identity and the cultures for a hundred years. We have ethnic identity-based problems, cultural, religious-based problems, class-based problems, gender-based problems. We have yet to face the fact that a number of women have been sacrificed to massacres and murders a day, and we have not been able to prevent the massacres of women. We still haven't been able to prevent the massacres of children, the murders. Imagine 255 children killed by police bullets during the 12 years of AKP's power. This is the number of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, but some independent NGOs claim to be around 477. In other words, the fact that around 8 citizens have been slaughtered in Gezi, the fact that every democratic attempt by Kurds, every struggle for rights has resulted in gas, baton, lead; the fact that dozens, hundreds, thousands of civilians have been killed is the result of a hundred years of reflex. The state still does not see everyone from Kurdish to Turkish, from Arab to Circeşek (Turkish), from Alevi (Kevini) to Sunni (Sunni) to all equal, who does not want to see, who does not want to see, who does not want to see, who does not want to see; who does not want to see, who breaks his will, who is subject to assimilation policies, continues to gain the rights of the people in this country, by the policies of Turkishizing Kurd (Kurdish) and the policies of Sunni (Sunni) to Sunni). He's being hostileized who wants rights. He gives people the right to strike -- his worker's employee -- who fights for rights and demand. Not only did he ignore some of his rights of essence, his objections to labour exploitation, violence everywhere, oppression everywhere, persecution everywhere. This has become more and more recent. Global imperial forces, which have imposed their strategic interests, political and economic interests on the Middle Eastern people, have been near us for four years, drawing new strategic goals, new ones, including Kurdish, Arab, Turkmen, Sunni, Alevi, Alevi, and Alevi, against Sunni. The problem that has brought us to face four years of endless social and political destruction, ecological destruction, has been going on for more than three years at Rojava, Kobani, in Kobani. For the past three years, Turkey has been living in deep isolation in international relations as a result of its own relative approach to its depth, not knowing how the international policy outside will not be consistent with the fact that it has not been able to clear the inside of its garden for three years, and its contradictions, its conflicts, its conflicts, its conflicts, its conflicts. Think about it. There was strong public support behind the will of the democratic solution process launched on January 3, 2013. If this public support, which we believe still exists, had been owned as of that day, given the opportunity to have an honorable peace, a qualified negotiation, the lives that we have lost so far would not have been lost for more than two years, and they would have continued to live among us. But the governments, which are the means of saving the state, saving power and capital, are alienating the public, despite the public, losing people because of their policy based on the state, despite society. We saw this often in October 6-7-8, early October 2014. Imagine a government that would have said that on January 3, 2013, it would have said that it favoured a democratic solution, that it should have put the Assembly in place to evolve the democratic solution into a qualified negotiation, but it was transparent, open, public, when the process was supposed to be carried out by democratic public and manageable. Not only did he enjoy the approach, but he remained silent when it was time for the power of attorney war to continue right next to us, hoping for help from those who fought the power of attorney when it came to it. When Al Qaeda gave up hope of Al Nusra, even if it wasn't a routine fight with the DAİŞ and ISIS gangs that have been on our agenda and on our agenda for the past two years, some of them remained silent to the practices of wild, dirty warlords, the practice of practical wildlife warfare. But all democratic public opinion, especially Kurds, who want to deliver humanitarian aid, who want to extend their hand and strive to keep human values from being reduced, has put their hands and hearts at stake. The hand that was placed in the middle had turned upside down, and at the time Suruç, or Ceylanpınar, or along the border line, was faced with the deaths of eight children, including the last January in Cizre, who had been shot again, gas, baton, pressurised water, and the masses had been weakened, and had established rule over the masses. Mr. President, we need to understand that globalization is running these power of attorney wars. There's no soldiers, there's a shortcut to not getting involved in the game of global imperial forces that lead power wars, as well as the soldiers, who don't show up with their tools, but turn the public's discrepancies, their contradictions into opportunities. It's the quickest, most harmless, most risky way known. This road is democratization. We can solve our problems that we can't solve -- ethnically based, culturally based, religiously based, labor-based, or class-based -- but there's only one condition -- instead of the oligarical, bureaucratic state mechanism, when we're doing a democratic state, a state open to democracy, when we act, there are conditions for us to treat and heal the wounds that have been bleeding for a hundred years. But as we have not shown the healing effort and effort for a hundred years, whether we continue to bleed and bleed every day by scratching and scratching our bleeding wounds, we waste both the work and the work and the resources, and the work of the new wars of death upon waste is nothing more than a tool for trafficking. Imagine that over 60,000 people have died for 40 years, 2 trillion spent over 40 years. If two trillions of military spending had been mobilized to our education today, to our health, we could have opened up a way for them to receive a salary at the poverty level, instead of two trillion sources being sentenced to a minimum wage today. Instead of spending two trillions on war, death and killing machines today, what harm could this prosperous, peaceful and prosperous society have done to our pensioners today? We do it on our own; we divide it, we contrast it, we alter it, we take advantage of the anti-enemy policies. Someone can do that, Uncle Ahmet on the street, Aunt Ayþe on the street, but we lawmakers, who believe in democratic politics, take over from the public by democratic politics, need to think differently and further about the actors of political parties. If we think like ordinary human beings, we have to do a conscientious accounting of whether we've been able to delay a similar to what we haven't been able to do in a hundred years when we approach the problem with its reflexes and responses and approach it and kill it and position ourselves on enemy-friendly forces. Therefore, democratic politics is needed for everyone. War is destruction, death, poverty, hunger, poverty, tears, blood. But peace is freedom, it's life, it's holding on to new life, it's being on the side of freedom, it's a prosperous, rich and happy society. Therefore, we need to resolve our historical problems, which have been accumulated through democratic politics. The Home Office and the government need to take this understanding. The question is whether it is security or freedom? The dilemma is democracy or authoritarianism? The answer to the question is peace, freedom, democracy. He lost the others, he keeps losing them. Kurdish reconciliation with Turk is the first step of the century. The partnership of the Kurdish (Kurdish) with the Turk (Turkish) is the most basic guarantee of our future in peace in our common home. The meeting, association of the Christian with the Sunni, and the multi-identity of this country are the only parameters of today's democracy, the solution of the 21st century democracy, which corresponds to multinational culture. Now identities, beliefs, cultures, thousands, tens of thousands of years of human values are waiting for us to inherit them as a common legacy. When we don't look at the Suryani, the Armenian, the Islamic, the Christian, the Arab, the Kurdish, the Turk, the oppressed, the poor, the laborer, when we don't act in a sense that they have as much rights as we do, when we take refuge in the security policies of the state that we need an enemy, the deaths don't stop, the tears don't stop, and the mothers keep crying. If we're sincere, if we want a country where the mothers don't cry, in which the tears stop, instead of the killing machines of war, freedom calls, the cries of peace and songs rise, we'll leave aside all our arguments, our language, and other adjected adjectives from yesterday. Instead of seeking help from security policies, instead of bragging about being NATO's 2nd military force with nearly 1 million soldiers, we should be proud of our democracy, our peace, our freedom. We need an enlightened country with an intellectual buildup, a teacher, a doctor, an engineer, an intellectual buildup, instead of being proud of the greatest police force in Europe, not content with the existing police force. This country belongs to all of us. In this country, we need both flowers and plants and birds and humans who want to live together in peace. A man's color, his identity, his faith, his opinion, no questions asked, and everyone, everyone, has as much right as a president, as a prime minister, as a minister, as a congressman. Let's clear the way of thought. People should be able to think with their thoughts and ideas, to organize what they think, to touch the public with the structures they're organizing. So we say that we, starting with the Ministry of Interior in Turkey, where democratic politics will be brought forward in today's Turkey, give administrative, financial autonomy to municipalities, local governments, remove the reservations of the Council of Europe's Regionals, Local Governments Autonomies, and first open the way for our municipalities, our local governments. We won't be enough. Turkey must have the right to represent itself in its parliament, its administration, its beliefs, its beliefs, its ideas, its administration, and its budget, on the basis of respect for the footprints of ecology, its territorial rights. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, let's not be afraid, let's not be afraid, let's not be afraid, let's be afraid, let's be afraid that someone shares our administration, someone has a say and authority in this House, someone has a budget, a budget, and will be involved in the decision process; he has just as much right as we do. When we open the way for that right to the end, we lead to democratic politics, allowing the democratized state to reach equal, free citizens through democratic politics. Once again, I want to thank you all for allowing me to share my thoughts about this young man when I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0173par0057	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat is not afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0174par0061	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Ministry of Interior says the Ministry of Interior is responsible for the country's general public and public order. The ministry carried out its mission by offering thousands of martyrs -- intelligence and police. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of the Interior, which has given itself the task of protecting its undivisable integrity and borders with its country and its nation, is far from fulfilling its mission, and the PKK has become one of the main actors in the tandantal solution process, I'm afraid. The memory of our martyrs, the severed hand of thousands of terror veterans, his arm, his eyes, his eyes, his eyes, burned beyond recognition, there have been numerous collaborations and betrayals in this geography. It's one of the biggest betrayals this nation has ever seen when an organization that this nation has entrusted its lives to negotiate with a terrorist organization on the back of its country and nation. This state, founded in the blood of all of us, is in destruction after destruction with this republic, AKP. There is not a day when a portion of our historical acquish shall not be broken, nor shall our sanctity be questioned. With the AKP, the fate of this nation has been sadly destroyed and shamed in national matters. Today, the conditions of Sevr brought before the country are imposed. The founder of this is today's government, which has not absorbed the established republic, the national and unitary state, and has not hesitated to cooperate with the enemies of the state and nation, even to seek a rematch. The PKK, the puppet of the Western states, and its political spokesman, HDP, met in the same square, and, sadly, this photo frame was served from Dolmabahçe, where the founder of a country's last breath gave its last breath, as if it would deliver a last breath message to our nation. The common goal of this evil alliance is to destroy the national and unitary state with different ideas, end the Turkish race and put it on the legal ground with a constitutional amendment. The meeting of betrayal and explanation in Dolmabahçe is the conclusion of the solution process. It's not like it hasn't come to this in the morning. The AKP, which came to power in 2002, began looking for ways to give up the fight against terrorism and negotiate as part of its commitments to the ruling forces. In 2002, he encouraged and encouraged the PKK, which was trapped in caves. As soon as the AKP comes to power, it has chosen to discredit and neutralize our security forces and soldiers. The region has been defied by false accusations against its state, against its nation, while special operations forces have been withdrawn from the region, and temporary village rangers have been left alone. We are strengthening local governments. With the abuse, all control and control powers of the state over municipalities have been removed, and municipalities using public resources have been set up to use these resources in the separatism line. Ergenekon, the commander-in-chief of the Turkish Armed Forces, has been arrested with a number of untalented embassies, such as the Sledgehammer, and our army has been struck with major coups. Talks have been launched with PKK terrorist organization in Oslo, their every request has been moved to parliament, and it has been enforced. Terror is massized, politicized. The Constitution has been given a message to the PKK that even the negotiations of the state's founding philosophy can be made by targeting the unchanging provisions of the Constitution. During this period, the PKK proposed pre-winter ceasefires and continued its actions in the spring. The organization thus strengthened the permanent mountain staff. On the one hand, peace talks have been expressed, and on the other hand, threats and blackmail have been put under pressure to put pressure on the people of the region, and psychological superiority has been taken over the field. Forgive my life when I am caught, and I will do whatever you wish. The separatist, who said, sat at the negotiating table with the AKP-PKK flirtation, and was able to move PKK out of İmran. The PKK, an enemy of our state and nation, has begun to deal internationally with ill-advised and shallow foreign policy followed by the AKP. The PKK, which Turkey has agreed to at the negotiating table, sees today as almost no state terrorist organisation. Dear MPs, on February 28, the final act of AKP scandals was staged at Dolmabahçe Palace in İstanbul, and the ten-point text of treason prepared by the killer of 40,000 people was opened. In his message, he called on the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to gather its extraordinary congress to decide that he had given up armed action in the spring. With this call, he has declared his intention to do so-called democratic politics. The 10-point Ocalan text is nothing more than a declaration of the PKK's involvement in politics as a political party and thus the release of amnesty, the declaration of democratic autonomy and a share of the regional economy, the legitimacy of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as law enforcement forces in the region, the recognition of Kurdish identity in the Constitution, the dissolution of the national state, the division of the sovereignty rights of the Turkish nation, and the adoption of all these issues with a new constitution. It is as if Turkey is a defeated state and the PKK is a victorious organisation. Davutoglu, the so-called head of the government, is very happy and happy with this painting, and our young people will now be involved in democratic politics, not in the mountains or in the streets. Deputy Prime Minister Akdoğan, Interior Minister Ala, AKP Group Deputy Chairman Mahir Ünal Mondros poses as contractors. The pool media has been ordered to sing the songs of peace. These images are no different from the images taken at the signing ceremony of the Turkish death warrant, the Mondros Investigation. Even those present in this photograph know that the PKK will not release weapons. However, it is not the first or last call of the PKK to lay down arms. After Ocalan announced that terrorists would be removed from the border and would give up the weapon, no terrorist had ever left the border nor had he left a weapon. Aren't they the ministers themselves? Two thousand others joined the organization after that call. If it isn't Mr. Ala, the Home Secretary is about to get out of control. The call to drop a gun is nothing more than a repeat of a game that has been played against Turkey dozens of times. On 29 March 2013, Erdogan will be shot in a television program leaving the PKK weapons in Turkey. He said, even dated August 15, 2013. On January 21, 2012, Bashir Atalalay stated that the PKK would drop the gun. At the time, the National Movement Party said that PKK would not leave arms, that it was a AKP-PKK lie to be used in domestic politics. At that time, they fed on the blood of martyrs to the National Movement Party. In 2013, the guns were silent. Those who deceived the nation were cowardly to watch our soldiers and police be martyred in the following years. In Dolmabahçe, the AKP has bowed its eyes and lowered its eyes as the PKK's demands were addressed. The PKK has said yes, in its anguish that the party will move to politics, that the general pardon and the criminal will be released. As usual, the PKK does not encourage more compromises, but yes, it is. By April, he demands the release of Ocalan (Ecalan), or he has declared that he will continue armed action. The PKK will not leave weapons without land because that is the foundation and the purpose of the PKK's existence. No one has ever heard of the PKK dropping a gun in its mouth. Today, we say once again that the PKK will not remove its criminal organization or leave weapons as long as its final goals remain in the middle. Where is Home Secretary Efkan Ala, when all this is going on? We only have one thing, to change the structure of the state, transform it. The current constitutional order, not order. He said Mr. Ala, who is in charge of maintaining constitutional order. He's the one who's always involved in all the government-ordered beatings, knitting activities that sustain this constitutional order. Everything is in the knowledge of the formation of the AKP's power and the return of the staff that it now deems to be the parallelst enemy of the parallel structure with the twist of the winds today. How would the state change its order? First you'll find words the world likes with the concepts of law, equality, freedom and justice, and then you'll put the law under the orders of Erdogan and the government. First we had to declare the Turkish Armed Forces anti-democracy and bring in their commanders, and then we were tricked. For Mr. Ala, the law order, democracy was all tools. On the one hand, the package of democratisation could be carried out; on the other hand, restrictions could be imposed; freedoms could be suspended, even removed, as long as no hair of Erdogan's hair was harmed. He could even afford to change the legal system, the constitutional order. What was the fight against terrorism? The problem had to be resolved with negotiations. In his knowledge, Hakan Fidan was sent to Oslo, and negotiations with the PKK were launched. As Oslo said, all officers who did not understand the government's decision to resist terrorists with government reflexes have been replaced by men who would not be a problem for the PKK. Instead of fighting crime, police chiefs have been begging the PKK people in the region, and we ask you, let's not damage the process. As long as the authorities were sent to the region, they had entered a race of betrayal in the ministry. On October 7, 2012, the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner said, "If you are not crying to the terrorist who died on the mountain, you are not human!" With approaches leading to the PKK, the Southeast Anatolian region gradually began to drift away from the governance and legal order, the overall economic business, and become different. Every area the government evacuated was being filled by the PKK. It was tolerated, even encouraged. Central administration was withdrawing from the area. The PKK-backed municipalities filled these areas one by one. After villages and towns, counties and cities also began to take control of the PKK. In Cizre, the province was declared democratic autonomy and the state was not allowed here. Mr. Ala, the Minister of Public Affairs, was silent. Not only did he shut up, he was forcing all security units to remain silent. The PKK's youth organization, YDG-H, dominated the streets. Now, the PKK was walking around with rags and separatist posters, killing people, burning shops, providing PKK control in every corner. Minister Ala did not put the word parallel aside as if he wanted to draw attention to others. A parallel state structure was set up in the east of our country, but it didn't even concern him, as long as he didn't have a halo. The distance the PKK had traveled through with sensory operations was being tried to hide from public opinion. Operational instructions were left to the governorships in case security forces and Turkish Armed Forces were to operate. The governors also had their eyes set on Ankara, where they aligned themselves with the positions of the traders, unable to give them operational instructions, as had been done in Şırnak. At a meeting with district governors, Interior Minister Ala said that even if you saw a terrorist unit of 100 people on the mountain, you would not touch it. Not only was the PKK building courts, calling public officials to testify, giving fines, banishing people from the region. The PKK had settled in, established its own law enforcement forces, blocked the road, made an ID check. From now on, the police, the gendarmes were asked not to leave their barracks or their outposts until the day of their release. The PKK wanted a share of oil and tax in the region. He was kicking out non-Kurdish businessmen from the area, burning up and impounding business machines. Those who didn't bring the documents from the KCK were not allowed in the tenders. There's barely a public institution left in his building with a Turkish flag. The official language was becoming a second language in Turkish public institutions. Not only did the organisation ban security cameras in the district, it was calling for a curfew on the police, the military, even the Turkish Armed Forces to drop weapons. The Turkish nation's sovereignty was split in two, and the emphasis was on the joint use of sovereignty instead of the understanding of holistic sovereignty. That's exactly what the common definition of the country in Dolmabahçe meant. The president was silent because everything was going as planned in accordance with his dreams of the presidential system. He didn't care that the PKK was slowly forming its state. Davutoglu was silent, he gave voice, but instead of looking at the region with the Turkish people's eyes and speaking in language, I want to learn our beautiful Kurdish. The Home Secretary had closed his eyes, but the AKP had confessed in the Afyon camp that they had lost control of the state in the region. They began to infiltrate the cities, to dominate them. He was saying that he couldn't say that it was a negotiation of the PKK, which the AKP had been implementing for thirteen years. Mr. Secretary, it's been two months. What's changed? Did you control the area, or did the PKK give up its ambitions? Neither. So, what's a ten-point agreement with the PKK, not a surrenderionist, as the National Movement Party says? That's what the constant destiny was pointing to. Those who negotiate terrorism will agree to a surrender. We will not give up arms many times. He could not admit that despite his remarks, they were deliberately condemned to win elections, that they had painted pink paintings for others, that they had carried out a perception management for them, Mr. Home Secretary. The National Movement Party has shared all of this with its nation and has warned it hundreds of times so far that it is not for the good of the wicked people called solution. The AKP government has not heeded the warnings of the National Movement Party and has continued to move forward in the danger of separatism. The AKP is now Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and is a political spokesman for the PKK (PKK). Erdoğan's propaganda, which was carried out by Davutoglu as an alliance with HDP-CHP-MHP, is a defamation campaign to suppress the crimes of the crime with the shame of being caught red-handed. The separatism has surrounded the AKP's entire body and the pure will of our nation, which is consolidated in the AKP, has been gangrenised in this diseased system. The AKP has not stood next to its martyr in Dolmabahçe, but has made the mothers of martyrs cry. Western imperialism read the Turkish death warrant in the face of three government ministers with the mouth of the PKK. A hundred years of account has been handed down over the AKP to our nation; the price of Kuvasimilliye, which showed Turkish power to the one-female monster left in the Istrillal War in Çanakkale, has been placed in front of our nation. In the face of this, the Chief of Staff, sworn to our national security and defense, remains silent in the appearance of weakness. Private Pasha is responsible for narrating the nationalist Movement Party. A few former commanders, who did not question why 40,000 people were bargained with the PKK, were thrown into prisons, were offended by the words of the Nationalist Movement Party. The nationalist movement party will continue to be a translator of the people's feelings, no matter how they go. The President, who blessed even the fingernail of Mr. Special, described himself as unnailed in the face of separatism. This is given at the request of our beloved nation to ensure the resignation of the Interior Minister, who has been watched by the removal of state integrity and the nation's unity, even by the aims of the terrorist organization. Minister of Interior 3152 failed to carry out the duties entrusted to him by Law number 3152; terrorism, dishonorability, has taken its toll. In the country, the Interior Minister has become the Minister who adjusted law enforcement forces to close only 17-25 December corruption incidents. Thousands of police officers and their superiors who have struggled with theft and corruption have been seen to play a role in suppressing, suppressing, threatening illegal wiretaps. The Home Secretary, who is on a mission to fight crime and crime, announced that he closed the opposition websites on December 17th-25th, BTK President Typhoun Acarer/e. Don't worry, with a law, we can stop what we're doing from being a crime. On the day of the theft operation, he was even in the pool media where the prosecutor ordered private police officers to shoot Bilal Erdogan, who came to collect him. With this mentality, it is not possible to establish the state's internal security and ensure state-national integrity. With these ideas, the acceptance of the nationalist movement party's genome is also very important for our state-national and pluralist democracy. I say we expect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to exhibit the historic stand expected of it, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0175par0092	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0176par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0175par0094	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0176par0095	In his speech, Mr. Korkmaz made an unfair criticism in such a harsh accusation as the PKK's political spokesman. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0177par0096	Isn't that a criticism?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0175par0097	How?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0177par0098	Criticism. He said, Mr. President. Mr. President, you don't get criticism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0175par0099	As a group, I don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0178par0100	Yes, he said "AK PARTY" by referring to the AK PARTY group.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0179par0101	The government will answer, sir. The government will answer.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0180par0102	In his last words, the Minister was not yet the Minister.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0181par0103	Over and over again, HDP-CHP and MPP are equal. The AKP said, I will also take the pledge.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0182par0104	He doesn't say "bullshit," he says "criticism," it's criticism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0183par0105	You don't take criticism, why should we?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0184par0106	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0182par0107	He says, "He's got a lot on his plate." He doesn't say, "He's got a lot on his plate." He doesn't say, "You can't promise criticism."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Very dear friends, Mr. President, of course, as we insist on calling it brotherhood, as we call it unity, as we call it social integration, someone has always spoken of betrayal, of separatism, of course. This country is not that simple, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0182par0112	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0113	This country is not easy to eat, nor is it a country to divide.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0186par0114	You put it on the streets.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0115	But don't let someone try to create fear over people with this kind of language, with dry literature, with this kind of envy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0187par0116	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0188par0117	We saw Solomon in the Shah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0118	Look, we only have one problem.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0189par0119	Tell me what happened in Dolmabahçe.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0120	Our concern is to ensure unity, brotherhood, social integration in this country. Our problem is we don't have one more martyr in this country.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0190par0121	Your job is to divide, Ahmet Aydın; not to unite, but to separate.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0122	Our problem is that only one person in this country will ever bleed again.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0191par0123	Where'd you get the guns buried, then? Where did they bury the guns?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0124	Our problem is that this country's energy is not wasted, its brotherhood is to ensure social integration, and we're working on it, and we're just trying to make this problem work. We're ready to drink the hemlock if necessary. We display such a decisive attitude. What's the big deal? Why did you have to say so many things here?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0191par0125	You don't drink poison, you drink honey!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0126	Dear friends, our Home Secretary is in charge of the hard work, and he's going to try and act as he should. We say we fight terrorism to the end, we fight it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0192par0127	Is the money back yet, the money?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0128	But we negotiate with politics, we negotiate with legitimate politicians, dear friends. [[Noises in MHP rows]] In this country, for years, this problem has not been solved, as you put it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0193par0131	Your former Minister was in front of the men, so let's see what this does!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0132	This problem, as you say it, is getting bigger, it's getting bigger, we're losing our people, and these increases don't happen again, these losses don't happen again...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0193par0133	You never listen, do you? You're not talking about the one in front of Zarrab? He was the Home Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0134	From armed struggle to political struggle, democratic politics, every idea, it's not uncommon for criticism to be done here in a way that's respected, but here we are...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0194par0136	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0185par0137	Every time you divide the country, you divide the country, you betray the country. Sorry, no one pays attention to such things. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0195par0141	It was the Minister of the Interior who stood in front of Zarrab. If you remember, he was lying horizontally.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0196par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0197par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0198par0144	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz. Let's hear it first, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0197par0146	I'm Mr. Nevzat speaking...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0198par0147	I'll listen to them all, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0197par0148	Maybe he needs a mass response.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0149	I'll give you a separate answer.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0198par0150	Yes, listen to him first.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0151	He said that I was wrongfully accused, that I brought the AKP and the PKK side by side. I want to answer about him.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0198par0152	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0200par0154	Ask him, which one's the minister?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0156	Mr. AKP Group Deputy President Ahmet Bey, not much, 24 hours before the meeting in Dolmabahçe, the journalists are asking Mr. Bkent Arinc, saying: "They are speaking with the Kandil mouth, there is no way for us to come together with them. Who is in Kandil? There's a PKK, huh?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0157	We don't go side by side with Kandil.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0158	There's a PKK in Kandil. Your government member says so.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0159	We come together with politics.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0160	Well, brother, here, you don't want to accept the fact that the AKP is next to the PKK, but they have no objection when we tell the HDP that the PKK is a political spokesman. By Aristotle's logic, if HDP is the political spokesman for the PKK, what are you doing here, cooperating with HDP?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0161	Is HDP a political party or not?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0162	Yes, you said no martyrs. Who will defend the law of 40,000 martyrs? I ask, who will defend the law of 40,000 martyrs? No matter what it takes... there is no solution, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0164	Why not? Why not?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0165	Look, no matter what it takes... it can't happen.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0166	That's not the way to look at it. Why not the solution? If we want to.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0202par0167	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0168	It's up to the government to treat it with honor, dignity, honor.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0169	He's being treated with dignity.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0170	The Republic of Turkey is not a tribal state.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0171	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0203par0172	That's what you don't want to understand.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0173	That's what you haven't understood in 13 years.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0201par0174	We're close to a solution, we're close to a solution.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0175	This is where your ignorance stems from the Turkish nation's continued trouble with the Turkish state.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0204par0176	For God's sake...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0177	It'll look like a government, and the government will look like a government. He's not going to do neck cracks, bows, or eyeballs against the terrorist organization he's dealing with. So, in 2002, the PKK, which you received with zero terrorism, came and sat on you today.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0205par0178	A unilateral truce was signed then.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0179	He's old enough to come and dictate a peace treaty to you. That's because of your ignorance of this state. It's because you don't know how to run the government.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0206par0180	We run it, you run it?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0199par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0207par0183	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Baluken, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0208par0185	There's open teasing in both conversations. Considered part of the betrayal, Mr. Fair Zozani will answer.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0207par0186	Mr. Zozani will answer?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0208par0187	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0207par0188	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0209par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. A historic statement has been issued in Dolmabahçe on Saturday, marking Turkey's future, marking Turkey's future for 1,000 years, reassigning the future of the people living together in Mesopotamia, Anatolia. On one side of this statement, we, the HDP Group, are happy to have a little bit of our share in this statement. We're not talking about death, we're talking about life. We are in the effort to bring peace to this geography, instead of giving hansom speeches over funerals. To defend the opposite is to move 4 million people from their homeland. Defending the opposite is burning people in acid wells. Defending the opposite is putting a barrel around people's necks in broad daylight in the streets of the city. Defending the opposite is feeding people feces. Defending the opposite is killing children. Defending the opposite is putting bullets in these people. That's what we think. Therefore, we believe that we have signed a future of Turkey, not a document of betrayal. We believe we signed a document of Turkey's future, not a document of treason. We're not thinking of taking land from Turkey, we're thinking of raising Turkey. Yes, February 28, 2015 is the beginning date of the growing Turkey; there has been a historical explanation, and we are happy to be on the side of that historical explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0210par0195	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0211par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0210par0197	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0211par0198	Sir, I'm going to ask our orator friend, who just spoke, if he's given this answer to my words, I'm going to demand it accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0212par0199	It's all right, sir...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0210par0200	Yes, he made a general statement, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0212par0201	He didn't say anything to anyone, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0213par0202	Sir, my explanation is very clear, and I don't mean to tease anyone.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0214par0203	Sir, since he spoke after me, there are explanations for misunderstandings...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0215par0204	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz. Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0214par0207	Yes, valued lawmakers say they're trying to establish peace and brotherhood in the thousands of years of geography that just arrived here. There's one thing our friends don't understand, the Turkish nation, with Kurd, with Yörük, with Çerkek, with Laz, with all of them, and with all of them, there's already a brotherhood, there's been a brotherhood for a thousand years. There are 4,200,000 families in this country, whether his wife is Kurd or her husband is Kurd. They have children. So at his funeral, one at his wedding, these people, in sorrow, in rejoicing, in joy, they were all one. However, when the PKK began to discriminate against the ethnicity of terrorism and began to impose terrorism on it, it came to these days when it found a AKP that matched its teeth and kept 36 lower identities in its mouth in 2002. There is no peace in the shadow of PKK's weapons. Under the protection of a bloody terrorist organization like the PKK, there is no peace with their direction. That's what we're saying, no matter what it takes to impose peace on the state of the Republic of Turkey, the history of the Turkish nation. The Turkish people don't deserve this, Mr. Ahmet. Justice...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0216par0209	What's your solution, your solution?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0214par0210	The solution was found, and in 2002 the terrorist organization had been reset.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0216par0211	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0214par0212	The AKP is the one who encouraged the terrorist organization, fed and raised the terrorist organization and brought it to this day. It's AKP politics. Today, you are trying to legitimize everything AKP has asked for by the PKK. That's what we're saying, the AKP has become a political spokesman for the PKK. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0216par0215	You're making the PKK's demands there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0217par0216	Who killed the children, the children?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0218par0217	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0217par0223	Look, he's standing next to the one whose kid was dropped and killed.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0219par0224	We don't want another child killed.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0220par0225	Yes, but we don't want another child to die, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0217par0226	But if he doesn't get killed, look who's standing on the mountain with a gun in his hand.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0220par0227	It's the ones that contribute to the death of the child.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0217par0228	Then what are they doing on the mountain with a gun?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0221par0229	Congressmans, I'll make a promise to the bench, if you'll please be quiet... Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0222par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of law, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. We see the motion of the nationalist Action Party Group's motion to ask about Minister of Interior Efkan Ala for the reasons for which I will explain later, and I say we will vote for his acceptance. Members of parliament, Interior Ministry 3152 has given the Ministry of Interior a very important task. In addition, State Administration Act 5442 has given important tasks to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to its members, Law on Police Duty 2559, Law on Legislature 2803, Law on Duty and Authority. Sadly, I regret to inform you that the attitude and conduct of Interior Minister Efkan Ala (Afkan) has not been sufficient to fulfill these tasks. Mr. Secretary was the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister before he became Minister, and the public recognizes him from this period. The Undersecretary of the Prime Minister is the pinnacle of bureaucracy. While on this mission, corruption, theft and bribery operations were carried out for some government members and relatives on December 17-25, 2013. During these operations, there was talk of lip-jerking thefts. Millions of dollars and millions of euros in shoe boxes, man-size, series of money-counters and money-counting machines from the homes of their children's ministers, clocks in ten apartments in the arms of ministers, millions of dollars in clothing bags and chocolate boxes, and unsolvable euros were scattered. How an Iranian businessman, in his 20's, connected ministers with the term "amiyane," surprised people. Mr. Secretary, you were undersecretary of the Prime Minister at this time. You've interfered with all investigations as Undersecretary, you've begun to black out evidence, to destroy evidence, to divert the investigation, to give illegal orders to governors and police chiefs, to not listen to the order of the republic's prosecutors in criminal investigations. You're giving the governor illegal instructions for the detention of a journalist, no need for a court order on the governor's hesitation, break down his door, take that man. So the court order means nothing to you. In fact, you're continuing your instructions. Take the prosecutor. You say. You specifically state that you are in a meeting at the official residence, thus making you feel at whom you give the instructions. Do you realize what you've done to the judiciary, Mr. Secretary? You're instructing the head of Information Technologies to shut down the journalist's website. Upon the president's notice that there is no court order on this matter, my brother, we who make the law eat. If necessary, we'll do whatever law is being made, and we'll stop what you're doing as a crime. Don't be afraid of the prosecutor, I'm telling you the will of the party that has received 50 percent of the vote, and you say fuck the rest. Yeah, I thought Congress was making the law. So you're making the law instead of the House. Do you remember what Enver Pasha said? No law, do the law. Why did you bring the Homeland Security package? So, Mr. Secretary, you think it's enough to get 50 percent of the vote for corruption and bribery. The police go to Bilal Erdoğan's house with a warrant for search, seizure, arrest, detention. The prime minister's security team is pulling weapons on the cops who came in. Shoot the person who approaches. You give the instruction so that the court's decision cannot be carried out. As I just said, what does a court order matter to you? Then you became Minister of the Interior, and after becoming Minister, the same recklessness continued to increase. In order to prevent corruption, bribery, and theft, you destroyed the security bureaucracy to torture those who performed these operations; you removed them, you replaced them, you subjected them to the operation. In doing so, you created an enemy called parallel structure. If a parallel structure has formed within the state, as you claim, its primary responsibility is those who provide, provide, and encourage, the opportunity to create the alleged structure within the state. Mr. Secretary, you are not outside of those responsible. Could there be a parallel arrangement with the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Security Directorate? You've turned the corporations against each other, made MIT and HPD intelligence rival each other. You've done the opposite of cooperating and co-ordination between intelligence agencies. You have uploaded functions that are incompatible with their duties. As sent by Republican People's Party MPs, you have opened the door for the production of factory messages by a team within the MIT. This was done by order of the strong will at the very top, and was explained by our Party Speaker and our Vice President. Also, Prime Minister Davutoglu did not know about this. I sing the praises of the people of the MIT, who are not involved in these matters. It's a long-known fact that there are people who strip off intelligence and counter-engineering to link the CHP to the parallel structure that exists within the MIT. Not only the Republican People's Party, but the press has also written that other opposition parties have been tried to get into this scam. Today, it is said that slander and lies set forth around the Republican People's Party have been presented to the highest authority and then published in the pool media by the team in this centre, as well as by a prominent minister who is firmly committed to the illegal palace, who does not know the law, who is not at all at peace with the Constitution. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, who is this Minister? Do you, by any chance, know anything about this? Idris Naim Şahin, former interior minister, lost our 18-year-old Serap Eser as a result of being thrown on the bus by Molotovkotaki. I've been informed that the people who set fire to the bus by throwing Molotov cocktails on the bus are unfortunately intelligence personnel. They were also intelligence officers. They were not protected and tried because they were intelligence officers. Were the people responsible for the death of Serap? Who gave the mission? You do not answer their questions and leave them unanswered. It turns out that after a while, your explanations are not true, no matter what you say. You have announced that the attack on the Police Tourism Bureau in Sultanahmet was launched by the DHKP-C organization first.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0223par0243	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0222par0244	Then it turned out that this suicide attack was committed by an ISIS woman. After that, you turned into a nightingale with berries, and you didn't make any explanation. A 12-year-old boy named Nihat Kazanhan was shot in the head and died in January 14, 2015 in Cizre district of Şırnak province. In this regard, the police today did not use weapons, nor did they use any gas, so you said there was an open provocation. Mr. Davutoglu probably received information from you that it is not in any way possible that our police officers were killed by bullets. There was no actual intervention or use of gas. He expressed an opinion. But it turned out that it wasn't like that. Mr. Secretary, you have stated that you can't edit by referring to the existing Constitution. You also stated in the General Assembly that you stand by your word. Do you know where a Minister of the Interior will lead Turkey if he states that he does not have to obey the Constitution and the laws? Did you follow the example of the actual suspension of the Constitution by the President, who swore on his honor and honor that he would be neutral, Mr. Secretary, who was obliged to observe the implementation of the Constitution? You're always talking about public order, but you're disrupting public order. Didn't you cause members of a terrorist organization to check their identities on the roads, dig ditchs in cities, destroy freedom of travel, destroy state domination in the southeast? Didn't you cause our country to be remembered for its radical terrorist organizations? Didn't you set the ground for ISIS's fleet with ISIS cells all over the country? Mr. Secretary, the arrangements you've made and the bills you've referred to the House are not public-ordering, but rather corrupting public order. Such are the provisions of the bill, which continues its talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and is widely known as the internal security package. With this bill, the latest fragments of democracy already destroyed by the AKP government are also wanted to be destroyed. Is it time to get off the democracy tram, as someone said? People are very curious about that. With this bill, basic rights and freedoms are further restricted, becoming virtually unusable. But if you shut down all democratic roads, block the rights-seeking pathways, eliminate all democratic channels, you legitimize the streets and squares. You have a square phobia. As I've said before, once again, in no democratic country, power hasn't changed in the squares, but authoritarian, despotic and fascist governments have lost power in the squares. I suggest you remember that. The way to maintain peace, peace and public order is to run democracy by all institutions and rules, removing all obstacles to democracy. With this bill, you are also launching a liquidation movement in the police force. You want to open the way for a future liquidation in the General Command of the Gendarme and the Coast Guard Command. At this rate, domestic security units will be politicized and Her Majesty's security units will be established. In addition, with this bill, the governors are granted judicial authority. It opens the way for our citizens to be detained and deprived of their freedoms by law enforcement officers that the governors have appointed. Determination of the forces of democracy is being destroyed. Executive and judicial duties are mixed up. A state of chaos is being created. Without a judge's decision or a supervisor's decision, you're allowing police to prevent, search, conduct a single verbal order to conduct a search of the upper, property and vehicle. The state's attorney's authority is handed over to governors, governors' powers to the branch. Republican prosecutors with the monopoly to conduct criminal investigations are disabled in certain cases. The governors are given the authority to search for martial law and emergency practices. In the event of this bill's legalisation, the right to a meeting and demonstration march, which has already been very difficult by the AKP government, will be completely unusable. The right to a meeting and demonstration march is to be transformed into a terrorist activity and to be criminalized. Even at peaceful gatherings and demonstrations, the law is at stake. I'm taking people away or taking them into protective custody. He'll be able to process you. Police use of weapons has been facilitated, citizens' right of life threatened. Even if the slingshot and the iron marble are not used in any cases, the way is opened for them to be considered as weapons. The period is removed from 48 hours to 72 hours before communication is heard without a judge's decision. Cases related to the murder of young people are being circulated and blackened. Our citizens are concerned that the police who have been tried in these cases for the change are not being punished, that they are being asked to be punished. The government's main objective is to prevent peaceful demonstrations by citizens against the government's oppressive, illegal, authoritarian practices, to silence the opposition, to suppress society, to destroy social opposition, and to establish an authoritarian, despotic and fascist government. The concrete example of this is what we see in Gaziantep. You're using the parallel structure as an excuse for liquidation in the police force. In the process of liquidating, the concept of witch hunting is carried out, driver's license, integrity and experience, the principle of equality is ignored, the principle of equality is not respected, the hierarchy is reversed, students are thrown out of the door shortly before graduation. My dear friends, you know what Recep Tayyip Erdogan said about the parallel structure. We will ask them, "Have you come to your senses?" And you say, again, Recep Tayyip Erdogan says that they're standing behind ▪CHP and MHP Pennsylvania. When the expiration dates have passed, they will stab them in the back. We, the People's Party of the Republic, do not stand behind anyone, but we ask: Are you, as you call it, past your expiration date, my dear friends? Didn't you send Deputy Prime Minister Arinc to Pennsylvania to receive orders and instructions from Fethullah Gulen? Didn't Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ sing his praises? (HPP clapping in rows) Did the people of the parallel structures, you call them, come to them by force? Couldn't the AKP government put them in those positions? Weren't you then the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister? Didn't you give them a eulogy? They created epics. Didn't you say? And you didn't tell them all to look the public in the eye? So you didn't cause people to leave their future and their next mission? Didn't you decide against the military? So why didn't you apply the national security committee's decision on the laughing movement in 2004? The National Security Council made such a decision, but we didn't. Didn't you say? Mr. Erdoğan, people are being convicted for preparing to write a book about the Pennsylvania gang. He says, "Well, when journalist Ahmet Şık goes to prison for this reason, sometimes books are like bombs." Didn't you say? Why are you doing the liquidation now? It's the December 17th-25th operations. Look, what does Ariç say? It says: "We will not forgive those who betray the AKP's power, which has given them all the means. " The problem is not parallel construction within the state, but the discovery of AKP power, especially the government's fault. With this bill, you are politicizing the General Command of the Gendarmes and the Coast Guard Command. That's how you open the way for the politicisation of the Turkish Armed Forces. You all know what the politicalisation of the Turkish Armed Forces has caused in history, what catastrophes have caused. How did we get rid of all the Balkans? We lost the Balkan War (Balkan) because of the politicalisation of the army, and now, you're opening the way for it. We say to you, "Come and give it up." I ask all of you, if such a hierarchical structure could happen, such an institutional culture, I salute all of you, in the appointment of the commanders of the district and district of the police, in the appointment of non-Generals, in their dismissals, in their punishments, in their replacements.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit04spe0224par0259	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0224par0001	Congressmans, we are opening the Fifth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Agreement (11/45) on Minister of Interior Efkan Ala will be on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to Oğuz Khan Koksal. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0225par0007	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group in a meeting of Minister of Interior Efkan Ala in accordance with Article 99 of the Constitution. I salute you. As a former governor of Adana, this is where I express my regret over the passing of Yasar Kemal, the face of our literature, and ask for God's mercy. Mr. President, before we get into the matter of the high-value lawmakers, I'd like to talk about our security approach as an AK PARTI. As EC PARTY governments, starting in 2002, we continue to work fully for a civilian, pluralist and democratic Turkey. Knowing that we have all created new Turkey together with our differences, with our trust and faith in our people, we have adopted an understanding that from the very first day, put the nation at the center of politics. Our politics is a nation-oriented political concept. We give equal value and importance to all our citizens. We embrace and embrace all our citizens regardless of their origins or where they live. Surely our common history, our culture, our civilization, and our vision of the future are among the most important things that hold our nation together. People are rich and powerful with all the different colors and sounds they have in them. There are significant changes in security services, one of the main public services, both quantity and quality. As the EC PARTI ruling, a radical paradigm change has been made in the understanding of security policies and has been adopted as a security approach to freedom. Today, as a society, we need to be more alert than ever, to be sensitive to provocations, to be patient, to be united and united. We know very well that our nation's spirit of unity and unity is the greatest force against terrorist organizations. The Republic of Turkey is a great and powerful state. Our fight against the peace of our country and its undistributable integrity will continue until the end, no one will doubt it. The process of democratisation represents a change of mentality in terms of the state. In addition to changes in existing laws, more freer, more democratic, more progressive policies have begun to be implemented, along with the revolution of the mentality of those who enforce these laws. In this framework, the security bureaucracy is the most important face of the paradigm change in Turkey. Because in the region, the abstract existence of the state is consolidating with public officials. Thus, the rights or wrongs of public officials mean the response to public perception of state. Especially in places where institutions like our security forces enter the field of duty, the public approach with the public is an important example of state-pattern intimacy, which has been demonstrated by abandoning the wrongs of the past. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, we have always shown our nation's fight against terrorism is not only resolved by the method of fighting weapons, its rejection and denial policies do not come to a point in 90 years, and that these policies are particularly removed from circulation during the AK PARTI rule period, and that we keep it pure in addition to the understanding of solution-oriented politics, in accordance with the public's demands. From the first day we came to power, we stated that security and freedom are not opposite concepts, that without one, the other will not make sense. We also know that the safest and most peaceful countries are the countries that provide the best rights and freedoms for their citizens. In our country, the sensitivity for public order is protected and is not compromised, and it is clear that violence has been abandoned and political life in democratic conditions, including the final perspective of the solution process, disarmament. AS AK PARTI ruling, we conduct the solution process within our own action plans. The distance we take in this regard is seen by everyone. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law and has national and international rules. The rules of law, as a whole of the rules that govern our daily, social, economic and political lives, contain provisions that regulate crime and the fight against the criminal. The rule of law dictates the conditions for security forces to observe when dealing with terrorism and crime in general. This is also an important obstacle to the joy and sentiment of security forces. These rules are also a guarantee for the security forces themselves. In every case, leaving our security forces in the lurch and forcing them to use unproportionate force is nothing more than a sneaky game of terrorist organization. I'd like to stress to you that the security forces are being severely avoided here by going outside the law and making it look like they're fighting a public, not a terrorist organization. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the fight against terrorism has never been easy in democratic societies and anywhere. Public confidence is at the top of the most important elements in the fight against terrorism. Security forces must be trusted by the entire community, but especially by our citizens living in the terror zone. Any movement that is unemotional in the fight against terrorism, which prevails over reason, has a quality that produces healthy results. Protecting basic rights and freedoms and fighting terrorism is the most important measure at this point. The multidimensional approach in the fight against terrorism also obliges the implementation of policies, strategy and programmes, including security-dimensional policies, social, economic investments and the whole of democratisation. In this recent period, Turkey has been primarily determined to correct the problems and learn from the mistakes of the past, effective coordination of relevant actors under civilian initiative, and to take steps towards resolution. Turkey has been fighting terrorism that has threatened our democracy for nearly 30 years, causing thousands of lives and billions of financial losses. AS AC PARTI ruling, we have continued and persevered in this struggle without compromise from the principles of democracy and law. In 2009, we launched the process of national unity and brotherhood to solve the terror problem the democratic way. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's national union and brotherhood process, which began with Diyarbakır speech in 2005, should not cry. It is an identical and public process. In the process, the sacrifices of our government, our Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Mr. Efkan Ala, are also admirable. The work, democratisation, public perception, socialisation of the vision of solutions by the hands of state institutions and by the government's political vision and will has been effective at the point of persuasion and participation. This process has enabled our citizens to increase their trust in the state, to eliminate the social ground abused by terrorism, to strengthen society's peace and brotherhood by the positive psychological environment of the steps of democratisation. For years, the solution perspective of the problem that has become gangrene has opened up. Despite all sabotage attempts and obstructions, our government has begun the process of meeting with Mr. President on February 15, 2013, by continuing decisively the steps of democratisation and the process of resolving. The solution process is the process of removing violence and the weapon, bringing word, thought, and politics into play. This process aims to ensure that terror ends, violence ends, anyone who has a say in the matter can express their thoughts and be free to do politics. The solution process is a domestic and national process. This process was met with concrete response on March 21, 2013, and the government continued the process with different mechanisms. In order to continue the solution process, Mr. Efkan Ala, our Home Secretary, has made a great effort to maintain peace and trust in the region, to love one another, and to work for the brotherhood.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0226par0019	Is that why they're digging a ditch?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0225par0020	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, on July 16, 2014, the Law for the Ending of Terror and Enhancing Social Integration, which regulates the national procedures and fundamentals of the resolution process, took effect. For the purpose of implementing the tasks given to the government through this law, the resolution process board and interagency monitoring and co-ordination institutions have been established, establishing procedures and guidelines for the work and measures to be taken. The solution process is the process of removing violence and the weapon, bringing word, thought, and politics into play. In this process, terrorism is intended to end violence, to express the thoughts of anyone who has a say in the matter, and to be able to do politics freely. The process of solutions and security is not the alternative. We view security, rights and freedoms of citizens as a public service needed to provide a comfortable environment where they can use them without fear, without fear, without fear. In the final situation, many positive explanations have been made, including dropping weapons, the solution process is now the property of the nation, the solution process is a national process, a domestic process, a process owned by all citizens of this country. In the coming days, we have continued to believe that further steps will be taken on the solution process. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our security forces have successfully waged a war against all criminal organizations that are disrupting public order, endangering human life and health, damaging political, economic and social order, damaging the social structure deeply and causing unfair competition, disrupting society's peace. As we carry out this struggle, our security forces have had great success with crime and event lighting, and they also use the most advanced technologies in the field. In recent years, it has also been a great success in illumination of crimes. Our most important goal in fighting crime and crime is to make sure that the victim is unharmed and without provocation, and to work with self - sacrifice. Our Ministry of Interior, across the country, the governor and the governor, are working 24 hours a day and night to ensure the peace and security of our people in their districts and districts. In this scope, the Ministry of Interior has been considered to be part of the ministry's basic duties in Article 2 of the Law on the Agency and its duties, in order to maintain its undivided integrity, internal security and security of the country, public order, general morality, and rights and freedoms written in the Constitution. These duties are carried out by the Ministry of Interior, the governor of the province in the country, and by the governors of the districts. Of course, these duties to maintain public order are also carried out through the Security Directorate, the General Command of the Gendarme and the Coast Guard Command. It must not be forgotten that the provision of public order is indispensable for our citizens to use their basic rights and freedoms in a free and comfortable environment. Violence that threatens the safety of our citizens' lives and property and suppresses rights and freedoms has never been allowed or will not be allowed. Our security forces do not distinguish the citizens who attend every meeting or demonstration, but only those who are involved in the events and do what they have to do. Our work is also identified without disturbing other citizens and is determined by the judicial authorities. In particular, it is sought to remove and lead to despair by harming the people of the region who do not approve of these events. In this context, our Home Secretary, Mr. Efkan Ala, has expressed that it is the most important thing to maintain public order in all his speeches and statements, and has invited officials to be sensitive about it. However, the maximum effort has been made to ensure that innocent people will not be harmed by public order. In this context, it is not right to state that the Minister has failed to carry out his duties, but it is an unjust and unsubstantiated claim. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers claim that the terrorist organization has taken over state-owned functions in the eastern and southeast provinces, which are completely baseless and non-consolidated. There's no area the state's security forces can't enter.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0227par0025	What do you mean, no? Why did you cancel the examinations in Dicle? Shame!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0225par0026	The state is completely in control of events, and when it comes to it, it's done.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0227par0027	Is that why you canceled your college exam? You can't take a university exam in Dicle. Too bad, too bad! You've been governor of this country!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0225par0028	As a matter of fact, during 2014, 7,373 people were arrested during the events and operations against terrorism, and 1.555 have also been arrested. Every warning issued by our Home Secretary since his arrival has been to protect public order. At the final meeting of governors, both our Minister and the Prime Minister are highlighting the most important issue of public order. The Vandalism that would harm this will never be tolerated. ( Furthermore, it will be lovingly approached by the citizens.) The expression proves once again that this claim is false. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as you know, in the police department, are being appointed according to the terms of the appointment and relocation regulations. Every year, regular appointments are made for people who return from the song and go to the song in May and June. Other appointments are made, such as spouse status, health, divorce, life safety, and education. In addition, employees who have been investigated or involved in the crime may be subject to appointment at any time of the year by inspector or governor's proposal. In 2011, 63,000 people were appointed in 2012, 61,000 in 2013, 58,000 in 2013, and 61,000 in 2014. Compared to these numbers, it is seen that there is no intentional appointment, and the service is made out of necessity to be conducted without fail between the western and eastern provinces, and it must be known that there is no law enforcement, no law and no legal instruction. However, there will surely be investigations of public officials who abuse their duties, make irregular wiretaps, follow the personal lives of high-ranking public officials, politicians, businessmen, religious leaders, listen to their calls, listen to their calls, take orders from parallel debris rather than from the institution they belong to, and they have also been initiated. Other than that, it is clear that those who are being investigated, those who are being punished, will be punished, of course, among 270,000 employees. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are seen to have a quality that is reflected in the press, which is not supported by actual evidence, which has a sense of hearing from ear to ear. Minister of Interior Efkan Ala is a meticulous, determined, strict, professional, planned, and cognitive friend of ours in working life. It's obviously unfair to the Minister to give him a motion to ask for the Minister without any evidence or anything else.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0228par0034	That's less than enough!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0229par0035	After June 7th, you will answer in front of the Turkish judges.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0225par0036	With such feelings and thoughts, I would like to say that we will vote as the EC PARTY Group to bring up the motion of the National Movement Party's motion on Mr Efkan Ala, with respect to the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0230par0038	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Minister of Interior Efkan Ala. Here you go, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0231par0042	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you. Honourable lawmakers, heir to a great state, and officers of a great state. Therefore, Turkey's problems and opportunities and threats are great.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0232par0044	How is it a great state that can't protect its death, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0231par0045	The main reason for success in risks and threats is to take the political initiative that our nation accepts, the political initiative that our nation can accept, and create policies that will meet the needs of our nation, and apply those policies to our nation's approval and after we have their approval. Turkey can't act like a small state. Turkey cannot be the arena of simple accounts. Because...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0232par0047	Leave it alone!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0233par0048	Just hear me out!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0234par0049	Listen!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0232par0050	Did you abandon Solomon Shah Temple for him?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0051	Why are you yelling, Congressman? I'm talking without saying a word.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0232par0053	Speak the truth! You're on the stand, speak the truth!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0236par0054	You want us to shut up? You're gonna send the police? What if we yell?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0055	Now, of course, it's possible to simplify the matter and do a very superficial analysis of it with police reports, officer, inspector's reports, and make some evaluations, but we don't have the luxury of considering the value of this nation's trust to us at such a low level. It may comfort our mind, it may be useful for our mental comfort, but I would like to present to you some evaluations of a higher sense of politics so as not to be unfair to people who think about the future of their own people, who think about the future of their own people, who think about the future of their children in their homes, who think about the future of their own nation.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0236par0056	Everyone's a mess except you! You do the high-politics, everybody! They're all fucking idiots here! High politics is your business!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0057	Our esteemed MPs, of course, are Turkey's most important win, this Parliament. Even if our friends who served in this Parliament and in this Parliament really did not do anything -- this sentence cannot be made -- because this Parliament is here, because it is open and working, it has prevented all the negatives in this geography from coming in here and preventing it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0236par0059	You're giving it away without having to.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0060	When we look at other countries, countries next to us, we see more natural resources, and we see that wherever you dig, there's oil gushing out, but unfortunately, they're on the verge of disaster and disaster. We don't have any underground oil...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0237par0061	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0062	...our natural resources are not very rich, but we have political stability, and that's what's causing that political stability.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0238par0064	Of course, make the citizen poor, do the dirty, then political stability!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0065	So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to set up a late term, a sentence that was used here -- sometimes when I sat down -- as I had instructed you to do. I'll tell you this: I receive instructions from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it is my honor. No one can instruct this Parliament, this Parliament Speaker and its president.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0239par0066	I got it. He says, "I got it." He says, "I got it." I took the faithful Yakut. He says, "It's in the reports."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0067	In the face of what is to come, we stand up to those who have attempted a coup before.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0239par0069	Are you listening? Since you're being instructed... I'll take the faithful Yakut. There's a report here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0070	My dear friends, I'll tell you one other thing, which is that whatever instrument the coup is made with, whatever the tank is made with, it's built on, it's made up, the cover is ripped off.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0239par0072	Why don't you do that to terror? Tell me how to fight terrorism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0073	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0239par0074	Tell me! How do you fight terrorism? Let's see you tear it up!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0075	...Turkey has a very important political tradition. People in Turkey...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0240par0077	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0239par0078	Tell us how to fight terrorism. He tells a good story, and he tells a story about the war on terror.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0079	It is written in the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, where the nation will be in power in Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0241par0081	That was before.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0082	But people have always waited for this, and it's been an opportunity, and it's been a government, and when it's going to be full power, it's been tried to stop this nation from being power by indirect and direct blows, like 1960, 1970, 1980, February 28 and April 27th.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0242par0083	You're begging the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0243par0084	Don't give me that shit! Pass them, pass them.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0085	What was replaced? A closed system has been replaced.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0244par0086	Oh, for God's sake, look at what you've done in the House. Look at the blow you did in the House.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0087	What do you mean? The closed system has a status quo, and this status quo has allies within the system.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0244par0088	What's the difference between you and the 12th of September generals, huh? What is the difference between Canaan and the Universe?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0089	These allies have collaborated with the status quo, and they've done it for the nation from time to time, but they'll never succeed again.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0244par0090	Look at the law you made. Look at the law you're defending, the law. Look at the fascist law you're defending.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0091	In this closed system, most actors feed on the problem...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0244par0092	You're building a police state in this country, a police state. You're here on a special mission, you're here on a special mission.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0235par0093	So they feed on the problem, and this closed system feeds on the enemy, even if there are no enemies.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0245par0094	Parallel, parallel!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0246par0095	Just like you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0247par0096	You know damn well!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0248par0097	Now, the banning of the headscarf of the pious was a result of this enemy-producing reflex.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0246par0098	You're describing yourself, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0249par0099	That's right, you did it to create enemies.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0248par0100	I mean, there's nothing, there's no problem, we need enemies, but the system, the status quo, to keep it going.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0250par0101	Okay, here's what you need.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0248par0102	He has forbidden his headscarf so he can identify it as an enemy and keep it on its feet by consuming it. Like this, no mind can explain, no conscience can explain...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0250par0103	Ergenekon, it's parallel.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0251par0104	What are you doing with the headscarf?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0250par0105	Yeah, get a hold of yourself, forget it. Look at this fascist law.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0106	After the coup in 1980, I will now return to the 1990s, where Turkey has brought... a mind that forbids people to say hello to its mother in Kurdish.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0253par0107	They're bastards, motherfucker! Whoever banned him is an asshole.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0254par0108	Answer the charges against you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0109	And dear friends, then those who did these irrational, unconscionable jobs, they pushed people out there to create enemies. Diyarbakır Prison could not contribute to the solution if it did not know the persecution of the prison. Those who cannot condemn banning people's mother tongue cannot contribute to the resolution of this issue here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0255par0110	Respectfully, don't punch the bench.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0111	When I was banned from the names of the Turks in Bulgaria, when people's language was banned in Bulgaria...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0256par0112	Tell the PKK how you submitted public order.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0113	I was a student of knowledge, and I was walking in front of that Sarachhane, and I'd walk again. I was protesting because my tongue was banned.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0257par0115	Don't bullshit me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0116	Whatever reaction I make when my tongue is banned, my brother -- those Kurds are my brothers -- I make the same reaction when their language is banned.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0258par0118	Demagoji, don't! Get to the point, get to the question.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0119	Demagoji, don't! Who dug those trenches? Tell me who's asking your police for ID, who's asking your police for ID? Tell me who's sending instructions to your creamer.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0120	Gentlemen, we're talking about something important, something very important. We are the heirs of the State of Aliyye-i Osmaniyya.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0121	Say it, say it! Tell me who's asking your police for ID.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0122	We are the heirs of the State of Aliyye-i Osmaniyya, we can't think small.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0260par0124	Please, let's just calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0125	They're asking you for I.D.'s on the international road! What kind of government are you? How are you the Home Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0126	We may have little thinkers, and we won't say anything to them...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0127	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0128	But we can't go down there and think small, we have to think big.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0129	Of course, little, little... the state's gone, and you're still saying it's small!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0130	I'm not telling you guys anything. Why are you yelling, man?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0131	I'm asking you, who's asking your police for ID? Who's asking for ID, then?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0132	Now, dear friends, look, we may have problems, we may have big problems, but we need to think big and get the support of our nation behind us and then not create bigger problems...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0133	Then you sell people, get backup first.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0134	...we have to produce solutions. Why? Look, I was in that area again in the 1990s. In the 1990s, friends were taken to villages -- in the words of the state and in our names -- to the embargo -- with food restrictions of the governments at the time; 250 grams of tea, 100 grams of sugar, one grain of bread, between cities and cities.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0135	Weren't you the governor?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0136	No, I wasn't. I was a deputy governor.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0137	Weren't you my mother-in-law? You didn't have the power?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0138	Only the convoy could travel between the provinces. The districts were completely blocked.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0259par0139	There's also social welfare in the sub-committee. Cry cry cry cry cry cry cry
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0141	My dear brothers, at that time millions of people, hundreds of thousands of people were driven from their villages, from their places, from their places.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0261par0142	You're the one who did it!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0144	Look, I'll be honest, it's a historic day. Thank you for giving you the opportunity to say that, too, to your client.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0262par0145	Tell me what you did in Batman!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0146	It's our problem, let's not take questions from people.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0262par0148	He's got three months to give, three to go. He'll take you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0149	Look at our votes back home.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0263par0150	Mr. Secretary, are you here on the people's will that you're talking to me once?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0151	Now, there are 12 major cities, where the problem happens most, you're looking at the votes of those who talk about it the most, 1%. Well, then people have already given us the gene. For that reason, I thank you for this question, for having the opportunity to share it with our nation and with our House, to present it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0263par0153	People didn't bring you here, people!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0154	Look, the villages have been evacuated, hundreds of thousands of people, their families have been taken from their villages without being told where to go. They didn't do this, there was no political initiative to do this, politics was a mess. So you have to appreciate political initiative, political stability, and keep it above your head.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0264par0156	Tell me your responsibility, why tell me 20 years ago? Answer his claims.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0157	I salute this House, for ten years, for thirteen years it has kept politics straight against any kind of attack. (EC PARTY Applause) Because what alternative goodness politics is and what political stability happens to us when it doesn't happen in its place, this nation has lived very well. In the 90s, friends had a certain amount of...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0264par0158	Come to 2014, come to 2013, come to 2012!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0159	...if people could take some political initiative and make politics, if they could do 10 percent of what we did today around cities while they migrated from their villages, 650,000...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0265par0160	What's the matter, they left a gun?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0161	If we could do 10 percent, we'd take those kids to school. They wouldn't be perpering around cities, there wouldn't be so many migrations. There, in the village, if you can't protect it, put it around the city, brother, around the city.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0265par0163	So why is he migrating now?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0164	We could come to Diyarbekir and build houses like the Mezra, and we could build houses like the Mezra, and those people would get proper education there, and now we wouldn't have to deal with such a huge, huge problem, we'd just keep going. Now, let's not forget the 90s, the 2000s: look, Turkey has solved all sorts of issues in the 2000s, and since 2002, the removal of the OHAL has provided this with the removal of obstacles to all those cultural rights...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0266par0166	You're authorizing a state of emergency!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0167	Now, some of our friends may not be able to relate properly to democracy and terrorism. He's, uh...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0267par0168	Between what and what?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0169	Democracy reduces support for terrorism. That's the experience of every country in the world fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0267par0170	Is that why you're bringing in the fascist minister? No way!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0171	It reduces support for terrorism, increases public confidence in the system, the public's trust in justice. So, it gives you a whole solution to the problem. Because basic rights and freedoms are human... Gentlemen, people take a lot of trouble for basic rights and freedom. That's why we must stand together against interference, against political intervention. These are the foundations, or every other thing you put in there is 0, and you put in one, and you put in two.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0268par0173	You're doing this with a Homeland Security package?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0174	In that sense, now, we're here, in the 2000s, trying to get the economy to the best of us. We've survived how many coups and coup attempts, we know best.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0269par0175	Now Babacan makes a coup, Virtue Chief and Babacan.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0176	We arrived, after the 2010 referendum, we went to the public, and the public secured politics with a referendum, and then we...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0269par0177	Tomorrow you'll do the coup.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0270par0178	What happened? The CDC didn't work for you, you changed it back.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0179	Turkey has two basic problems since its establishment. First, the removal of obstacles to freedom of religion and conscience. We tore up all the details of February 28th, his law, his legislation, his Anti-Irtica Document, and threw it away, and covered the cover. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] Secondly, look, nothing happened, everybody's here. You know, that future, that future.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0271par0182	Yeah, yeah, you're bringing a fascist package for him.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0272par0183	Don't play politics, answer the questions you've been asked!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0184	And now, at that time, when that policy guaranteed itself and took initiative, that ethnic identity took immediate initiative in the Kurdish issue. The start of our democratic expansion process is 2009. Friends, after that, the National Union and Brotherhood Project, then the process of resolution, but all of them, we're witnesses, were tried to be interrupted by incredible provocations.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0273par0185	You've been here six years, the process has been surrendered, delivered to the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0186	In one, Oslo talks were sabotaged from within the government's own unit and leaked out.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0274par0187	You said he was an interviewing bastard.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0188	One of them had a Habur provocation. In one case, the MIT was subpoenaed for running the business, which was a February 7 coup. One of them -- time is short, so I'm sorry I'm going so fast -- on May 8th, dear friends, the terrorist group said: I'm going out.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0274par0189	They'll judge you, you'll be judged.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0275par0190	Why don't you tell me about the colleges?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0191	Talks were held, she decided to go out on May 8th, and on May 28th, travel events began in this country and a major provocation.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0276par0192	Yeah, tell me about Dolmabahçe, Dolmabahçe, Kabataş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0193	After that, when he was provoked, he was interrupted again.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0276par0194	Tell me about the Kabadash, Kabataş, how did it happen?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0195	This time we got it back together: December 17th-25th coup attempt. Then he recovered again, dear friends, and this time the events of October 6th and 7th.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0276par0196	Tell me about the Bluto, where are the perpetrators?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0197	Gentlemen, I'm a candidate for the next term, hopefully, God will give us the opportunity, and if our nation says yes, and our nation approves, I'll have the honor of joining you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0276par0199	Why are you coming here?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0200	This, of course, is Parliament, where there will be various opinions, whichever the nation approves will be put into practice.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0276par0201	Why did you come here without being chosen?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0202	So let's do this: in these basic problems -- for God's sake, I'm asking -- there may be different policies, there may be separate assessments, but again -- without beating each other up, without putting anyone back, without forgetting that 78 million is a state -- I mean, the people who get paid from treasure are not just the government, and the people who pay taxes to the treasure are the state, they're a little bit more than the state.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0277par0204	Do you know what law is, Home Secretary? Do you know what law is?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0205	So, first, see if you can get organized out there, see if you can get organized in that area, please.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0278par0206	Mind your own business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0207	Let everyone see how I can share it with more people in that area, what's wrong with it, what's wrong with it, and how I can share it with them.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0279par0208	Your cop can't get in, you're talking about the agency. You can't go there yourself!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0209	Otherwise, it's very important here, but it's very difficult to find a cure for people's problems with just hall politics. That's why... I'm not saying there's someone here who's doing it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0280par0210	That's what you do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0211	Look, I'll point out, but if we don't walk through general principles towards Turkey's general goals, it'll make things very big, and if we simplify very big issues, we won't just be hurting ourselves, we'll be wasting the country, we'll be wasting the nation, because the Turkish Assembly isn't any institution from any of the institutions.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0281par0212	Don't lecture me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0213	Again, our friends tell me that the Constitution says, "Yes, we swear, we sleep...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0282par0214	Mr. Secretary, stop lecturing!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0215	...but there's no reason why we can't say that this Constitution is a bad constitution, even though we don't.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0283par0216	The President doesn't respect his vows, brother!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0217	It's a constitution, a constitution of coups, a bad constitution, not a proper constitution. For him, the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0284par0218	You'll fit right in! You're gonna fit in, then you're gonna make a new one.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0219	Look, I'm going to say one last thing: the Constitution says, "The kingdom belongs to the people."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0284par0220	You will all obey the existing Constitution!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0221	This sovereignty is used by the constitutional institutions of the state.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0285par0222	Thanks to that Constitution, you became Minister.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0252par0223	Do you agree with that, for God's sake? The nation uses this sovereignty by hand of lawmakers and uses it through a referendum. No constitutional institution has the authority to use national sovereignty, I don't know. What's wrong with that? This Constitution, for him, must be changed and changed immediately. It is our duty to remove the people's will and to deliver it to the people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0286par0226	Thank you, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0287par0227	Are you representing your will, Mr. Secretary? Everyone, who are you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0286par0229	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0232	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has taken the oath of honor and honor to stand on this stand and remain loyal to the Constitution. Today, he has confessed to co-operating with the PKK terror organization to ratify and defect the Constitution, stating that he will not recognise this Constitution. The bottom line of our gene motion is that, members of parliament, in the east and southeast, we have given a gene for the creation of the PKK-KCK parallel state structure, establishing courts, building so-called law enforcement units, collecting taxes, distribution of public tenders, distribution of social benefits. But Mr. Secretary has admitted that all of this is part of the solution by not expressing anything about them. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0289par0234	Woe to you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0235	In this case, there is a minister who legitimizes the TK parallel state with the PKK.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0290par0236	He's his partner.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0237	So instead of responding to these allegations, rather than responding to the 17-25 December process, rather than answering the investigation process, sir, to cover up the allegations about them, let's think big. In this regard, today he has admitted that he accepts this factual situation in the east and southeastern states as a reciprocal, and that he has committed to fulfilling these commitments with the PKK agreement they signed with Dolmabahçe. There's no such thing as being Turkey's Home Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0291par0239	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0292par0240	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0241	The PKK is setting up a trial, and you're okay with that. The PKK collects taxes, you didn't say anything. The PKK is kidnapping...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0292par0243	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0293par0244	You're not in style? Siirt's part of the country. You get a nomination from Siirt, get a 0.8 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0245	Is your heart enough? Say, if thou hast the heart, and thou hast the heart, answer them, and tell no tales.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0292par0246	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0288par0247	You gave your will to the PKK.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0292par0248	Thank you. So we've completed our discussion on whether or not the motion to ask for a full-blown motion on Minister of the Interior, Efkan Ala, will be taken into consideration. I will submit this matter to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0294par0255	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0292par0256	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Ayyadın, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Clean, Mr. Topbaş, Mr. Topbaş, Mr. Düçük, Mr. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0295par0260	You are an instructed minister from the palace!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0296par0261	It's a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0295par0262	Come on, brother, you're not ashamed to sign an agreement with the PKK, but you're telling us that you do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0297par0263	Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0295par0264	If you're looking for shame, look at Dolmabahçe! If you're looking for shame, look at the palace! How can you justify it without being embarrassed or bored?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0297par0265	No shame on you! Because you're not ashamed!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0298par0266	What's going on with you?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0297par0267	Get out of here! Shame is on those who are ashamed, and no shame is on you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0299par0268	Your Van MP explained how it was gathered as a state! The man who doesn't respond to these things, gets up here and invades the seat of the House, the man who's been appointed from the outside.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0300par0269	Mr. Secretary, talk about your nephew, the one you took to Artvin Governor's office, your nephew! Talk about your nephew, the chief of staff! Talk about the nephew you took off the street, your nephew!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0299par0270	He took that, too?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0300par0271	Who is Peace Demirhan, Minister? Who is Barış Demirhan, the nephew you took to the governor of Artvin, the chief of staff?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0299par0272	Oh, yeah? She's his niece?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0300par0273	Mr. Secretary, who is Barış Demirhan? Tell the governor of Artvin about your nephew, who you made chief of staff!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0301par0274	Is there such a thing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0302par0275	There's no answer!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0303par0276	High politics!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0304par0277	No, no, no!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0305par0278	Why did you take it out of the open, at least tell me about it, Peace Demirhan? Don't look over there, look at me! Mr. Secretary, tell the Governor of Artvin about your nephew, the chief of staff!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0304par0279	Yeah, that's not true! That's a lie!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0306par0280	He can't, let him tell Reza how he lay before Reza!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0305par0281	I have all his records!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0306par0282	Tell me, how did you end up with Reza?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0305par0283	Tell us about Peace Demirhan, your nephew, who you made chief of chief of staff in the governorship of Artvin! Look this way! Look, I'm telling you straight, Barýþ Demirhan. Name's clear. He has a nephew from the village of Ogdar, I know all of them. You hide that you're from Artvin, people think you're from Erzurum! Mr. Secretary, people think you're Erzurum, tell them you're from Ogdar. Why don't you tell me how you made your nephew Chief of Staff to Artvin Governor? Why don't you look?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0306par0285	He can't look, he can't look, he's interested in Reza! He's the rescue attendant!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit05spe0307par0287	There's enough for a meeting. All those who have agreed to the motion to be brought up... those who do not accept... are not accepted. [[A round of applause from the AK PARTY lines, from the MHP rows to the sound of "Bravo!"]] I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's proposal for amendments to the Law of Population Services Act, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's proposal for amendments in the Law and the Law of Law and the Law of Law and the Law and the Law shall be made by Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Proposal to the Amendment in the Law; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's proposal for changes in the Law of Humanity Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Law; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Law on Al-Secondition of Laws and the Constitutional Law; We shall propose an amendment to the Law on Humanity Law; We shall make an amendment to Human Rights Act on Humanity Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Committee on Human Rights Law; We shall make an amendment to Human Rights Act on Human Rights Law; We shall make an amendment to the Law on the Laws Act on Humanity of Humanity Act on Humanity of Humanity; We shall also make an amendments Office on Humanity and the Law on Human Law. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 33 was adopted in the second chapter of the 65 (65) Union of 26/2/2015 of the bill, which was considered the main law.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0025	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0026	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0029	Mr. President, I'm sure you've followed the House General Assembly outside for two weeks. There were some demands expressed by three political parties about the Deputy Speaker of the two Parliaments who did not exercise neutral governance. These were demands that directly affect the talks of the proposed bill. In particular, in most of the sessions held in the first two days, we had found that the General Assembly did not operate the Civil Code, and that the materials were adopted in violation of the Civil Code. In accordance with these findings, we have moved our objections to the Parliamentary Presidency and to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who conducts the session, according to Article 13 of the Civil Code. The 13th article of the Civil Code states that if miscommunication is discovered after the merger, the Speaker of Parliament will gather the Court and decide the way to follow. If the president finds it necessary to carry out his duties, he may receive the diva's opinion. For two weeks, we said that talks on the first three articles were especially irregular, that the Speaker had to gather the Court as soon as possible, that he had to find the way to follow, and that the attitude that came out would directly affect the other clauses of the bill. Because the first three articles and other articles, which we object to, are directly related to other articles of the bill. We are now faced with a situation where the General Assembly has reached Article 33, before the situation has been resolved regarding the substances that have been considered indirectly. Since there are no first three clauses in any bill of law or articles of objection will be discussed without clearing the situation, we also need to clarify our objection here. Deputy Speakers of Parliament have said that so far the process of our objection has been initiated, a study has been launched, and it will be briefed on the results of this with the General Assembly. Reasons said to have been delayed by the chairman of parliament's presence in Canada have also been eliminated by the return of the Speaker of Parliament to his homeland. Therefore, we would like to rephrase that these talks, especially in the first three articles, cannot be held from Article 33 of the bill, until the situation regarding these unconcerned substances becomes clear. I need you to clarify this situation, inform the General Assembly... Is there going to be a re-interview on these substances... Otherwise, we would like to invite you to inform the General Assembly to explain how a course of action has been set regarding the current objections. So these talks cannot be held, Mr. President, until this situation is cleared up.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0031	Now, Mr. Baluken, there's also been a formal discussion about this, if I recall correctly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0032	No, it hasn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0033	Didn't it open, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0034	No, it didn't. Our request for a formal debate has not been answered. We're here because of the reason the Speaker is abroad... I mean, we wanted to discuss the procedure, but since there was such a motive, it was avoided without a formal debate. If you continue, we'll have a formal discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0035	Now, let me give you a brief piece of information on this matter. You all know that the Speaker was in Canada. And when the Speaker gets out of the country, he's leaving the other party, the ruling party's deputy speakers, and he's not giving us any power of attorney, sir. For him, we don't have the authority to collect the House Council, because he didn't leave it to us. If the ruling legislature left one or the other to its vice presidents, it should have been him, and he didn't, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0036	He did, yes, that's right. Therefore, this bill cannot be discussed, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0037	Now that he's back from abroad, we'll have to wait for him to gather the Court -- he's not back in Ankara yet, he's probably already at the funeral.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0038	It's been two weeks, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0307par0039	Now, when he gathers the Court -- which he needs to collect -- then we'll appeal to the view, and we'll decide how to proceed. That's what you said. There's nothing I can do about it right now, I explained that.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0308par0040	However, the bill is invisible, Mr. President, because the substances we object to are directly related to the matter that is currently being discussed. If there had been a different result in irregularities in the first three articles, it could have affected the talks on the following items. Therefore, it is against the Civil Code to discuss this bill at this time. So you can also consult or discuss it with the Laws and Decisions. We demand that our objection be evaluated this way.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0309par0041	I wanted a promise, too.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0310par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0309par0043	The word is given according to the order of the will, and the Civil Code is there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0311par0044	I'm going to listen to the other group of vice presidents, and then we'll talk again. Yes, Mr. Altay, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0309par0047	Thank you. Mr. President, as of February 17th, we began to discuss the bill we discussed in this Parliament, if I recall correctly. Today is March 2nd, not a serious road. We're still on Article 33, even though our Parliament is running out of hours in the morning. However, what Mr. Bauken has objected to is a severe Civil Code and a violation of the Constitution during the absence of duty. The three political parties ended up with their views on the entire bill, unrecognised, unrecognised, unrecognizable, just as they did in the 4+4+4 Commission talks, unfortunately, the House faced a very irregular view. In that conflict, we did not apply for a procedure in accordance with Article 13 of the Civil Code, as we were also busy with the health of our friends when there were known injuries, injuries, fractures. However, 13 is very clear, Mr. President. A path is determined in Article 13. In the face of such a scene to follow, the vice presidents of the Justice and Development Party, who led the previous sessions, followed a very open-minded attitude, as if the law was not the law, but the legislators of the Justice and Development Party, especially Mr. Yakut. We don't think you're going to have that attitude just because Mr. Gardendoor has a happy attitude. So, if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Turkey meets and determines the way to be followed, then we demand that you put an end to this tragic political situation if the three political parties are in the same demand, given that the Parliament is made up of four political parties. Whether this Court gathers now or tonight at midnight. Take a break, take an hour off, no problem. I'm just saying it can't be called in more than an hour. But our MPs are ready to work. But I don't think it's possible that you're going to continue this irregularity, this illegality, this illegality. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit06spe0312par0051	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, I'm calling the members of the group to the rear, and I'm taking a half-hour recess.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. The commission and the government are in place. Now, members of parliament, as a result of a meeting with the Speaker of Parliament regarding the objections previously made by the members of the group, according to the Civil Charter 13. We will gather the Court tomorrow morning at 10:30 a.m., and we will reach a decision on the road to follow. But before we make that decision -- I mean, we'll decide that, but -- we'll continue our talks now.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0313par0007	Mr. President, we can't continue the negotiations because the 13th Amendment says the path to follow must be determined. The path to follow is currently undetermined. It's been going on for two weeks. If we're going to continue, we're going to have a formal discussion about your attitude...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0314par0008	Mr. President, may I say something?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0312par0009	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0314par0012	Mr. President, frankly, Mr. Speaker, if the President has decided to round up the Presidential Court, there is only one decision that the law requires, to decide that these talks about what happened and what is contrary to the Civil Code are Keenlemekü, that they are gone. Therefore, there is no point in coming to Article 33 today based on a meeting that has not happened. Therefore, we don't think it's enough that Mr. Speaker's will to gather only about this, by gathering the Speaker of Parliament's Presidential Court. It's the will... Such a negotiation is unacceptable without a decision to return our rights and laws from the Civil Code. Mr. President, in this framework, I would like to explain a very important matter to the esteemed MPs here in the presence of our nation. Turkey's Grand National Assembly President and Parliament Speakers serve under the Interior Charter. So, in accordance with the Civil Code, I would like to express that, in this regard, the opposition, the rights, the rights, the law of opposition Speakers of Parliament, are extortion, such as giving power authority over this matter to someone in power, such as giving it to the deputy speaker of the ruling party. Parliament Speakers serve under the Civil Code, which is not the mandate of the ruling or opposition Speakership of Parliament under the Civil Code. He is the deputy chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to enforce the law. Therefore, the fact that the Speaker did not give you that authority with Mr. Coral Akşener, whose power of power was opposition when he went abroad suggests that he acted with a segregation when he performed this mission. It's so bad, so wrong. In this case, parliament's deputy speaker also legitimizes the fact that the government has given us a will in the Civil Code, which does whatever it wants to do. I would like to say that I condemn the Speaker's will and preference in this matter, and that he should not be discriminated against in the next process when he gives the office of Speaker of Parliament over these things. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0315par0015	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Baluken, you're going to have a formal discussion. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0316par0017	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0317par0018	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0318par0019	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0319par0020	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0320par0021	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0321par0022	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0322par0023	Now, I say again, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, in favor; Mr. Engin Altay, opposite; Mr. Idris Baluken, contrary; Mr. Oktay Vural, in favor... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0323par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, a matter that has actually been a topic of debate for the past two weeks and has been tried to be used, especially here, as a means of obstruction, unfortunately, has been expressed in the same way today. The issue was discussed in the 13th article of the Civil Code, and in previous sessions. This issue was also discussed in the same way. In fact, I don't think it's right that a matter that has been discussed in the same way as a procedure debate, which has been agreed upon by the procedure debate. Mr. President, you've just stated, of course, that the Council of Presidents will meet, determine the method, but in the meantime, both the open provisions of the Civil Code and your testimony and the previous statements, the procedures of the Parliament are very clear and clear. Now, Mr. President, the 13th Article of the Civil Code -- of course, if it is alleged that there is such a mistake after the merger -- says that if it is discovered after the merger, it will decide the way to follow by gathering Parliament Speaker Divan. If there's a restraining order in the law, what's common if there's a restraining order or a pause in the work of the House, or if there isn't one? The usual is to continue the merger, to continue the work of the House. Parliament follows its usual agenda, goes on, works, and, as soon as the Council of Presidents meets, it meets late, if the legislator had put such a sentence here as a prerequisite for the meeting of the Council's Presidential Court. ▪ This issue would be called a recession until the moment the decision was made. Mr. President, my dear friends, since there is no such issue, the Civil Code has made it very clear that the Court of Parliament will be meeting on this matter, making its decision, but in the meantime the merger will continue, the negotiations will continue. What's right, what's supposed to be, what we've been doing for two weeks, has already been decided by the discussion of procedure. Of course, in favor of your opinion, I've also made a commitment, which should continue, but if you'd like, I'd like to offer it to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0324par0035	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Against Sinop MP Engin Altay. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, of course, to take a side as a member of the party's members of the Turkish National Assembly, who has held a hearing before you during the talks of a bill that began on February 17th, which has brought a fight to the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party Group may be in a hurry to pass the law, but the MPs sitting there should never have had that right. As a result of these mismanagement practices, three or four of our MPs have been severely beaten, hospitalized, ugly images have occurred in Parliament over the past two weeks. These are the dimensions, but there's another dimension. There's one thing we've always said: this is where the law is made. If the law is being broken here, God bless Turkey. What I mean here by law is that the Civil Code is a law for this place, and I'm going further, and I'm going further, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also constitutional in terms of how it works and how it works. Mr. President - Civil Code 13 is quite clear -- let me just say first: I don't know what you discussed with Mr. Cicek, but Mr. Flower is the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and not just a Civil Code authority. Second: This law cannot be discussed, Mr. President, without the meeting of the Court of Presidents, without the execution of the 13th Amendment. Sir, it has been discussed so far... that the vice presidents who have been conducting the session have publicly, publicly sided with each other. What did they do? They have broken this Civil Law under their feet. The decision was required, he voted; the roll call was requested, he ignored it. Mr. President, I would like to reiterate to your witness that there have been no 20-minute talks on this bench that have been given to political party groups all over this law.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0326par0044	He called and you didn't come.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0045	It wasn't done. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0326par0046	He called, you didn't come.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0047	You've been bandits. So where did this turn out to be? It's like a war zone in here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0326par0049	You were the bandit.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0327par0050	Please don't argue, just listen.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0051	Mr. President, under the circumstances, this law...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0328par0052	You were acting, acting.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0053	We don't want to allow further chew on the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0328par0054	Well, don't chew it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0055	Yeah, we don't want any footage of what's happened here so far, but I'm also saying that we're going to use the right to democratic response. Your attitude is not correct. Now, what you need to do is skip Bill 684 and start negotiations with whatever law is behind it. An otherwise unpleasant situation will cause more unpleasant images in this Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0329par0058	Is that a threat?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0059	I'm not saying that as a threat.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0329par0060	I invite you to observe the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0061	I'm not saying it's a threat, but I've said it 50 times. I came here with this nation's votes, I don't chew it, I don't chew it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0330par0062	Act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0325par0063	I'll take full advantage of that. Mr. President, I'm warning you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0331par0067	Thank you, Mr. Altay. İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0332par0071	Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, have come up here and taken an oath, sworn to the rule of law, sworn to honor and honor that we will not abandon our loyalty. Thus, the issues written here today in this Civil Code and in the Constitution are actually the law of the nation. Unfortunately, with the Justice and Development Party's stances, the Speakers of Parliament have prevented the use of our rights stemming from the Civil Code. His speech on the entire nationalist movement group has been blocked. The nationalist movement group has been blocked from speaking on the part. Although the decision was not enough, although we asked for a roll call, although there was no majority, in the actual situation, parliament's deputy speaker has shown that they exist by undermining the nation's law.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0333par0073	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0332par0074	The motions have been voted before his cause was read. There are 2/3 of us, most of us not being searched for the majority of the relevant members of the Commission. We have a majority of the Commission, which, by the way, has been accepted as a majority, and thus the right of the National Party of Action to speak on the motions has been restricted. Although there was noise here at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the 68th article was not implemented despite the noise.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0334par0075	Who made them?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0332par0076	The law of the people of Fiilen has been declared. It's run by a coup d'état.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0335par0077	Which law?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0332par0078	In fact, those who want to silence the sovereignty of the nation here with a coup d'état show that they are getting further and further away from representing the national will, acting in a chain of command. We only have one power: it's law. And it's the Deputy Speaker who needs to ensure that this law is obeyed. The Deputy Speaker didn't do that. So, what needs to be done is that this law cannot be discussed until the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has gathered the Court and resolved these irregularities. There is no other decision to be made by the Council of Parliament on this matter. It's simply unacceptable to have an interview here that doesn't exist. It's a coupist mentality that the majority dictatorship, the majority will, the law of the law and the sovereignty of the nation, which has the power to claim against the law and the rule of the nation, can't be handed over to a couptarian mind. We have made our views on them clear and clear in this framework. As a nationalist movement party, we've established our position on these. What the Council of Parliament has to do is re-establish negotiations on these issues. On this axis, as the National Movement Party, we, the Commission, the political parties have made their claims in the Commission, they have demonstrated their motions. Unregarded, those who have not stepped foot in these matters, those who have broken our law, unfortunately, have declared that they will act on this internal security law with instructions from the Imralı, which is a serious action against Parliament law and the sovereignty of the nation. So pay attention to the attitude of political parties here, saying don't act on instructions from the Imralı, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0336par0080	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Bingöl MP İdris Baluken... Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0337par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It is a fact that during two weeks of talks, the Civil Code has been violated and the law has been ignored. In fact, many lawmakers in the EC PARTY admit that there is lawlessness. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Let's just say, one, the number of decisions we've asked for, the number of decisions we don't have is enough. The attendance demands have been requested, Parliamentary Vice President has not responded to these roll call requests, following instructions from the EC PARTY. He was asked to discuss the procedure of this method, and the deputy speaker did not open a formal debate. The rights of political party groups regarding all talks on the law have been removed, the opposition parties about the question-answer part have been given a say in questions to the Minister, the MPs here due to the noise and the fight have been beaten to the level of hospital, the session has been carried out in the same manner. So there's a clear violation of the Civil Code that we're going to sum up in 6-7. Now, when this is a violation of the Civil Code, when it's understood after the merger, the path is clear. We, as three political parties, have said this many times in the General Assembly. The Speaker must gather the Court at once to determine the course of action. Right now, even after two weeks, there's no road to follow because the Speaker hasn't collected the Court. Therefore, this bill cannot be discussed because the chain of errors, which began with irregularities in most of the first three or 10 articles, has affected the discussion of all substances until Article 33. Mr. President, I mean, we don't know what you're seeing with the Speaker, but the comment you made inside was more like this parallel. Apparently, the Speaker has decided to continue this session in a manner that is in favor of the EC PARTY. Even if this session continues, this bill must not be discussed until this situation is clear. Since the Speaker will gather the Court in the morning, if there is no one running from the General Assembly this evening, then we're here, you bring in the following laws, the General Assembly will discuss the following laws, the Parliament's Court on this bill will clarify the situation tomorrow, and the General Assembly will continue its work. The Speaker alone has no authority to set a course for you, and I'm saying it's the only way he'll make a decision after his meeting with the Presidential Court, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0338par0091	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Members of parliament, as a result of these talks, I have changed my position on continuing talks on my position. It would be better if the negotiations didn't continue, if the House was healthier...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0339par0094	Mr. President, it must be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0338par0095	...free from tension...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0339par0097	Mr. President, that's not illegal!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0338par0098	I believe it will continue closer to his consciousness.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0339par0099	Mr. President, you will submit to the approval of the General Assembly. There's no such thing as illegality!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit07spe0338par0100	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0338par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission and the government are in place. Now, according to Article 58 of the Civil Charter, Bingol MP İdris Baluken is required to correct the statement in the last session's statement. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0340par0008	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to change some of my terms in the last report of the merger. I salute you all. In the last session, I made a comment and evaluation on the photo of Hasip Bey, which was taken by a AKP MP by, and I stated that what was done was disrespectful to both the MP and HDP. In this regard, of course, we also received a intense response from our party friends, and did it fall upon you to defend the MPP? We demand that he be corrected as disrespect to the People's Democratic Party (HDP). It must be the work of the MHP spokesman to defend the DP, to express disrespect for the DP. Therefore, it is extremely important for us to make this correction in the report. In general, the MHP has a clear attitude toward our party. And today, during the General Assembly talks, they came out here and made all kinds of insults to our party, MPHPs. We invite the MPP to always discuss political projects here, to talk about solution projects by taking these low-level insults. This call is valid again. Therefore, the People's Democratic Party does not need to say anything, especially in matters concerning the DP. Clearly, it was reflected in the public in a different way by Hasip Bey to sign a victory signal that our party base used heavily. Here, actually, the AK PARTY group has to conduct a disciplinary process in its own way, because we're doing a serious job here, and every member of parliament needs to take a serious approach to everything here. Whether he agrees or disagrees, he approves, or disapproves, it's one thing, but to reflect a situation in a different way that exists in the General Assembly, to present it in a different way, to create a question mark in the minds of the masses, as if our party MP was making a common sign of the MHP base, first of all, it doesn't apply to political ethics. The fact that this was later spread on social media by a mayor of the EC PARTY is also politically ethically problematic. So, as I said, we're here to divide ideas, you can bring the talks we've made, the solution projects we've set up, and you can criticize them, but in public, I'm saying that some manipulations on misperception management don't match the seriousness of political parties, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0341par0012	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0013	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0343par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0344par0016	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0017	I'd like to make a statement on your attitude according to Article 63. Because, Mr. President, right now, we've moved on to the bill and proposals. In accordance with Article 58 of the Civil Code, you made a promise that a member of parliament would not be required.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0344par0018	You can't say you don't want an MP. There's one here, sir. He sent it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0019	Mr. President, the 63rd article on your attitude is clear and clear. Look, I'm reading the 63rd article...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0345par0020	Why? You always called everyone who asked you not to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0021	Whether or not there is room for discussion... is being made into these reports.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0345par0022	Didn't you say that we don't discuss the procedure according to everyone's wishes?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0023	Republican People's Party Deputy Chair ▪ There is not always a formal discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0345par0024	You said it wouldn't open up according to everyone's wishes.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0025	I'm Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0346par0026	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0027	But right now, I'm having a proper discussion. ▪ Whether or not there is room for discussion... Article 63. Mr. President, are you listening?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0346par0029	I'm listening.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0030	The president is invited to the agenda or to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we began to discuss Bill 684 in rows; the Commission on it and the government on it is in place.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0347par0032	The president has made a decision that the law will not be discussed.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0033	But with the Commission and the government in place, you can't make promises based on Article 58 of the past report.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0347par0034	He gives, he gives, he always gives.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0035	I'd like your word on that.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0348par0037	So we can meet the MPs' demands.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0038	Mr. President, Mr. President, it seems that according to Article 68, you've decided to shut it down. If you have any such intentions -- I just told you inside -- I'm shutting this place down. Say it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0348par0039	I take it you're a student of intent.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0040	No, shut it down if you dare.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0349par0041	What do you mean? Mr. President, this is not a matter of courage.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0042	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0350par0043	Mr. Elitaş, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a place where courage is tested.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0044	I'm saying don't test him. So...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0351par0045	You're turning me on! You're turning me on!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0350par0046	The Civil Code is enforced here, and it is governed according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0047	Mr. President, I'd like word on 63.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0350par0048	This is not the place for courage, this is the place for discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0049	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0352par0050	Mr. President, take it back. What, do they have a pet or a gun, so they're gonna get him killed?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0051	Mr. President, I'd like word on 63.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0353par0052	You're very welcome. Now, Mr. Hakkari MP Adil Zozani has a request to make amends, and I will carry it out, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0054	Mr. President, Mr. President, first of all, you have to promise me according to 63.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0353par0055	I'll give you my word, but Mr. Zozani has asked for it before.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0056	Mr. President, would you excuse me? But I'm saying it's wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0354par0057	Mr. President, I have a promise to make. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0059	I'll do it, and I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0060	Mr. President, I asked for word before they did. I'm saying what you're doing right now is against the rules. Look, Mr. President, I'm saying that your procedure is irregular.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0061	I'll give you my word, but I promised him first. Please, you...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0062	Mr. President, Mr. President, look, calm down, calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0063	I'm calm, you be calm.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0064	Mr. President, would you excuse me? Look, right now...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0065	I told you I'd open up a formal debate, but Mr. Zozani's request came before you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0066	Mr. President, would you excuse me? Sir, look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0067	You're very welcome, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0068	Mr. President, I beg of you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0069	Please... can I...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0070	Listen to me! Listen to me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0071	I'm listening.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0072	Listen to me!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0073	I listened.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0342par0074	Look, Mr. President, what you're doing is against the rules. I'm saying you're wrong to apply Article 58 at the moment. I'd like to discuss it in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0356par0076	Don't shoot like that!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0355par0077	Here you go, Mr. Elitaş. Who else is gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0357par0079	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0358par0080	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0359par0081	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0360par0082	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0361par0083	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0362par0084	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0363par0085	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0086	Against my attitude...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0365par0087	On the mark, I showed both of the clerks, and I showed them first.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0088	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0365par0089	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0366par0090	The way you've been discussing it, it's 58...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0091	You can't promise, he says.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0366par0092	Okay, that's it. State it because he thinks that every party...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0093	He said I can't make promises according to 58, so I'm going to start a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0367par0094	Mr. President, would you look at the transcripts, see who requested them? Mr. President, look at the transcripts, who requested them?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0366par0095	We requested it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0096	They requested it, sir, they brought it here, before.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0367par0097	Who requested it, what did they do?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0364par0098	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0368par0099	No instructions, no instructions.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0367par0100	Sir, look...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0369par0101	Brother, I signaled with my hand, and he saw two members of the Court. I asked for word before you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0370par0102	Mr. Altay... requested it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0369par0103	We didn't see it. Let them say it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0371par0105	Review the transcripts, take a half-hour break, review the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0372par0106	This isn't right! Are you going to lead the House?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0369par0107	We didn't. Let them say it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0371par0108	He demands it, the future to be printed. It's not what Mr. Elitas did.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0373par0109	Mr. President, take a break to take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0374par0110	Mr. Altay, Mr. Vural... Against Mr. Elitaş, Mr. Zozani... Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0375par0116	Well, Elistash, you know, everybody needs the law one day. (CHEERING) How you're jumping!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0118	But we're not attacking there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0375par0119	Besides...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0120	We're not going on the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0377par0121	You said if you had the guts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0122	We're not going on the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0378par0123	You molested the podium.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0124	We're not insulting the president.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0378par0125	You challenged the bench.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0379par0126	Congressmans, please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0127	We don't call it immoral.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0380par0128	He's acting.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0129	You took the test of courage.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0130	We don't call him an immoral bastard.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0131	What a shame...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0132	You said "the bandit."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0133	I said, "The Bandit," and I'd say, "If he did it again."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0134	We don't call him an immoral bastard.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0382par0135	You're such a good actress.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0136	I didn't say immoral.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0137	You did.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0138	I said, "The Bandit." Political work is immoral. Again, Ayþe Nur is the bandit of Bahçaplı. Politicians are also political indecency. But I didn't come to the stand of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and tell the President to do this.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0376par0139	I didn't say "thief."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0140	Yeah, yeah, yeah, look at the state you're in! These are your good days. You're going to look for this law so hard that you're going to struggle so hard for it, but don't be afraid, in our power, there's going to be a Parliament without violations of the Civil Code of Turkey's National Assembly. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, Congressmans, there's been a debate going on in the middle for ten days now. Mr. Vice President, who led the session after the procedure debate had just been held under Article 13 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and after the meeting with Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of the Turkish Parliament -- as far as I know -- tomorrow at 10:30, Mr. Cemil Cicek, has agreed that this decision should not continue. The decision is the right decision; it is the right decision. When you open the last joke of Article 13 and read it, that's all there is to it. And don't go into the thing: "Sir, we're the majority, how come we don't get what we want in Congress?" I'll tell you again and again: Democracy is not the name of the regime where the two ducks have the upper hand of an elephant, so look at it this way. Let's just...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0383par0143	What a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0381par0144	No shame, no shame. The president's attitude is correct, I think 684 is invisible. There is an opinion taken after the formal debate, and two things can be done in this view: What if we move to the next 688, but if the commission does not come, the House must be closed. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0384par0148	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Against you, Mr. Elitaş. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0385par0152	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while I was watching at the TV station, you used a statement saying that tomorrow at 10:30, the Presidential Court will meet, but we have decided to continue the talks. You've come to discuss the procedure, and I've changed my mind that the negotiations should continue, so you said you'd take a five-minute break. Look, Mr. President, you had a meeting with the Speaker. I read to you the 15th article of the Civil Code... where you serve on behalf of the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0386par0153	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0385par0154	This is what you need to do in the context of your meeting with the Speaker... It's in front of you, read it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0386par0156	You read it, too. Full reading, full, complete.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0385par0157	The job of the president's MPs is to manage the General Assembly meetings in place of the President and to observe the regulation of the report summary with the report magazine on the session he is conducting.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0387par0158	You wanted to meet with 58. He asked for an opinion at 58, Mr. President, remind him.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0385par0159	Mr. President, what you're going to do is, the Speaker of Parliament said, "I'm collecting this Presidential Court at 10:30 tomorrow, but you have to continue the meeting of Bill 684.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0387par0160	He asked for a word on your attitude according to 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0388par0161	You've opened the way according to 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0385par0162	Mr. President, you have no right to interfere with me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0387par0163	He asked for it according to 58, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0388par0164	No, but I remind you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0389par0165	Why don't you talk? You didn't say anything when you yelled at us from here. Ayþe Nur wasn't yelling at us, he liked it when he yelled at us.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0387par0166	He asked for it according to 58, Mr. President, and he must speak according to 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0167	Mr. President, look, what you need to do now is, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Cemil Flower, I am not following your instructions. So either I'm shutting down the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or come, I'm not going to continue, you're going to say. That's your call. Mr. Cemil Flower will come here and conduct the hearing.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0389par0168	You're used to giving instructions from below.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0169	If you're not doing that, then you're in violation of the duties vested in you by the legislature.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0391par0170	You're used to being lawless. You've been quiet about all the violations.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0171	I said I'm going to close it. But if I can't close it, you're going to do something fun if you want to close it. I said, I'm going to close it. But all of a sudden, you said, "I'm going to close it."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0392par0172	He didn't say he was gonna turn it off.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0173	Look, Mr. President, right now we're discussing a bill of law. If there's any arguments about him, you'll do it. As a matter of fact, you stated that the meeting with the Speaker will take place tomorrow at 10:30, but you said we'd continue the negotiations. Why? That was your agreement with the Speaker. If Mr. Cemil Cicek were sitting on that bench right now in your position, his job would be to continue the negotiations of the bill.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0393par0174	Let him sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0394par0175	If he'd come. I mean, what if he did?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0176	I advise you, take a break, open up Mr. Cemil Çiçe. I'm not running the way you want me to...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0393par0177	Oh, let him be instructed!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0178	...so either come sit here or put another friend on it. I don't do it. You have to say, "I'm not doing it."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0395par0180	Come on, that's enough, come on.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0181	Mr. President, this is what you have to do. I want to take this form. We didn't insult you, we didn't say anything immoral, we didn't say anything illegal, we came here, we tried to speak our voice, and we didn't invade that high office, we didn't go up there. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Because...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0396par0183	You led by instruction, by instruction!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0390par0184	...the AK PARTY is decent, and the AK PARTY is not violent; the AK PARTY is bad, and the EC PARTY is not bad. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0397par0187	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. However, I'd like to say, Mr. Lawmakers, that I don't approve of the word. The Speakers of Parliament who come here only follow the provisions of the Civil Code, sir, and do not act under instructions.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0398par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0397par0191	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0398par0192	If I say the wrong thing, I know how to apologize. My father used to tell us: "Don't apologize, don't do anything to be sorry. " This is what I get for being a bandit.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0399par0194	On the stand, I mean.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0398par0195	Ayþe Nur Bahçkapılı went outside the Civil Charter while conducting the session. I'll tell you again, that's what I call being a thug.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0400par0197	Now, Mr. Vural, I call you to the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0401par0199	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0402par0200	Damn you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0403par0201	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0402par0202	You're not ashamed to say that! Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0403par0203	Shame on you, shame on you! What will I be ashamed of, shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0404par0204	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0405par0205	Mr. President, the provocateur is on duty.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0406par0206	Your dad's a great guy, but...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0407par0207	Mr. President, the Speakers of the House...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0208	It's not your place to question my manpower! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0409par0209	Mr. Altay... please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0210	I'm talking about your father...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0211	What will happen to your father?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0212	Your father is a very good man. I say, "Your father is just like you." I don't say.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0213	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0214	You're naughty! Sit down!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0215	Don't make me sick, Elitaş! Leave my father out of this! Look at your own father!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0216	Your father is a good man. I say, your father is not like you. I say not.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0217	What do you mean? What am I?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0218	Your father was a good man.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0219	That's one word for it. Don't be rude! You're rude!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0411par0220	Congressmans, please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0221	I'm not talking about the bandit, I'm not saying the bastard.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0408par0222	I'm telling you, I'm saying it again!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0410par0223	You're the bandit and you're the dishonorable one.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0412par0225	Please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0413par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0412par0227	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0413par0228	The mandate given to the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to the parliamentary speakers is to act under the Civil Code. On this axis, the parliamentary legislators are obliged not to follow one's orders, but to enforce the law, which is the nation's orders. (AK PARTY desks) In this regard, it is clear and clear that those who are undermining the laws of the nation and acting under the command of command are simply doing the power of the national will.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0414par0229	Mr. President, he's describing you, actually.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0413par0230	I would like to point out here that if it is said to be carried out by order of Ayşe Nur Çimil Çiçek, of Bahçapılı, that the Speaker of Parliament has acted on the order of the AKP group's deputy.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0414par0231	Mr. President, he's describing you right now. He's describing the instructions you received inside.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0415par0232	Dear Elitaş, you're very welcome, please...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0414par0233	Why don't you...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0415par0234	You're deflecting.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0414par0235	It's a perfect description of you, and I'm not deflecting you at all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0416par0236	Mr. President, I would like to point out that I do not feel comfortable with Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı acting on the orders of the chairman of the AKP group, rather than on the orders of the Speaker of Parliament. What's really important here is that a deputy Speaker is obviously acting on the orders of another party. In this regard, it is important that you, as acting Speaker of the House, be committed to implementing it under the Civil Code. Let us act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0415par0237	Now, Mr. Vural, we're going to... Mr. Halaçoglu, come in, sir. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0417par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, my dear friends, the week before that, when it was ruled by Mr. Faithful Yakut, Article 58 has always been applied in the House. Now, the 58th amendment to the correction of mistakes made in previous sessions states the following: ▪ If a deputy or minister wants to make a commitment to correct a statement that is his own in the unification report, the president will make a commitment not to go past five minutes, therefore, why do you apply a subject that has already been implemented today, which is highly against the Charter, which is illegal and illegal. Now, on the other hand, he's asserting the 15th article, Mr. Elitaş. Yes, the 15th article: the duty of the vice president is to manage the General Assembly meetings in place of the President. • But when you look at the 10th joke of the 14th article here, it fulfills the duties given by the Constitution, the laws and the Rights. • So what does that mean? In the same way, it means that by acting in accordance with the code of conduct of the President, the Vice President must act in accordance with the Charter. He doesn't take orders from anyone, he doesn't take orders from the group's deputy president, he doesn't get any orders from the president. The charter does what it orders, because it's the Constitution of the Legislature. Now, here, you, on your own, have done what you wanted to do to the vice presidents of your own party, here, you have broken the law, you have broken the law. Have you applied the 68th article, not the 58th article, when so many fights have arisen? You didn't. Why didn't you apply the 68th article when the blood took away the body? Why didn't you warn me, when the fight broke out, when the noise broke out, and then you went back to shutting down the House, and a lot of people even fell down there? A little, isn't there a conscience this big? What if something happened, something happened to him? But when it doesn't suit you, you call it the law. Look, you're gonna need it tomorrow. I've been invited here, I'm coming, Mr. President, but keep that noise out of sight. Without repeating it twice, he immediately returned to the AKP spokesman. He was already talking, he didn't even know it. He was so angry that the charter music was all justified. Now you're talking about the law, and you're talking about the law. First, try to observe the Charter yourself. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0418par0248	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0250	Thank you. Mr. President, I regret to inform you, Mr. Elistash, that we are using the same bench as you, but I don't think as you do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0420par0252	Then don't talk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0253	I expected Mr. Elistash to get up and discuss the procedure with Mr. President while you were closing the session. You said, "I'm shutting down the discussion on this matter." Why do you continue the negotiations as if nothing has happened again?" It's against the Civil Code. I expected him to say, Mr. Elitaş went to Article 58. What does Article 58 say? Here's the thing about the corrections of the transcripts from the previous joint. Both I and Mr. Baluken have petitions that we've already submitted, we'll get out, we'll make corrections here -- we have statements. But Mr. Elitaş took the stand, and forgot 58. He forgot that he wanted to talk about the procedure, and went to 15, and went to the second joke of 15. Do you know what the second joke of 15 is? Mr. Elitaş made a threat there. The second joke of 15 is threatened by the speech of Mr. Elitas. Look, Mr. Vice President, remember, the Speaker will appoint the person who sits there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0421par0254	Right.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0255	You sit there today, you don't sit there tomorrow. To say...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0421par0256	Right.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0257	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0421par0258	Right.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0259	Oh, that's what he says. [[According to the AK PARTY, the Internal Charter does not say so.]] Wait, he says it's true. Don't object.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0421par0262	That's what the Civil Code says.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0263	Oh, he referred to it as a threat.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0422par0264	Remove the opposition, remove the opposition.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0265	Good, right, okay, you admit it. Thank you, Mr. Elitaş, at least you agreed to this.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0423par0266	The Civil Code says that, does it say something else?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0267	No, you threatened me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0424par0268	We understand what we're reading.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0269	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş, you are well aware of the 72nd Amendment. As we go through the negotiations of this law, the Civil Code 72 has not been implemented, the Civil Code 81 has not been implemented, the groups have not been able to speak, the individuals have not been able to speak.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0425par0270	He didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0271	Right? He couldn't do any of this, could he?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0426par0272	Read the transcripts, the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0273	Why couldn't he, why couldn't he?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0426par0275	Read the hungry transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0276	Excuse me, excuse me. God has shown us this day, and since we have made you activists here, God has shown us this day, that is enough.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0426par0277	Read the whole story.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0278	Look, it's enough that we've put you here as activists, using the power of democracy, using our right to resist.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0427par0279	By violence.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0280	It's in the history of Congress. This has gone down in the history of Congress. Right now, you're both in the position of occupying commissions and locking the agenda of the House, we call it public. You've locked the agenda of the House.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0428par0282	Read the transcripts. How many times has he been called?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0283	Come, come, let's discuss the next law. We're in, we're in till morning, we'll talk till the end of 688. Are you in?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0429par0284	That's for us to decide.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0285	Are you in? Bring it in. You just locked the agenda.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0430par0286	We'll get to that.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0419par0287	By God, you put yourself in this position with your own hands, we didn't do it, you did it yourself. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, if we use the Civil Code clauses as a threat and blackmail against each other, we'll be in this situation. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, that's what our statements were in the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0431par0292	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Congressmans, this discussion of my position has been opened on Article 58, to correct past reports. This has been treated the same way in previous sessions. There is no change in my attitude for him.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0432par0294	Did it happen during the interviews, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0431par0295	According to Article 58...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0432par0296	Did it happen during the law talks?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0433par0297	Yes, it has. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0431par0298	It's done. According to Article 58, Zozani is required to correct.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0434par0300	Mr. President, look, after my speech, you promised two congressmen. My speech got you up here, the party...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0431par0301	You've opened something about the attitude according to 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0434par0302	It's not about your attitude, it's the 58th article.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0431par0303	You opened it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0434par0304	63. You can't do the 58. You can't do the...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0435par0305	You're talking about 58. You have opened for my attitude, saying, "You can't abide by it."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0434par0307	Mr. President, stop arguing with me. I'm asking you to do this. [HHP rows of noise, order of MHP]) (sounds)) And I'd appreciate it if you'd keep those parasites quiet.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0436par0310	You're the parasite!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0437par0311	You're the parasite! Head parasite! You're the head parasite!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0438par0312	Elitaş came here to mix it up.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0439par0313	What will you be pleased with? I can't hear you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0440par0314	Mr. President, in previous applications, when the bill was discussed, after the meeting began...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0441par0315	Shame on you! What do you mean, parasite? Mr. President, this is taunting all opposition lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0440par0317	If you're not listening to me...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0441par0318	▪ Parasite is taunting opposition MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0442par0319	I'm listening, but I can't hear you, Mr. Elitaş. I'm asking them to shut up.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0440par0320	Then turn on the mic.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0441par0321	Mr. President, we're either going to take it back or we're going to talk about bullying. Mr. President, either he's going to take it back, or it's either because he's saying "parasite" or...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0443par0323	What did he say? I can't hear you, please tell me. What did you say?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0444par0324	Ask for the transcripts, and the opposition tells the lawmakers that they're going to take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0445par0325	Turn on the mike and I'll tell you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0446par0326	What's he gonna turn on?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0447par0327	The parasites of silence. He said, "I want to take it back or talk about bullying."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0445par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0448par0329	Are you done, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0445par0330	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0449par0331	Let him tell you, sir...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0445par0332	It's in previous applications. You said. In previous applications, is there an application in accordance with Article 58?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0450par0333	I do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0451par0334	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0452par0335	Yes, you weren't there, Sadik Yakut knows.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0453par0336	Ask the faithful Yakut.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0454par0337	Is there, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0455par0338	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0453par0339	It's in the 65th.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0455par0340	Yes, I did, sir, I did.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0456par0341	While the bill is being discussed...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0453par0342	It's in the 65th.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0456par0343	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0457par0344	Mr. Elitaş, in accordance with Article 63 of my position according to you 58...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0458par0345	Take another break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0457par0346	...you've opened up a discussion of my attitude about not applying Article 58, and that argument of procedure is over, and I say I'll continue on this subject, and I'll continue to promise according to 58, please...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0459par0347	Mr. President, I'm asking a question, Mr. President. I'm asking a question.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0457par0348	Here you go, Mr. Zozani. I'll make a promise for the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0460par0349	Mr. President, first of all, we have a request. A few moments ago, the deputy leader of the group described all opposition party MPs as parasitic.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0459par0350	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, may I have your attention? In the matter of Article 58, has Article 58 been applied or applied as soon as a bill of law has been discussed?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0461par0352	I said it's been implemented, sir, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0459par0353	We'll see, friends show
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0461par0354	They showed it to me, they showed it to me, they gave it to me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0462par0355	Take a break, look.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0463par0356	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0464par0357	What session did it take?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0465par0358	Please...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0466par0359	Mr. President, I want you to find out from the report whether there's ever been an application...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0465par0360	Yes, sir, they'll show you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0467par0361	Ask for the transcripts, Mr. President. It's in the 65th Union.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0465par0362	Yes, I know, my friends told me. Because of the bullying, Mr. Zozani, you've asked for your word.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0468par0364	Take a break, throw in the will, I mean, it's a serious decision, it's a serious request, do it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0365	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0465par0366	Yes, please.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. In these heated discussions earlier, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, deputy leader of the EC PARTY, turned to the opposition party MPs and accused everyone of being parasitic, regardless of the group's difference.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0470par0371	Whoever made that noise, were you talking to them?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0471par0372	No, he didn't say to everyone, he said to anyone who wanted to cut him off from there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0373	Look, a lot of lawmakers were objecting to you at the time...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0470par0374	So he wasn't listening. But we were using our right to appeal, and I was interviewing the president.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0375	...because, Mr. Elitaş, you're always contradicting yourself tonight.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0470par0376	No way!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0377	Check the records...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0470par0378	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0379	Please, look, you've contradicted yourself at least 20 times in the last 20 minutes. Not like this. Not like this. Okay, it's your last term, we understand...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0472par0380	Get it out of your system!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0381	...you'll miss it a lot, we know that...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0473par0382	So do you, since you didn't leave the bench.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0383	But as someone who's been a member of the House for three semesters -- the three that I know of -- at least leave a blessing on your way out.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0473par0384	Getting a prayer from you is a curse on me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0385	Seriously, at least leave a blessing on your way out, and don't leave a fireball in the middle of the entire coven, you'll be badly remembered. Look, I'm not taking any of those words personally, and I'm not going to tell you, and I'm not going to charge you with parasites, and it's not our style or style...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0474par0387	We saw what you said last week! We know what you're saying!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0388	We used our civil rights here last week and this week and the week before.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0475par0389	You're playing theater, theater!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0390	You're playing the theater now. Yeah, that's the theater! Seriously, if it's theater, it really is. If you call it theater, it's theater.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0475par0391	You're keeping me busy with chores, Coven!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0392	If the ruling party is locking the agenda of the parliament's ruling party, it does not need to call anyone else "thetitro" (the parliament's agenda). So...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0476par0393	On June 7th, these people will show us how to do theater!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0394	Are you sure?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0476par0395	I'm sure.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0396	On June 8th, of course we'll tell you, we'll get a chance to tell you from this stand. We'll see, we'll all see, but fear really doesn't help with the time. [[From the AK PARTY lines, what fear? The voices, the noise.]] These people will show you the back of your neck on June 7th, you can be sure of that, but the current situation...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0477par0399	He can show you!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0469par0400	AKP Group, you're all going into the ball, you're all going into the ball, you're going into the ball, you can't see the ball, you're starting to hit each other. Mr. Elitaş, there's a problem tonight. Allow us to be lawful when we leave, Mr. Elitaş. Allow me. Mr. Elitaş will leave the House with a blessing on his back, and we'll give him this opportunity.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0403	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0479par0404	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying for the same reason.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0480par0405	All we want is parasite. (Laughter) So we want all lawmakers. ▪ How do you say parasitic?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0406	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0479par0407	Mr. Günal will speak.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0408	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0481par0409	President, there's no such thing, where did it come from? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0410	It's the way it is when you're teasing, sir. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0482par0412	Faithful Yakut registered 95 names.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0413	Please, Mr. Zozani...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0482par0414	Because of Mr Ahmet Aydın's word, Sadık Yakut has registered the names of 95 MPs to take the stand here. Republican People's Party or MHP Group...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0478par0415	Mr. Zozani, please, I promised the congressman on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, don't shout so loud at this time of night. So, someone's going to say parasitic, Elitaş is going to stretch this place out. He comes out of nowhere in the middle of the night, and he goes, and he doesn't know what's going on here, and then he says: "Ya, 58... Leave the statement, and ask Doğan with you, and ask Mahir Bey. Have friends seen 58?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0484par0420	It was discussed before the talks of the law, according to 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0421	Yeah, you were all here, sorry, most of you weren't here, but here's your own deputy group president, what you yourself said, Mr...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0485par0422	He can't be a minister, he'll leave with his eyes open!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0423	Look, dear friends, Mr. Faithful Yakut is here. It's all been discussed. I understand Mr. Elitas, as Mr. Adil Bey said, he wants to do a jubilee now, but you don't slap people by seeing red cards like that in a jubilee game. You're gonna take the kickoff, you're gonna know it's the last game, slowly... what are you doing, entering, starting, kicking a referee, kicking a football player...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0485par0425	It's because I can't look the most!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0426	I mean, now, we get it, okay, but that's not gonna happen. What happens tomorrow, you're out of three semesters. Okay, we have a lot of friends that are done. None of them are as aggressive as you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0486par0427	The public doesn't vote for you. Look at the language!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0428	Oh, really, there's nothing here? I just told you about economic management, guys, because there's one confusion, but one member of the group comes in and says something else, and the other says something else. Now, there's got to be at least one consistency when you say it. Now when you do that illegality, we object, and this time you say parasitic. Turn around, see, then, now, all of them -- they're talking -- what do we say? They're interfering as we speak. I mean, okay, I know you're upset, but not like this. I mean, after this hour, if you think you can do anything by coming in here and creating tensions, it's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0487par0429	You're the one who did it, you're the one who's nervous. Don't be nervous.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0430	You'll come here, we'll all obey the Civil Code. Mr. Group Vice Presidents are also here... in accordance with the Civil Charter 58. There is also a demand for a word according to 69. There is a debate on procedure according to 63. It is all done. I mean, there's nothing more natural than arguing about the law if it doesn't apply, if it starts before it's completed that way. So, come on, let's stop making up our own laws every time. We also remember your earlier discussions with Mr. Gardenscapli by harassing the Deputy Speaker across the street.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0488par0432	You did it, you did it!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0433	I'll get it out of the report. We'll show you what you said to him.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0489par0434	He's standing there, there's a female congressman, look!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0435	I mean, not just the lady...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0489par0436	Go back there, take a look at the congressman over there, over there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0437	Oh, so what?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0489par0438	Who broke that microphone in his hand?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0483par0439	Those who don't bring it, those who don't show it, those who don't! Let's see who threw it. I didn't break it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0490par0440	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0491par0441	Let's go!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0492par0442	Go ahead.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0493par0443	What's to lie about?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0492par0444	Namert it is.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0494par0446	Get back in your seat!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0493par0447	All right, bring it in. It's the bastard who lies, who broke it. Ask him who broke it. Where is Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0495par0449	Elistone broke it, Elitaş broke it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0496par0450	Bayram Bey broke it, Bayram Bey broke it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0497par0451	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0498par0452	Don't talk, you'll be mean.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0499par0453	What's that got to do It broke at the crack of dawn. I wasn't even in that hearing. So it's clear to me, Mr. Elitaş, that you're saying things that aren't true. When he said that our friend...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0498par0454	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0500par0455	Mr. Günal, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0499par0456	Mr. President, he's still speaking unrealisticly. He wasn't in that hearing, and neither was I.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0500par0457	We'll see, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0499par0458	It was broken when I got here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0501par0459	Look at the language!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0503par0461	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0462	Mr. President, the two speakers are doing different things because they're three years old, they're scoring goals for their own castle, they're doing jubilee and so on.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0503par0463	Yes, please, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0466	Mr. President, you see, while I was here discussing a matter with Mr. President, some of my fellow lawmakers made a noise, made a noise to silence me. You know, the radio...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0504par0467	No, you threatened me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0468	You're talking to me, your network is with me. You know, when you change the radio channel, you go back to someone else.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0505par0469	Say you're sorry, I'm way out of my league.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0470	The moment you turn around, when you change the channel, when there's a switch between the frequencies there, there's a sizzle, it's called parasite. See, the Turkish Language Association also describes parasitics as the person who has caused trouble in any case.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0506par0472	It means "stupid."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0473	I mean, I'm here to talk to you, and I'm talking to you, and somebody's trying to shut me up, and they're trying to stop me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0507par0474	Then you're the parasite, Elitaş, then.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0508par0475	You're the parasite, Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0476	Look, dear lawmakers, I've served 12 years in the AK PARTY, I've done it with honor, but our charter is that we won't be able to be elected MPs after three semesters. By June 7th, until the last sweat of my forehead, I will pay my debt to this party until the final hearings are submitted to the Election Board.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0507par0477	Guys, let's give him a big round of applause.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0478	That's my debt.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0509par0480	When are you gonna pay everybody back?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0481	But like someone else, I don't use it as an unnecessary occupation and giving messages to others, whether it's a second term or if it's an extra permit for me or not.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0510par0482	Zozani, Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0483	Right now, I'm Deputy Director of the AK PARTY Group. It is my duty to protect the rights and the law of the AK PARTY Group as long as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey works and my parliamentary position continues. My term is over, and my term of duty is over. I do not stand aside like some people do.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0511par0484	Who are they, who are they? We don't have it. Tell me, who are they? Who are they?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0485	Until June 7th, when 70 of our friends in the EC PARTY report to the election boards...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0511par0486	Who are some of them?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0487	You'll see the example, you'll see the example, you'll see the example.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0512par0488	You deserve to be a board member! A special task for you in the escaped palace...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0489	The AK PARTY is the righteous movement; if the EC PARTY is a member of the parliament, I'm at this party, and as soon as my parliamentary status is over, I'm done with this party. It doesn't mean that people in the EC PARTY act in this virtue. But I'm telling you, you're so insulting. Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Ayşe Nur, you've actually applied a mobbing here, but despite that, we've never occupied the bench. Right now, Mr. President, even though he's acting against the Civil Code and the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're just opening up a procedure debate, we're asking the President for our say-so. We didn't sit here, we didn't do a sit-down, and during the speech, I, as deputy chairman of the AK PARTY Group, was not pushed off the stand by other MPs during my speech on the call of the Speaker of Parliament, I wasn't punched by the deputy leader of the group, and we didn't punch anyone.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0513par0491	You didn't shake it? We didn't shake it. Don't say it!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0502par0492	AK PARTY is the movement of the righteous; AK PARTY is the movement of decent people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0514par0495	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0514par0497	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0498	Mr. Elitaş, we don't have a problem with definitions, Mr. President. There's no bullying like that, please... he looks at us like we're trouble, and he's picking on us again when he's making the description.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0514par0499	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0516par0500	What did he say?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0501	They're causing trouble. He said, he described parasite.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0517par0503	Mr. President, you've made a very good deal, congratulations, you're being very agreeable!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0505	Mr. Elitaş, you're not making the definitions right. Who's causing trouble? We just told you, take the reports, look. I'm asking you, dear friends, what were we arguing about before we started picking on you? It's about fixing by Article 58.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0518par0506	You're arguing against the law, that's all there is to it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0507	What did Mr. Elitas say then? He said, "Is there an application for this?" So I ask you: Most of you were here, and our friends took turns, and they corrected the things that were done here the other day at the hearing, according to 58. Now, who's causing trouble, who's causing trouble here? Parliament Speaker wants to enforce Article 58, in accordance with the Civil Code. Mr. Elitaş takes the word, shakes things up, provokes, and then we're the ones causing trouble. How does this work? Turn around, look, look, if you don't have Mustafa Elitas' signature on 80-90 percent of the controversial, quarrelling sessions here, I'm going to step back and apologize.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0519par0508	Yavuz is a thief...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0509	I'm telling you again, look, you're the one who's causing trouble when you come in here and argue with Mr. Gardenscapli and the others, and you don't even know what you're talking about after an hour. From now on, Mr. Sadik Yakut sits there, and if he doesn't know, let him go back and ask his hometown. Mr. Sadik was the one who applied 58, who was on duty, and how many times has he applied 58? Yeah, he's got a group of vice presidents with him, and he's not asking them.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0520par0510	Yeah, it says Internal Charter, Internal Charter. Why should he ask the faithful Yakut? There is a Civil Law.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0511	I mean, there's no need for that, there's no need to get up and argue about it. Something in the Civil Code, we don't obey without warning, the vice president listens at that moment, or the General Assembly puts it in play, or he continues to apply it if his opinion has not changed. There's nothing more natural. So, I repeat, we are not troublemakers here, but we are advocates of equal implementation of the Civil Code. And as Mr. Elitaş says, until we're finished, I hope we will continue, and we will continue your rights and your rights until the next term, when we come to power alone, we will defend your right of opposition again. It won't be Elitaş, but we've got friends who'll be here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0521par0513	You said the same thing in 2011, but it didn't work out.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0515par0514	We'll defend for them, too. God has a reckoning, and they shall all be paid in full. After June 8th, hopefully you'll see that you need that law in the 25th term, but we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, our friends, they may have different opinions, we'll say it's up to us. We'll welcome you with understanding. Good evening to you all.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0522par0516	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0523par0517	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0522par0518	Mr. Yeniçeri, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0523par0519	Now, when he explained this parasite, he made it official, based on the static of the radio. Now, whether he calls a congressman "parasite" or "parasitic" as a radio sizzle, that's not the word to say. So I'd like to answer that. There's bullying and international bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0522par0520	Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0523par0522	Now, very valuable MPs, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0524par0523	Teacher, tell me what frequency you're talking about first, shortwave or long wave?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0523par0524	I invite you to ethics, aesthetics, decency, and manners. Know your place of worship, and speak not from the right and from the left, but come forth, and speak here. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] My dear friends, now, let me make it very clear that there are special privileges on this bench for the members of the group, and that's what the Civil Code says. Therefore, they respond to attacks and insults from here. However, lawmakers also have the right to speak to such a generalized assessment of the lawmakers. In that regard, it's important to make it clear that the rights from the Civil Code are not being used to the MPs. Because the laws must go quickly, move forward, move quickly into the matter, and the power of lawmakers to express their opinions and to reveal their wills in a way that will be achieved. Now, what we call this parasite, let me be very clear, is that social psychology or sociology has something called the symbiotic community. You'll find out, we'll tell you, don't explode, you'll know when I tell you. (AK PARTY rankings) This is a semibiotic community, which, above all, means a double benefit. There's one parasite, one parasite, that goes into the thing, but it does one side of it, and the other one does another side of it. So this is the relationship between the Justice and Development Party and the PKK. So there's one thing in this relationship: you're taking advantage of the election process, the solution process, and the PKK is doing the process of stateisation. You both share a common advantage in various areas. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] It's important to say clearly that when you're doing an evaluation here, you're a little short on seeing people as insects. Or you're in opposition, and if you act as we say, we'll see everything right with you. If you say so, you're wrong. The question is, who has the truth, the truth, and the truth. I'm making it clear and clear. I challenge those who have the monopoly of truth, the monopoly of truth, and the monopoly of the Civil Law; let them come out, let them come, let us sit together, and discuss. In that regard, everyone's opinion must be included here in the system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, if you do not do so, you will be deserving of the objections that have been raised against you. I wanted to express that in particular. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You're always talking out there, instead of talking out there, let's go outside and talk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0525par0535	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Light has a demand to make amends according to 58, and I will do so.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0526par0537	I didn't fix it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0527par0538	Fair Zozani didn't do it according to 58, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0525par0539	I jumped. I'll give you my word after Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0543	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good night. Of course, after twelve o'clock at night, many congressmen who make speeches are forced to correct certain statements the next day. I'm here to correct a statement that I've made wrong, which I believe will lead to a misunderstanding. In the previous day's merger, there are AKP MPs who have written the epics of Mr. Davutoglu. I want to correct my sentence, which I have expressed as "The XXX" by Mr. Davutoglu. Because he told me at the group meeting that you were writing epics. Former Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said there were cops who wrote epics to the police after the Gezi incident, but all the cops who wrote epics went through this internal security bill that you passed, and I think you'll be going with another law soon. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the deputy member of the group has asked if this Article 58 has been implemented before. I would like to express to you personally that I have benefited from this clause on a few days when Mr. Faithful Yakut Bey was acting president. I said that the police are history because it's a substance that causes a lot of cops to become victims. However, based on information from the AKP Group, they said that the Republican People's Party Group's motion to remove the item from the bill, that it would be accepted, but you didn't surprise us as the AKP Group and as the government, you promised us first, then you said no. You said no. You victimized the police.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0529par0549	What cops did we victimize?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0550	Today, an unfortunate conversation has been witnessed by this great assembly. You'll see who did it later. This country...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0529par0551	The parallels have been victimized.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0552	Until yesterday, those police officers you called parallel were with you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0529par0553	So they weren't with you?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0554	He was with you, he was with you. Especially with you, especially with you. Dear lawmakers say this country does not know the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0530par0556	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0557	Here are the transcripts, I'm reading them: But there is nothing that prevents us from saying that this Constitution is a bad constitution, even though we do not know it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0531par0559	We don't know this fascist Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0560	He became Minister of the Constitution, and he will leave in two days. Without the papal law, the Constitution is tearing away. I'm returning this to him, saying I'm condemning him. A person sitting in the Ministry seat of the Republic of Turkey has no right to not recognize the Constitutional (EC PARTY) who is the Minister of the Ministry of Turkey. That's your understanding.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0532par0561	It's a bad Constitution, isn't it? Are you saying it's a good Constitution?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0528par0562	Here's the transcripts. Sir, read it, read it! Learn how to read and tell me what you understand! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what comes out of here. I urge you to correct this statement immediately and take it back. This Minister can't be the Home Secretary of this country. As of tomorrow, we will immediately resign...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0533par0567	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Zozani, why don't you go ahead, I just jumped in, correcting the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. In my speech on the proposal for our group regarding Article 33 in the 65th Union, we object to the regulation of the Molotov. There is a statement that says: "We wish that this would be corrected in this way: in essence, we express that the regulation of the law on the molotof is just a cover arrangement. The existing laws in Turkey do not require any regulation on the Molotov. Because the existing laws are considered Molotov firearms, and at the moment, there are people in Turkey's prisons who are serving up to 28 years in prison for throwing Molotoves. So, I was going to make a statement that such an arrangement does not need to be brought here, so there's just a statement there that says it's against Molotoving, which I object to. Now, look...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0535par0573	What combination?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0574	It's in the final joint.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0535par0575	You said 65.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0576	I'm talking about the final session of the 65th Unit, before the last session.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0536par0577	Then no, Mr. President, he can't take any promises about 65.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0535par0578	You can't make a promise about 65.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0579	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0536par0580	He can get it for 66.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0581	And let me tell you something else: I've come here by opening the Charter clause in front of me, assuming that you can make this objection, because you've brought us into the priesthood. Now, look, Mr. Elitaş has just made an appeal according to 58. We'll agree to a prisoner from somewhere, tell him to leave before he gets upset, but he doesn't really exist. What does 58 say? Regarding the previous merger, lawmakers have the right to correct in the first joint. It says, "There is no other expression." But he's objecting at a point where he's wrong. Look, the 65th Union held twelve sessions, twelve sessions; look, look at the transcripts, Mr. Elitaş. I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've looked, I've
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0537par0583	What combination are we in right now? What unit are we in?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0534par0584	Now, you will see that Mr. Serindağ has used his right to correct according to 58 put in the ninth session of the union, led by Mr. Faithful Yakut. Look, don't ever invade the agenda of the Grand Central Assembly like this again, please.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0538par0586	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0537par0587	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0538par0588	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0537par0589	Mr. President, I don't know what his petition is when the MP is speaking on the stand, but -- my speech at the 65th Union said, "I don't know what it is."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0538par0590	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0537par0591	That's the 67th Union you've made. If we're doing it according to Article 58, he needs to talk about the final report, so he has to do it in the 66th. And if you look at the friends in the Laws Decisions... I'm reading the reason for Article 58: don't talk about the last report. The discussion of the protocol with this clause will only be held in the previous report on the correction of a statement of its own, and at the beginning of the merger, not more than five minutes later. Mr. President, he's in league with the laws or the regulations. The reason is clear and clear, and at the beginning of the merger, it can only be done according to Article 58. Whichever congressional vice president did this, he did it wrong, but it's against the Civil Code. In that sense, I'm saying that if you look at the reason for the 58th article in the Civil Code, it should only be discussed at the beginning of the merger or even off the agenda. I present this information.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0595	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş, for enlightening me.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0540par0596	This is the application of the House, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0597	I'd like to make this right. It says in the 65th Union...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0541par0598	The number's wrong, it's about the last session.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0542par0599	It's about the last session.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0600	No, I just want to say, if you'll just listen for a minute...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0541par0601	Mr. President, the number is wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0602	Can I have your attention, please? There has been no 66, it's been opened and closed, and that's because there's been an interview in the next 65, so...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0543par0604	Mr. President, we talked about 65. Mr. President, that is the final session.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0605	You're very welcome. There's no discussion of an uninterviewed session. He'll probably fix the last one.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0544par0606	Mr. President, there has been no merger in 66.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0539par0607	We've had a formal discussion before, sir. Now, Mr. Yılmaz has a request for correction. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0545par0612	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to correct a statement from the last joint. I demand that the term "voice" and "accept" be replaced by "also."
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0546par0613	What a big mistake!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0545par0614	Yes, dear MPs, I will speak calmly now, Mr. Recep, if you don't speak ill of him... I want to make this clear. Look, one thing needs to be determined. When you said, "God forbid" the circumstances changed, you saw that the law was needed for all today. Look, the heart wants to protect the dignity of this House -- because this is a place where national will is represented -- it's our duty to protect it. Now, if we had properly enforced the Civil Code under the direction of the Justice and Development Party MPs, you would be entitled to address the Parliament today led by another parliamentary deputy, led by another party. But here, contrary to the Civil Code, although there are many things that shouldn't be, which would cloud the reputation of the House -- now, we're not saying this for this right-right thing -- we said here: Seven people were injured, and a discipline has to be executed about these things; whoever is right, whoever is wrong, has to be put on trial. Here's the opposition party, we're against this law, we're against certain provisions of this law, and the Civil Code has given the opposition some rights, and we're making an effort to stop it within the legal framework, using these rights to the end. That's all we're saying. That's all we're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0547par0616	Is there an invasion there? Is there an invasion of the podium there?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0545par0617	But you, sir, we don't impose the Civil Code on you. Look, Parliament Speakers -- look, think well -- it's the 14th day, it's the fifteenth day -- the Parliament Speakers who ruled the first two days -- were here, according to the Civil Charter, doing all of the opposition's rights from the Interior Charter, but from the President's Malatya, Elazığ, this law will either come out, or it will come out of Elazig. From the moment he said it, it was under the feet of the Civil Law, and from the moment it did not. I mean, the President can't give orders to this parliament, even if he was the former President of this party. Everybody needs the law. There you have it today. When it didn't work out for you here, we saw how it almost came to this point of rebellion (X) -- especially Elitaş. That's what the opposition's been going through for four years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll understand that when you fall into opposition tomorrow, June 8th. Hopefully, then you won't have a law that you're applying.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0548par0622	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0549par0623	You said, "God forbid, if the circumstances change." Even you don't believe it.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0550par0624	You said, "God forbid." Why?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0548par0626	Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner (Isparta) has a request in the same direction.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0551par0627	Mr. President, due to the tension of Mr. Elitas, I do not exercise my right to correct the situation. I'm protesting an attitude that's making this situation tense. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0548par0630	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulklu has a request to correct it according to 58. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0635	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0553par0636	Aren't you ever going to be telling the truth?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0637	In the last session, I said, "You're a sinner. You're a criminal against the law." I am correcting him, MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0554par0638	People will fix you in bulk.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0639	Really, you've made the country very difficult. Today's motion on the Home Secretary... does anyone have a child at the University of the Aegean? Does anybody have kids at the University of Marmara? Don't you have kids at language and history and geography? Can't you see that? No one's looking for you? We can't go to school, we can't take exams, take safety precautions.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0555par0640	Thanks to you, thanks to you.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0641	Why are you looking at so much partisans? This country belongs to all of us. Go to Aegean University, like Kandil, with PKK's emblems and pictures all over the place. Firat, our son was a martyr there.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0555par0642	Is that why you're against the law?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0643	Marmara University is the same way, go, they can't take exams. Work according to your ability, and do not make people shout.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0556par0645	Why are you against the law? Why do you object to the law?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0557par0646	Why are you defending the PKK?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0647	Here he comes, the Home Secretary can't defend himself. You'll have to answer for these, lawmakers. You approved the Home Secretary, he was supposed to answer here; he didn't do his duty. Today the PKK is in street construction in Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0557par0649	They're defending the PKK. He's talking to the PKK, they're making noise.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0650	There's no such thing as intelligence left in the Home Office. You said parallel, you drove everyone away. He doesn't know where he is or what's going on. In a very bad situation, contact a police commissioner, a manager, what is the state of the police? The black order is going. Everyone complains about each other, informing on someone they don't like, this parallelist. He became a spy minister. The Minister is here, not a parliamentary speaker, not an elected one, teaching the Parliament, clapping your hands.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0558par0651	You brought a minister from America. Where did you bring Kemal Dervis? You brought a minister, a minister from the United States?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0652	Seçil come, and then teach here, and he can't teach this House. That's how you accept it, that's how you take it; that's wrong. Do not dishonor the assembly, but preserve the dignity of the House. In your time, I assure you, at this time, this reputation has gone to the bottom.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0558par0653	Was he a Dervish MP?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0654	Look, you're not doing the Civil Code. The last time the main opposition party's deputy group is here, he can't take credit for what he's become.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0559par0655	What did he become? Wow!
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0656	I mean, who's he gonna complain to? A AKP Group clapping for the smallest thing, a sense that defies the rights of the opposition; that would not happen, precious MPs. Next year you'll sit there, we'll sit here.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0559par0657	For God's sake...
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0552par0658	You'll see, that's when you'll consider it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit08spe0560par0661	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0560par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Court of the Presidential Court will meet tomorrow following objections against Article 13 of the Civil Code. Therefore, there has been no change in my position that the bill should not continue its talks today. However, since I called the Commission and the government in the previous session and found its location, we will now resume negotiations on the bill. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (s) of Article 2 of Police Higher Education Law No. 25/4/2001, which has been replaced with the current 684 Numbered Bill of Laws (s). "S) Teachers: Academy, Police Chiefs Education Centre Directorate, institute, police vocational training centres, police universities of applied sciences and professors and professors in and out of police vocational schools. Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Kemalettin Yilmaz Rusar Demirel Adnan Şişek Güçük I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 34th edition of the current 684 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Celal Dinçer Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Ali Sarıbaş Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and That Article 1 of the First Amendment of the Constitution and Court of Law shall be removed from the bill because of the amendment of Article 34 of the Constitution and Articles of the Law, contrary to universal law norms and fundamental human rights, and that the only party, beyond the single-man-man dictatorship regime and the police state, should be removed from the bill due to violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Husamettin Zenderlioğlu İdris Baluken Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0561par0034	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0560par0035	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0562par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0560par0037	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0563par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, I want to thank you in particular for reminding us today that law can be run on this General Assembly table again during the talks of a bill that eliminates law in Turkey, in which law has been eliminated for two weeks. For the past two weeks, our demand was to meet the requirements of the Civil Code and run the law. Unfortunately, for two weeks, as I said, the Civil Code and the law have been put on the shelf here. And while you're just opening here, you're continuing the session about the law, about the Civil Code, about the fact that you're continuing the attitude you've made about it, but because of a minor mistake you made at the beginning of the session -- by being honest here -- you're continuing the session. We respect that. We're all human. There may be some mistakes. What's important is that we think about running the law, the Civil Code, here. We invite the AK PARTI Group to reconsider this arrangement, not only in the Assembly General Assembly, but in all the streets in Turkey, which will eliminate law in areas. When you came to power, when you received votes from this people, you said you came here representing a oppressed, outcast part of this society, you promised to protect the individual and society against the state. But the law you have now is the law of state protection against individuality and society. We wish you to return from this error as soon as possible. For that reason, I respectfully welcome the General Assembly, reminding you that we care that you immediately draw this law to the Commission and look for the reconciliation of other opposition parties in parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit09spe0564par0042	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-02sit10spe0564par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and Kırıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 45 MPs; Proposal of Law and Budget Commission Report on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there will be no commission after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (March 3rd 2015) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
