tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Before that, members of lawmakers, we're here with you in the final merger of the 24th Legislature of Turkey, where we've served with the spirit of the nation to implement ideas for the nation. Over the course of time, under this roof, sometimes the winds of joy surged in our hearts, sometimes blowing in our hearts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've always had the concern of becoming a Parliament with its ear and heart towards the nation, to be better understood and appreciated by our nation that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the center of attraction and power. When we used the authority of the people to resolve the nation's affairs, the more we felt the scourge of responsibility falling on our shoulders, the more we angered or angered each other. We have sometimes been arm-to-hand in this sacred place, turning our eyes from each other, sometimes our faces smiled at each other, even though we never wanted to, and sometimes our mind reflexes have become co-ordinated with our body language. Whatever the cause and the consequence, after all that has happened, a sincere legitimacy from the depths of our hearts, which are the center of loyalty, intelligence, and conscience, will ignore all these negatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every farewell is a beginning, especially when the date is not set. Veda, at the same time, broken words from a portal to eternity, watered and budded with love, lead to new hopes. Each of us has another voice, another choice, another wind, a beautiful Turkey, a different vein connected to the same heart, and when the sun rises and snow falls on our roads, we always need each other. This is the precondition for individual and social agreements that will keep the mental climate warm. As we send the best memories into the past, leaving the joy and joy of sadness and happiness at the centre of the nation's freedoms in Turkey's Great National Assembly, Turkey wishes success to my friends who will have a say in our country's fate in the coming period, I wish you all the best in peace, good-bye, good-bye, good-bye. [[AK PARTY's standing ovations from CHP, HHP and HDP's rows]] Thank you, God bless you. Thank you. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu who wants to talk about the industry and tourism of Kahramanmarash Province. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0002par0021	Mr. President, on March 21st, we had cars, buses that crashed as we arrived at the 11th Grand Assembly of the National Movement Party, which we had made in Ankara. I say to all of them, "Get well out of here. I pray for God's mercy to those who have lost their lives." We've had one of these in our Kahramanmarash organization. A bus crashed in Kayseri. Many of our friends were injured, and we lost Mustafa Paksoy, a friend of ours again. From here, I ask for God's mercy. My condolences to our organization and our Kahramanmarash, the Turkish nation, our fellow litigators, and to our wounded friends, I wish them a speedy recovery. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Kahramanmarash, one of the most beautiful cities in Turkey. At the same time, Heromarash, the only decorated city in the world, wrote a great heroic epic by outside forces trying to take over Kahramanmarash. At the same time, the people of Kahramanmarash are the heroic descendants of their grandfathers for their heroic deeds, and I salute them all from here, Kahramanmarash. For four years, I've been trying to bring up all of Kahramanmarash's problems from the legislature. I have performed all the duties of an opposition member of parliament with written and verbal proposals and parliamentary research proposals, but I regret to inform you that so far none of Kahramanmarash's problems have been solved, none of which have been solved, some investments that will make the people of Kahramanmarash happy, some investments that will raise their welfare levels, unfortunately. To put it briefly, here are our highways, our routes of connection, our boroughs, our roads connecting Kahramanmarash to the counties and the villages of the counties. We're at the end of Turkey's training, we're at the end of Turkey's health, we've reached the point where agriculture and animalism are no longer available, and unfortunately, from villages to districts and districts to city migration has begun. Our Afşin Elbistan thermal plant has a huge source of livelihood in our northern accidents -- many problems, unfortunately, they haven't been fulfilled either. At the same time, Kahramanmarash Airport was a cool airport that was built in 1991 as 940 meters, which the city people made with their own means, many parts of it, but it's the worst airport in Turkey. They said there'll be an Iron Road, a fast train coming. Unfortunately, he didn't come either. However, the underground sources of Kahramanmarash are in its historical beauty -- in what we call a unique historical beauty in the world -- still standing in the ground; they have not done their own work, they are going very slowly, they have not come to see it; they will come to see it; they will come to the country, outland, for inner tourism, for the economy. Besides, one of Kahramanmarash's biggest livelihoods is the jeweler's profession; it hasn't been uncovered, and in many parts of Turkey, handcrafts have not been introduced. Also, these shoes, which our brides wear to their engagements or weddings, are done in Kahramanmarash, unfortunately they haven't been introduced, and they're trying to do this production in a very bad place, our tradesmen. However, one of the biggest livelihoods in Kahramanmarash was our copper hand-processing, chrome teapot and copper pot, which unfortunately were not encouraged in the way they were asked, and were not able to work in the desired places, the Kahramanmarash and the Turkish economy were not helped in the way they were asked, and they were not encouraged. Again, there was no branding of our heromarash on fibers, fabrics, and knitting shirts, and the incentives could not be given to Kahramanmarash. After all, the people of Kahramanmarash are unhappy, the people of Kahramanmarash are waiting for help. In what sense? It is at the point of the incentives and at the point of reaching out to Kahramanmarash. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0004par0037	Mr. President, I've taken a promise out of the agenda regarding the beautiful city of Bitlis, in the valley. I hereby salute the High Council. Bitlis, the natural gate connecting the east to the southeast is a beautiful city built in the valley between the two rivers, a ball of masterpieces with its natural, historical and cultural assets. Castles, mausoleums, statues, taverns, baths, madrases and bridges... one of our rare cities that never loses its historical fabric, Bitlis. With five minarets, the Dissolution Medesesi is the favorite symbol of Bitlis. And here's the largest mausoleum in the Islamic world. The Ahlat Seljuklu Kabaristan is famous for its monuments. And then there's the cubes. Adil Bezavaz, Adil and Tatvan, covering the northwest part of Lake Van, is located on one side of Lake Van, and Mount Nemrod at the other end. It's a lucky hub for transportation, Bitlis. Bitlis comes forward with his honey. Lots of flowery plateaus bring out the perfect flavor. Do you know about mountain flowers? They're very rare flowers. It exhausts bees quite a bit, but it brings out such honey that you can't get enough to eat. The taste and smell are delicious. The grass cheese made with herbs in the mountains is the most famous flavor of Lake Van's pearl kephal, and the büryan kebab, which is made in steam with the roasting of meat in the closed tangy. Of course, we need to add the walnuts of Ahlat, Addizaz, Hizan, and Mutki. Bitlis is a city that exists in human history and exists in human relationships. God gave everything to Bitlis in terms of tourism. Gold beaches by Lake Van, Turkey's largest crater lake, healing hot springs, mineral beverages, great peak climbs and ski resorts... a city that's almost impossible. You want to swim, Van Lake is the most beautiful of the calm seas. No waves, no danger, no joy, no peace of mind. Tatvan, Ahlat and Fairmouth beaches are virgins, and they're perfect for you. The boutique hotels are quality and cheap. From the skirts of Nemrod, warm and cold waters gush forth from each other. One of the world's most healing drinking and spas is at gerroymak. You want to ski? The skirts of Nemrod, and the skirts of Sobhan, are perfect for winter sports. Another joy is the joy of skiing from the foothills of the world's second largest crater lake to Lake Van. You want to climb? Make your choice. If you say it's easy and easy, it's the Nemrod Summit. How would you like to take a day's walk around the crater lake, accompanied by endemic flowers and birds chirping? Adrenaline should be a little higher. If you say so, the mountain summit is perfect for you. You need two days to climb this wonderful summit of Turkey: one night camping, the next morning climbing. It's a great pleasure to reach the glacier lake at the top. You want to walk? By watching Lake Van, or in mysterious valleys? And the valleys of Hizan and Mutki, which are made into green, shall comfort you, and comfort you. Bitlis is based on cuisine, meat, fish, and bulwark. Rich cultures and traditions based on ages also manifest themselves in food. He has brought up precious individuals, historical beauty, human kindness and hospitality, the outstanding qualities of Bitlis. Don't look at the small population; don't say "small." A city like the beautiful valley is waiting for you, with its back on the high mountains. And every single-story Bitlis house made of red brown mold stone is a masterpiece. The richness of the past with art reflected in all of Bitlis' homes; another beautiful outside, another beautiful inside. Bitlis became a city of universities, starting with Seljukites, and has raised famous scholars in all fields of science for centuries. There were so many mosques and tribes made for Ahlat. Because of the abundance of the domes, the title given to Buhara is given to Bubart-ul Islam. On the banks of Lake Van, the "Ahlat" is an open-air museum with its natural beauty, as well as its historical works. Nature tourism, summer tourism, winter tourism, Bitlis tourism. We'll expect you all as soon as possible. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0005par0053	We'll be there if you invite us, brother. We're coming in August.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Malatya MP Ömer Faruk Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0007par0059	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the honorable lawmakers with the name of World Water Day. I hereby salute your high council. In 1992, at the United Nations Environment and Development Conference, it was important to mark and determine such a day as to draw attention to the water problem, along with increasing water resources and the number of useable clean water in the world. The value of water is understood only when the well is dried. Indeed, it is impossible to imagine life without water. Thinking about it, the Justice and Development Party's ruling government has invested nearly 65 billion, 65 quadrillion liras in water and water under forest and water from the day it came to power. Likewise, Malatya, my constituency, has invested over 850 trillion dollars. In this investment, our Turgut Özal Kapakaya Dam will be completed, now watered, and the irrigation canals will be built, hopefully, complete and fully completed, and watered by about 40,000 hectares within the next year. Again, the body of our Recai Kutan Boztepe Dam has been completed, the water has begun to be flooded, and the production of the irrigation channels as closed systems continues quickly, and hopefully within the next year, it will be completed and in the service. The tender for the Yoncan Dam has been completed for years, but later its tender has been cancelled and will cover a wider area with a new tender, and the construction of its watering systems as well as the dam, as well as the closed system of the Yoncan Dam. With the watering tunnel that's going to be in this area, I hope there'll be a lot of watering going on. Again, the company began its work. There was also a planning tender for the Cowpina Dam, located at the top of the gentleman's skin, and the company began its work. Hopefully, this year, he's come to the very end of planning a bid for a gentleman's-skin pond. With a dam built on Melet Creek, it will also be reinforced, especially in our Akcadağ region, by watering the crime and the sultan. Again, as part of the Lake, there was a tender for the Lakes of the Common, Early, Karachir, Býçır, Bullet, Elmalı, Ayvalı, Budkaklı and Karadere, and many of the construction works have come to a certain point. Again, now in the tender phase of the Hekimhan-Beautyurt-Karamahmut, Akçadağ-Tashevler, Darende-Cınarlı, Doğanşehir-Süğüt, Darende-Türenı and Darende-Ilıca and Hekimhan-Hasanchelebi, Puturge-Mir and Kubbedabak ponds and Isollu (Kale) are also working on the Boürün Lake. With the completion of these investments, at the present time, 18,000 hectares of agricultural land can be watered in Malatya, but with the completion of these, hopefully, 200,000 hectares will become irrigable. During our time in power, not only in the provinces of our country, but in Northern Cyprus, which is the Cube, the first system in the world to deliver about 70 million cubic metres of water from Anamur (80 km) from under the sea, is completed in Anamur, Cyprus, and Northern Cyprus will also have drinking and use water. I believe that this water will demand this water after it meets the needs of Northern Cyprus, because they are also suffering from water shortages. So this water, hopefully, will serve as peacekeeping water. Again, in the period of our rule, in many countries of Africa, at the point of meeting water, our people in need of water, in the heat of 50 degrees [50 degrees], the very important water channels are being opened through TİKA, and the arteries are being shot down, and they are getting water. Ben says that because of World Water Day, each of us has to show the necessary sensitivity to use water, the necessary attention, the need to be sensitive at the point of avoiding waste... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our nation to be as saintly as water, first of all, our representatives, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0008par0074	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk, you have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0009par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is March 26th, the Memorial Day of Balkan Martyrs. Born in Bulgaria, as President of the Friendship Group of Turkey-Bulgaria, and as a member of a family who migrated from there at the point of protecting their faith, language, culture... 1876-1879 from the Ottoman-Russian War of Plevne, Balkan Wars and Edirne during the war, we gave thousands of martyrs to protect our faith, to protect our country. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. Turkey will always be there for our brothers and sisters in the Balkans, as it was in the past, and we continue to give them all the support they need to live in peace. We, as the head of the Turkish-Bulgaria Friendship Group, are doing a lot of work on this, and we have a project. I ask God's mercy for the martyrs who lost their lives in these wars, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0010par0082	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you. Mr. President, I said yesterday was Balkan Martyrs' Day. Balkan wars, this drama, frankly, we've had these dramas. We have 300,000 martyrs. 20,000 of our soldiers were left without food or water in the palace. Today is a day in which our people in the Balkans, who have martyred the Balkans and who are the rightful owners of this land, this country, and who have nationalized this geography, suffer. I also honor our martyrs and the people of the Balkans and those who have made Anatolian their homeland in this way. God rest his soul. On such a day, the government felt it appropriate to open a synagogue during the Memorial Day of the Balkan Martyrs in Edirne, and to be frank, I offer it to our citizens. I think it would be more appropriate if, in this way, the government, on a day like this, only remembered the Balkan martyrs, these martyrs, had made its attempt to open a temple later on. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0013par0092	Mr. President, thank you. It's Balkan Martyrs Memorial Day. In the Balkan disaster, I thank and thank all the martyrs who lost their lives in that painful retreat and died on Balkan soil. There are many lessons to be learned from Balkan warfare. He must also speak of the defeats of history to today's generations. It's also instructive in the future to see that history is not just a glorious, triumphal page. I'm just saying a little detail about Balkan warfare today to teach you a lesson. One of the founders of impulse and terakki, Enver Paşa, who took Edirne back in a heroic act in that painful retreat in the Balkans. We all know that the same Enver Pasha was a hero who had noble and noble thoughts about the Turkish world and the Islamic world, and we all know how he was martyred in the Chegan hills, but we also know how the Yellowkamish tragedy was the leading man. When Enver Pasha walked under that snow, he held the frozen soldiers' hands, put them on his horse, took off his robe, clothed them, but in his summer gowns, he was the perpetrator of those people who had no logistical support to be buried under that white death. The lesson here is that being a hero and a noble isn't enough, it's also important to be smart. Enver Pasha was a hero, but romantic, Ataturk was a hero and a very rational man. They compare the two. Today's lesson is not only a romantic hero but also a political mind. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0014par0098	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0015par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. More than a hundred years ago, the Balkan wars we fought in 1911 and 1912 form one of the saddest, most tragic pages in our history. In the Balkan wars, we see the fall of the Ottoman Empire because of a struggle for independence against the Ottoman Empire by various nations that form the Ottoman Empire. In October 1912, from Adriatic to Çaktrak, the Ottoman Empire lost a total area of 170 thousand square metres, and with the loss of this area, hundreds of thousands of people living in their homeland began to migrate towards Turkey, Anatolia. This struggle against the Ottoman Empire has faced extraordinary resistance in Çazca, when armies who raised the flag of rebellion against the Ottoman Empire came all the way to Çakca to invade our lands. We can say that the foundations of the Çanakkale spirit in 1915 were laid in the Resistance of the Fork in 1912. The resistance in the Forkca was perhaps the foundation of Lausanne, as well as of the Republic of Turkey. With the Çanakkale wars, followed by the establishment of the Grand National Assembly and then 29 October 1923, the foundation of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey is a war, such as the Balkan Wars, which is very painful, very tragic. Hundreds of thousands of our people have been martyred in these wars. On a day like this, I remember these people, our people, our martyrs, our people, who died in those years who made this land our homeland, our people who died of sickness, sickness, exile, the journey, the cold, with mercy and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0016par0105	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0017par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the AKP government continues to set sail for a number of practices that will bring our country to great perils both in foreign policy and domestic policy. In particular, we have repeatedly expressed in the General Assembly the wrongs that have been done in foreign policy so far. In Syria, more Sunni had made Turkey a part of the actual war in the Middle East, a foreign policy based on a sectarian line. The entire Middle Eastern policy -- in particular with Syria -- actually, as of today -- was bankrupt. Instead of learning from all these bankruptcys, however, the AKP government continues to drag the country on new adventures through this wrong, sectarian attitude. Today, the State Department issued a statement regarding the crisis that broke out in Yemen. In Yemen, Turkey clearly declared its party to the sectal war between Saudi Arabia and Iran behind the scenes. In fact, along with this ad, the Middle East has declared to the world that it is still in the position of a continuation of dangerous sectal warfare that has brought the peoples face-to-face, the wrongs that it has done in Syrian policy. This is the first major contradiction. The second major contradiction is: In this equation in Yemen, we also know that the Egyptian government, which the AKP government calls "the coup artist," was a serious contribution to Egypt's coup junta. The AKP also met with this junta administration in Egypt. So far, we're condemning any explanations to the House. It is vital that the State Department immediately inform the General Assembly of such developments that will bring the country to the brink of war, perhaps slaughter the peoples, trigger a long war, and that other political party groups will appeal to their views on this matter. From the beginning, we say that the democratic future of the Middle East was to respect the will of the people, to avoid interethnic, religious, religious conflict, and to build a democratic future on the perspective of a democratic nation. Today we continue to insist. Therefore, we say that the AKP government must give up this error and inform the Parliament as soon as possible. There's also an internal policy reflection. Especially after the president's apology speech, which means self-criticism to the military, there's a lot going on inside. The Chief of Staff and General Staff are at antidemocratic exits, which will mean political intervention, which will remind again of the association of former military custody. However, along with these exits, the Joint Chiefs have an operation prepared throughout the region. In recent operations in Mardin and Hakkari, there have also been several conflicts. So we're dealing with a government practice that takes tension, war, conflict, practice in both foreign policy and domestic politics. We find it extremely dangerous. As the People's Democratic Party, we warn AKP from today. Because of the war, the conflict, this country has paid great prices, suffered great pain. If this attitude continues, I'm afraid we may be able to come to a threshold where there will be a great deal of difficulty, a lot of hardship for the democratic future of the country. I say we warn the government about this again, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0018par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0019par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0018par0115	I will, Mr. Botanci, just a second. Mr. Sait...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0020par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Balkan Martyrs Memorial Day. And I hereby tenderly and gratefully remember all Balkan martyrs. The Balkans are a truly important place to learn, an important place. With my family coming from the Balkans, it's important, and I want to remind you here that the Balkans are now boiling in turmoil; there is still confusion in Kosovo, confusion in Albania, continuing in Macedonia, and the same problems continue. But all of this is a signal that we need to be united, united. The government of the Republic of Turkey offers great services in the Balkans with the TRT, with the State of Turkey, with the State of Turkey, with Jonah Emreyle, with the Language, with the President of the Foreign Turks. And that's what it pays for. I, on this occasion, would like to speak of the Balkans, especially Fevzi Çakmak, Mehmet Akif, Ataturk, all of them with mercy. I ask God's mercy for all Balkan martyrs. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0021par0123	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0022par0126	Mr. President, I've listened to Mr. Baluken's explanations with awe and sadness. The politics of the EC PARTY in the region are very clear and not religiously based. WHEN we looked at his approach to the Middle East during his recent stay in power, his relationship with Iran and Syria were not based on the religion, but on basic human values. So, in the context of these references, sometimes it's close, sometimes it's distant. If he had a cult-based approach, it would have been a constant and stable approach to hostility, which would have never come across such foreign policy during the AK PARTI rule, he would know it himself. How close were we to Syria until yesterday? That's a lot of criticism here. As for Yemen, in Yemen, contrary to the UN Security Council Resolution 2201, and agreements reached in Yemen, Husiler, one of the key perpetrators of the events, had committed incidents against the current President of the Republic of Turkey, the capital he declared in Eden, and they did not comply with the decisions. The internal turmoil in Yemen is not today's work; Yemen has long faced such problems. There is an operation in the direction of UN decisions, which allied about 10 countries against the Husi. Iran objects to that, too. It is the decision of the United Nations Security Council supported by Turkey, a decision with international legitimacy. Mr. Bauken should know that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0023par0131	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0024par0134	Mr. President, I've made it very clear that we're asking the State Department for an update on the situation that will drive the country into a major fire. So I say here, Mr. Naci Bostancı, that we find it in no way satisfactory that Mr. Naci Bostancı put himself in the position of a government official or put himself in the position that the State Department should have made its statement, and that we continue to insist on it. On the other hand, I leave it to our people to appreciate the criticism he's developed about the views I've expressed. Our best people and all the world's people appreciate what the AKP policy of the Middle East and Syria is progressing on. The whole world knows how the groups they have supported in Syria, especially recently in the Middle East, have been involved in the massacres in Syria, and it's not a secret. All of this is a disaster caused by a cult-axis foreign policy by the AKP government. Today's situation is also grave: Look, there are some very bad news that have been in the press since yesterday. We've been reading news from the press since yesterday that a Turkish drone had been shot down in Syria, and again, a major missile attack occurred in Reyhanlı. With the foreign policy led by the Turkish AKP's government, our people, the people of the Middle Eastern peoples, a war... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he continues to insist on taking on his wife. It's imperative that the government and the State Department come and inform the Parliament when it's in such a dire situation.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0025par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0024par0140	We're not interested in the personal opinion of the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0025par0141	The government official is here, sir. He's been on the books, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0024par0143	We're looking for an institutional position to inform the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0025par0147	And we, the Presidential Court, remember those who were martyred in the Balkan Wars with mercy and gratitude, that places should be a paradise. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Subakut Sklerozan Panensephalit (SSPE) is a condition that appears in the central nervous system after measles and melts the brain as it moves very slowly. In virtually every phenomenon, this disease results in death. However, measles is a preventable disease with a vaccine. In our country, it is a need to investigate the condition of children and their families who are suffering from this disease, to improve the condition of families who are struggling with it. Compromising and encouraging measures must be made to support the creation of healthy information on keeping statistical information and reporting and the construction of scientific research. Under these grounds, we propose and propose the opening of the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, 98th, TBM Institution, and 105th, to determine the problems of these patients, to facilitate their lives, and to determine the social and economic needs of their families. With all due respect. [[Mersin]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Ardahan]] [[İzmir]] [[Sinop]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzincan]] [[Amasya]] 18) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 20) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] Health care should be planned by means of the principle of social state to protect people's health, to provide treatment and to improve their health when necessary. Taking all measures to protect our people from illness is a duty the Constitution has given the state. Despite the basic rights shown in our constitution, health care has been transformed from a ten-year sense of service in AKP power to an understanding of sectors and profits. However, the basic element in health care should be human. While 95 per cent of SSPE patients are lost, those who overcome the disease and continue to live carry heavy neurological patterns. This incurable disease slowly leads the patient to the expected end. SSPE patients in our country are known to have problems stemming from various practices. These problems begin with recognition and detection of the disease. The SSPE patient's sick report is long in the existing health system, and the Social Security Agency is causing various difficulties regarding the reports and ignoring the unrecycled features of this group. It is important for families living on the edge of poverty that citizens can sometimes travel 150 to 200km to reach relevant clinics, wait days during examinations, examinations, and reports. Parents who have to devote themselves to child care are struggling between hospital reporting procedures, court guardianship procedures, children's regular day care. Parents can't spend their time, their resources, their time on this subject, their time on other children and themselves socially. Another problem is that some hospitals do not take patients to hospitals from time to time so that they do not occupy beds in intensive care units because they are a non-profit group. The need for child health and disease specialists, child neurologists, physical therapists, children's intensive care, dentists and psychiatrists is found. For these reasons, the establishment of SSPE hospitals, clinics, clinics should be discussed in areas where the disease is dense. SSPE Patients need to be identified with how much help they can be in implementing the Home Health Services Programme. As you can see, parliamentary research is required to identify and address the problems of patients and families of the SSPE, who have several issues, including administrative, social and medical issues. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Occupational illness, and occupational illness are at the top of the problems of working life. In response to the number of workers in our country, the number of occupational diseases is very low according to official data and is far behind European standards. I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105, in order to develop the recognition and detection of occupational diseases, to investigate all aspects of the measures and solutions to prevent occupational disease in working life. Occupational illness is a work-related disease. Occupational illness is often a chronic disease and is caused by long - term influence. Therefore, the definition of occupational illness should include working in some professions, as well as working in a particular workplace for a long time. In our country, the Social Insurance Health Trade Charter, which adheres to the SEC and this law, defines occupational illness as: "The conditions of temporary or permanent illness, disability, and spiritual failure, according to the nature of the work which is under insurance. " In a conceptual sense, the date when a person starts doing any work must be accepted as the beginning date of occupational illness. Living in a community, specializing in the production of goods and services should naturally reveal occupations and occupational diseases. A few days of the year, the person who weaves his own fabric is not expected to encounter muscles, skeletons, joints problems, but the person who specializes and weaves fabrics throughout the entire community is expected to suffer from muscle, skeletal, joint diseases. However, the attention of occupational illness and the transfer of it to written records is when one becomes operational for another, for another. The complexity of the production tools, increasingly single-handed, has made human labor affordable. With the emergence of the working and working concepts, business law norms began to form, and business accidents, occupational illness, have become one of the major debates in this area. In this period, when employers who run weavers and buy their labors are found, there are bilateral rights from working-work relationships with the employer and weavers who work with him, and those rights include natural protection from health-delaying risks. Before this period and when the weaver working on its own account tends to be considered a natural result of muscle, skeletal, joint disorders, it is considered to be the responsibility of those who have production tools, not at the beginning of this period. Turkey has 5,800,000 insured and has at least 30 million employees in the country. The number of occupational diseases in the SEC statistics has been 1,000-1 over the past five years. At 250, it has landed at 800, 600 and 400 in recent years. This number is too low to show the real situation. The number of people insured in Belgium is close to our number. The number of occupational diseases is 5,800-6. It's about 000. The number is around 84,000 in Germany, 280,000 in the United States, 44,000 in Italy. This shows that occupational illness is not recognized or discovered in our country. However, over 6,000 cases of disability and more than 2,000 deaths a year are caused by occupational illness. Work-related diseases and occupational diseases are preventable. Establishing correct detection mechanisms will be the first step in preventing occupational illness. It is clear that with new and secure technologies being used, training activities, increasing legal sanctions, the creation of occupational health and safety policies at workplaces, non-registered, uninsured employees, non-healthy employees in employment examinations, not being hired to do so, while the work hours are being organised according to the times specified in the Work Act, the workplace will be safer for employees after this. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The recent military suicides are not off the agenda of our country. Looking at the numbers, 818 soldiers have died in the fight against terrorism in the last ten years, 934 of our soldiers have committed suicide in the barracks in the same time. The number of suicides is past the number of martyrs. Therefore, we respectfully request and ask that the investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsequent Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate the reasons that brought the soldiers to the point of suicide and to be known for the prevention of future suicides. 04/12/2012 [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Lug]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Tripoli]] 10) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 15) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Suspicion of military deaths within the Turkish Armed Forces over the past 15 years have been increasing since the first months of 2007. According to media reports, 252 deaths occurred in the barracks from 2010 to July 2012, in 2007, in 23rd, 2008, 20th and the first week of October 2009. As 175 of these deaths were recorded as suicides, four were killed by lightning, and 16 were killed in car accidents, 30 were killed in gun accidents, 27 were killed in barracks, such as fall, crash, and electrocution. There were only 43 suicides in 2012. In the past decade, the average suicides have been committed by 100 soldiers, and the suicides continue with a constant increase in momentum. Between 2002 and 2012, 818 soldiers were killed in the fight against terrorism, while 934 of our soldiers committed suicide in the barracks. The number of suicides is past the number of martyrs. This is unacceptable. 20-year-old Private Mert Evin Akdağ, who served in the military house in Bergama district of İzmir, hanged himself by hanging him with a tie tied to the iron in his ward. Many suspected soldiers have died in recent months, and the number of soldiers who died as a result of such incidents is unknown. The families of the dead soldiers have been made conflicting statements to their families, and in certain cases of suicides, there have been reports of the soldier being shot in the back, military reports and hospital reports not compatible, often being buried without being shown to their families, and our citizens' doubts have increased. We respectfully request and ask that the investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to demoralise the psychology of the soldiers, to investigate the reasons that led them to the point of suicide, and to prevent and know what had to be done. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a geneorization, which has been published today and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Dollars are rising fast, T.C. Because of the intervention of the Central Bank, the risk of the economy due to political instability, the Deputy Prime Minister for General Co-ordination on Economic Matters, we propose and propose that the Constitution be opened under Article 106. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's interest fight with the Central Bank began to break the record of the dollar that peaked as a result of the government's lack of clarity, silence and lack of effective measures. It also became feared that Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan and Central Bank President Erdem Prime Minister would resign and that the Prime Minister did not attend the Centre meeting due to health problems. Although statements of denial and "at the beginning of the mission" of the Prime Minister came from abroad and US Central Bank's critical interest decision was added to the process, the dollar began to see 3-4 peaks in one day. The currency weapon, which the Central Bank agreed to increase daily, was not enough to put out the fire of the dollar. The dollar, which peaked at 2.5 levels, reached its highest peak, with 2.62 levels, rather than the expected decline, after 60 million dollars that the Centre had put on the market. The open position of the real sector is 180 billion dollars while the company balance sheet is damaged. Here, a 10 per cent increase in currency will have a Turkish lira effect for $18 billion. Which means roughly $35-40 billion in damages will be reflected in the balance sheet. This market also appears to have suffered indirect losses due to exporters importing interim goods. Turkey has achieved lower inflation in 2015 due to low oil prices, but the possible hard interest reduction causes devaluation in current fluctuations. Based on the latest rise in the TCMB dollar, last year, interest increases, prevents the rise in dollars and a devaluation prevents the crisis, but in the coming days, new crises are at hand. The loss of the dollar strengthens the competition of Turkey's manufacturer in a negative way -- the external value of TL and the continuation of inflation -- the loss of the TL's internal value. That's a serious risk for next semester. Also, the current Turkish lira interest rates are not appealing to foreign investors. In fact, the current interest rates are not enough to invest Turkish lira in this international conjunctural with this current current current account deficit. The exchange rate in Turkey is more of an internal instability in Turkey, but 2.50 is a psychological frontier. If the plain citizen expects the dollar to go up, he'll go up anyway. Even those with small savings go and try to beat it up. The currency reserves of the Central Bank are very limited. Turkey's net currency reserves are a little over $40 billion. And when there's a demand for a exchange, this ammunition could run out in no time. In particular, in 2010-2013, companies who are in debt without account, raising their foreign currency debt are looking forward to a very difficult time this year. At the low rate of dollars, companies who were borrowed by foreign currency increased their debt in dollars in exchange for a fast-valued currency after 2013. Even at the end of 2013 alone, $390 billion in foreign debt was $862 billion in TL, and as of February 9, 2015, the debt was raised to $967 billion, and the 226 billion in currency difference was increased. The debt burden of dollars increased by 33 per cent in just 14 months is a nightmare of many industry and service companies. The increase of every cent of the dollar dry going up has led to an increase in the debt stock of $4 billion, as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, pressuring the Central Bank of Turkey on the interest reduction. In Turkey, which is the foremost among the five-percent among G-20, the country has been put at risk as a result of the wrong economic policies, inflation and unemployment have increased, it has lost its value of TL, and the country has been put at risk. Due to poor governance of the economy, we propose and propose that Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, the General Co-ordinating Officer in Economics, be opened up. It has been presented to your knowledge. The day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be on the agenda will then be submitted to your approval by the Council of Counsellor's recommendation. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/3/2015 meeting Thursday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 22 May 2013, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan (3414 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry motion, which was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for "researching the problems of the people of Çerkes," has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information and read in the presentations Thursday (26/3/2015) and held in the same dated combination of the talks. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0026par0315	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made as Peoples' Democratic Party for the establishment of the Parliament's research commission to investigate the problems the Circiscans face and to study the solutions to these problems. I salute the General Assembly. The Circessians were one of the native peoples of Caucasian geography and lived on this land for many years. However, the Circessians have had to defend their country and independence against brutal attacks throughout their history. Up until the 18th century, when Tsarial Russia launched attacks, the Circics resisted all invaders, protecting their historical culture in their own country. However, after their defeat in the mid-19th century, they were exiled to foreign lands in large numbers. The exile of the Circile people is one of the greatest exiles of modern times. Dear lawmakers, the majority of the population has been exiled and a significant part of the exiles have disappeared from hunger and disease in exile. Survivors of exile are distributed to different countries. Despite all the suffering and hardship, the Circessians have survived as a community. Today, while working to establish and develop close ties between their motherland and diaspora, the Circissians want only to protect their culture, speak their language, speak their language, live in original and peaceful ways. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, on 21 May 1864, faced the most tragic, cruel end in human history after the Caucasus-Russian war. Even though the events are described as ephemeral, they are genocide in terms of the consequences. Because the people who lost 500,000 people in the Russian war were exiled to Ottoman lands after the war. According to historical records, 1.5 million people were taken from their homeland and sent to almost four continents. The Circessians, who were subjected to an intercontinental exile, have been homesick from the moment they set foot on Ottoman soil. Moreover, the policies of exile and relocation have long gone on. The esteemed MPs, Jordan, Syria, Egypt, Palestine, Lebanon, and the Balkans, are one of the people of history who suffered a great deal. As these people are forced to leave their lands, they are forced not only to leave their land, their homes, but also to abandon their language, their faith, their culture, because the land in which the people are exiled, their exiles, will only accept it when they are like themselves, their language, their culture, their faith. As a result of this imposition, since there is not a single person left who speaks Ubih, which has been made up of nooses for centuries, he is actually among dead languages, not only taught and spread, but is forbidden to speak. Again, many Caucasus languages are dying because of the imposition. There is no doubt that the pain and longings of the people who are trying to abandon their language, their traditions, their homes, and what they have and what they have and what they have and what they have saved, and what they are trying to hold on to in other lands. However, instead of giving him the right to live in a brotherly and equal manner with another belief, a language, a culture, a people's pain and longing for him to live purely by his identity. The pressure policy of the rulings who hold power in every exile they go to destroys all their values along with a public. Therefore, hearing the demands of the Caucasian people and resolving these demands is a necessary condition of democracy. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been forced to forget their language, their names, their identities, and their lives as well as the other peoples in Anatolia who have fought for an equal and free life in the founding stage of the republic. Moreover, it continues to appear in textbooks in many history books by being discredited by the reputation of Circeçe Ethhem, who contributed to the formation of the republic and directed all its people's power to this war. Throughout the history of the Republic, assimilation policies have continued, and the Circics have been described to students in schools as an arm of the Turks. Dear lawmakers, the Circics now live in around 40 countries around the world. The population of Ubih, Abaza and Adigites in Turkey is much more numerous than those who live in ancient territory. Today, most of the Circes live in Turkey. In 1908, when the Circessians announced the declaration of Second Legislature in İstanbul, the closing of the associations and school in the Republic of Istanbul, the branding of Cerket Ethhem, the exile of the Circumstrian villages in Gören Manyas, which began in December 1922, was carried out in villages, "Speak Turkish." Their activities have been implemented in denial and assimilation policies with non-existent Turkish surname laws and similar initiatives. Like other peoples in Turkey, the Circessians have been victims of denial and assimilation policies. All collective rights must be recognised and removed so that all the different identities living in Turkey can live and live their language, culture, identity, and all the legal barriers that exist. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Circissians who live in Turkey, like all the communities on earth, want to live and protect their identities. The cyclic community and its culture have had significant contributions to Turkey's culture, and it will continue to be. It is clear that the development of the Circece people, whose identity and culture are protected, who are continuing their relations with the Caucasus, will be a significant contribution to Turkey's cultural, economic, social and political development. In addition, the maintenance of the identity and culture of the Turkish Circes is a requirement of democracy and human rights, and it is one of the basic responsibilities of the state to its citizens. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers must be prepared in accordance with universal norms, a civil, modern constitution based on basic rights and freedoms to address the problems of the Circissians, along with other peoples living in Turkey, and all bans that prevent citizens from living their language, religion, and culture as they please. All international contracts that guarantee the development of human rights and language and cultural rights must be approved and implemented without hesitation. Any obstacle to the expression and survival of the Circile identity must be eliminated, as a society and culture, and the presence of the Circics must be accepted. The Circiles must be able to name their settlements by any name, and the Circece villages must be given their old names back. There must be an active struggle with discrimination and all kinds of racism, especially from textbooks, all expressions that promote discrimination and hatred on the basis of language, religion, ethnicity. Mr. President, the state must be in a position not only to allow citizens to protect their language and culture, but to support it. In this context, support should be provided for all NGOs operating on the protection and development of Circican culture. Dear MPs, May 21st should be regarded as the symbolic history of genocide and exile of the Circumstrians, and this historical truth should be recognized. They are historically entitled to return to their homeland because they were forced out of their homeland. The agreements with Russia must also be made, and the ties with the Turkish Cypriot homes must be made legally. The northern Caucasus Republics, with relatives of the Circissians living in Turkey, should be developed in economic and cultural relations with Adigey, Karachay-Cerkes and the Kabardy-Balkar Republics, and should be supported in this sense by our citizens who have settled in or started business in northern Caucasus. Dear lawmakers expect all political parties to support our motion to investigate and identify the challenges of the Circessians living in Turkey's social and social life and to determine the measures to be taken, and to pay their respects to the General Assembly again, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0027par0332	Thank you. It's Recep Special, Isparta MP who's asking for a word against the proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0028par0336	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love. I have made a commitment to Turkey on the basis of the Council's motion to open a study of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and 105, in order to determine the necessary solutions to the problems of the People's Democratic Party, who were expelled from Turkey on 21 May 1864. Of course, it's impossible to disagree with what the HDP group spokesman had just spoken about, but we agree with them greatly. In fact, at that time, the Russians called it an exodus, but it was witnessed by almost a million people to the point of genocide, a historical event that was immigrated, and that was noted in history. May 21, 1864 is the day the Caucasians were defeated by the Tsarial Russia after years of honorable resistance. As a result of this war, 1 million people were genocided and exiled to Ottoman lands. The Caucasus Eagle Sheikh Shamil has fought the bloodiest battles in history, despite his limited resources, has fought the most glorious resistance against the Russians for many years. In our country and in the world, various Caucasus clans and organizations try to remember this day of genocide and exile every year on May 21st and try not to forget humanity and history. This motion, issued by HDP People's Party (HDP), was dated May 22, 2013, about two years ago. On the grounds, initiatives were demanded by the Olympic Committee against the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia, and they were asked to do so as well. Two years have passed, and by the way, in Sochi, these Olympics, unfortunately, have happened, and there was probably not enough reaction back then. We know that the people of Circessia suffered a great deal there.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0029par0342	You didn't follow it, HDP reacted enough, you supported it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0028par0343	In that land, they remember their own past history. And it has been a real pain for them to have the Olympics there as a symbol of peace. This might have been on the agenda two years ago, but it was taken today. Over there, next week, we'll end the House, hopefully, and we'll come to the stage of a hand-me-down. Let us be insensitive to these issues, to the problems of the Circics living in Turkey. There is no such thing. Just as a Turk, a Kurd, Cerkek, Tatar have equal civil rights, they have the same civil rights as our citizens, but if there's one flaw, a breach, I say it's our priority to eliminate them. There's no way anyone here under the roof of Congress could be against the motion to investigate Congress.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0030par0346	Then back me up.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0028par0347	But the next process, which we're going to conclude in a week, requires me to talk as much as I do, which requires me to talk so much about the Council inquiry motion. So I thank you for bringing it up, sir, to the highest commendations of the House.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0031par0350	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0032par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0031par0352	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0032par0353	During his speech, Mr. Orator considered the fact that a motion that we brought up in 2013 was brought here to the General Assembly today a little bit, in timing, as a conscious thing.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0033par0354	I said it was an Olympics.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0034par0355	You're teasing me, Recep, now you're talking!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0035par0356	Yeah, he's not gonna say anything?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0036par0357	At the same time, Sochi expressed that we did not have enough attitude as a party about the Olympics, which we had written for the cause.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0035par0358	He never said that.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0037par0359	No, I never said that.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0035par0360	On the contrary, he said.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0038par0361	No, no, it's about the Olympics.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0037par0362	I said I agree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0039par0363	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0038par0366	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In the last month, the AK PARTY Group has begun to have a complete theatrical approach to the suggestions we've brought to this House. So the proposal is right, everything in it is true, and we agree, but because there is no time, we cannot participate because there is important work in the General Assembly. For one thing, it's shameful, so this attitude towards opposition parties is far from serious. You don't realize you've been in power for thirteen years. While we are recommending recognition of the Circician language, constitutional security, assimilation over the Circian peoples here, we are actually exposing policies about you not doing anything in 13 years. If you've given up on these policies, you come here, at the point of constitutional security in the new era, you make it clear what can be done at the point of the survival of languages and cultures; this is the first. Second: The criticism of this Sochi Olympics is highly inappropriate. At that time, we gave the Parliamentary General Assembly a motion to investigate, as well as the co-Chair in our group talks, and we invited Turkey to boycott these Olympics, and even the State Department to actively explain against them. We've repeatedly expressed how offending it is to the people of Circece and all the peoples of Caucasus to have an event in the land where millions of people have been subjected to genocide. I wish you wouldn't have acted like the State Department that day and come in today and made such unjust accusations. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0040par0371	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0041par0378	Mr. President, a motion by the HDP Group on the basis of an incident that took place on May 21, 1864, a motion by the HDP Group on recognition of genocide, the restoration of the reputation of Circeçe Ethem, the fulfillment of the interests of the Cypriots to return to the main home, the prevention of the Olympic Committee's decision on the initiative of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Soci. Now, of course, the 2014 Winter Olympics, mentioned in the Olympic Committee's decision, have passed. The motion, I think, mentions it because it was given in 2013. Here, first of all, as we begin my words, I would like to say that we, the Republican People's Party, openly say that we are opposed to the fact that historical and historically historical events have been carried out as a subject of political abuse and investigation by politicians -- no matter who it may be -- have been. The issue is that the right or injustice of events in history be judged by the circumstances in that framework. That, above all, is the duty of historians. A hundred and fifty years later, there are problems today, problems before that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when we look here, for example, it's a problem that Americans destroy Indians; the French have killed 2 million Algerians, they have never apologized. And I think that's important. Now, what's the matter here? The issue is: 1827-1829 Ottoman-Russian Wars, 1787-1792, at the end of the Ottoman-Russian Wars, the fate of the Cypriots, in fact, is changing their policies radically, leaving the Edirne Agreement to Russia. Tzar I. Nikola says that there are only two options for the people of the region, which he calls the Caucasus Special Corps Commander Count Paskevic: one is to obey the mountain people forever, and the other is to destroy those who disobey. Between 1837 and 1839, after the construction of castles and outposts along the Kuban River and its branches, the Western Adites are cut off from the outside world. Therefore, in the 1839 famine, the region's people are in real harm and in the 1840s, the axed Russian soldiers are destroying all the mountains' vineyards and gardens. During the Crimean War of 1853-1856, when the Russians try to get help from the Ottomans and the British to avoid losing their land, their reaction becomes more severe. In the winter of 1857, Adagum's Russian troops destroyed the Natukhay hunts, looting the mountain people's goods, looting their livestock, wrecking villages, and thousands of mountaineers were taken captive. Sheikh Shamil is captured, and in the end, after the capture of Sheikh Shamil, the legendary and political leader, truly Sheikh Shamil of the Circics, Russia turns all its attention to Adige, Abacia, Ubih. The first step is to send General Melikov (General Melikov) to İstanbul in 1860. As a result of the agreement with Abdulmecit (Abducit), a memorandum of understanding is signed for Muslim Caucasians to migrate into Ottoman lands in small groups and parties. This agreement is used to support the Russian thesis that in the years to come, the Circics left their country voluntarily, not by Russia's compulsion. In 1861, the second step is being taken. Tzar II. Aleksandr comes to Çerkesya and offers the Circissaries two options: Either they will drop the weapons and settle in the marshland of Don on the left side of the Kuban River, or they will be exiled to Ottoman lands; and the Russians and the Caucasians will dwell in the places that have been emptied. Dear MPs, actually, Kefken and Babali beaches are the home of the Circissans. When we look at these events without being a prisoner of historical events, it is really forbidden the mountainers to migrate by land so that they do not actually carry the heavy weight of their assets and their flocks, so the exiles are heading against the shores of the Black Sea. When we look at it in this sense, the expression of the survival of the people of Circeçe, in fact, is a resistance, a rebellion, a resurrection, the struggle to re-exist against all the oppressors. Dear lawmakers, when we look at it, 1.5 million Circiks, who are actually fighting heroically to protect their ancestor's land from foreign invasion, are forced to leave the land where he was born, even though he had no faults. About a third of them are lost in the harsh waters of the Black Sea, and they die when they are forced to go ashore. Those who can get to our shores and survive, they expect great challenges, challenges. But before they overcome all difficulties, they cling to these beaches, sustaining their existence. Later, they settled in various regions of Anatolia, building new lands, taking root there, and becoming a respected part of the Turkish nation. Aren't the Circissians suffering from new lands they've settled in? Yes, they are. Do they not face difficulties? Yes, they do. Unfortunately, they're going through a lot of trouble, they're going through a lot of trouble, they're being treated that they don't deserve, but they're living in this country as good people, good citizens. We must not forget the contributions made by the Circics, who supported Ataturk, in the national struggle and in the founding of the republic. There have been some sad events in our history. For example, all our brothers and sisters remember the Circezian Ethem incident. Some of the statements in the school books about that incident, of course, are upsetting, hurting the Circician community. But our brothers and sisters in Circeza showed their maturity to put the troubles into them, and they never deviated from the republic's goals of becoming good model citizens. They weren't held captive by certain events in history. They've always looked forward, leaving history to historians. They didn't have feelings of hatred or hatred. Under no circumstances did they resort to violence. They've never chosen to resort to force, to arms to gain their rights. They were peacemakers. The armed struggle wasn't in their vocabulary. They sought a solution to their problems through peace, through thought, through persuasion, through democracy. Our wish, our hope, is that no one in our country is looking for a solution through a weapon, that they are not trying to impose their solutions on the government through a weapon. None of the civilized countries welcome those who seek a solution with a weapon. The cure is the path of democracy. The cure is a way to further develop freedoms. The cure is to increase equality. The cure, the path to peace, is not the way to fight the weapon, but the way to fight the thought. With its opposition, everyone has a duty to ensure that those who rule this country, regardless of their ethnic origins, everyone is a free individual, a citizen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this framework, it is our duty to create a society dominated by democracy and freedom and to make individuals truly free and fearless citizens. I wish to express that I agree with the motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0042par0395	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0043par0396	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0044par0397	There's more speakers.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0042par0398	There's another speaker. It's Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0045par0402	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the People's Democratic Party Group to discuss the Council's motion for parliamentary research to be discussed by the initiatives to ensure state support and the decision of the Olympic Committee, especially by the recognition of the genocide, the extradition of Circeçe Ethem. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, first and foremost, we remember the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu, whom we remembered yesterday on the anniversary of his death. He is a man of the cause who has always stood by his people, respected the national will, and fought at the point of perpetuation of the national will. We reminisce of him, we say, "May God grant us a place of rest." It is impossible to disagree with the content of the group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party. We believe that this issue -- as we've always said -- is a subject for historians to decide, whether by entering the archives in our country or by studying international archives. We think it's important for all peoples to live in their own homes. At this point, supporting the struggles of the nations is essential to the fact that the nations are born and raised as their homeland. Of course, when we look at the content of the motion in this case, the pain that began on May 21, 1864, when the Russians drove them out of the country, it really upsets all of us. Today, on all sides of our country -- including our own constituency, Sivas -- the brotherhood of our citizens and each section continues to live together in unity. The issues mentioned in this motion are also legitimate demands, hopefully, in the coming period, in the broad working environment of the House. The historians investigate these issues based on historical facts, archives. I hereby agree with the content of the motion, but wish to continue the agenda as determined by its intensity, that we are against the group's proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0046par0409	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0047par0410	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit01spe0046par0411	I'm going to vote for you, and I'm going to call the number of decisions I have to make. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (26/03/2015), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Thursday (February 27th, 2014) it was suggested that the parliament's motion to open talks on Thursday 26/3/2015 (now) in the General Assembly, which we have given to the head of the TBMM, in order to investigate the rant lobby and corruption and bribery allegations created in the development work. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who wants to speak in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0048par0019	Mr. President, the motion to open this parliamentary investigation on February 27, 2014, to investigate and avoid the allegations of corruption and bribery created by prominent lawmakers in zoning operations. The reason this motion was brought up today is because Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc made confessions confirming the allegations expressed in this motion. So, as the National Movement Party, we've put this motion on the agenda today. In AKP power, Turkey has become a country where corruption is not only done, but also protected, cleared, protected and encouraged. The city rants have become a means of enrichment and unfair funding by the ruling party. Building arrangements on urban areas are not used for urban needs, but for exporting wealth to allies.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0049par0021	Teacher, open up this friend.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0048par0022	Interventions in Urla have surrounded the region, setting up experts for intervention, claims to use influence to prevent the destruction of illegal villas. There are allegations that the Ethir Police School's land will be bought at a low cost through İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality and will eventually be made a large profit by turning it into a shopping centre. The diversification of zoning powers and the facilitating of the share of the runt have been involved. With changes to the development plans, the zoning runts are enriching the allies.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0049par0023	Tell them who is your friend, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0048par0024	Rant has surrounded all the AKP's units, such as unjust gain, bribery, intimidation, and corruption as an octopus. Turkey faces corruption from the top to the bottom. As you may recall, following the corruption and bribery operation on December 17th, then Minister of Environment and Urbanism Bayraktar, when resigning from the Ministry, and the development plans in the investigation file were made with the Prime Minister's approval, and I refuse to be pressured on my side. The Prime Minister should resign. He said. Following this statement, then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan met with Deputy Minister Erdogan Bayraktar and made the following statement: "I have interviewed him, his duty to correct a false statement he used there is to regret it." After a while, Erdogan Bayraktar regrets the threat-smelling words, he says: "The word used beyond my account." I apologize to my leader and my friends in the court for my testimony. This describes the triumph of power over morality. Dear MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc: "My love and sympathy for what is called the congregation is known to 78 million people. " By the way, the AKP also knows. But he also knows that if this parallel structure was discovered from the day December 17th to 25th, I am with my government, and I am with my President. I'm the one going to America, I'm the one running to the Olympics, I'm the one telling you how good these services are. I didn't hide any of this. But he did more than that. He says, clearly and officially, I am the former parallelist. I mean, if Arinc was in the academy now, he'd have to be kicked out with those kids who got kicked out of the academy. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçeker said he was sitting on the lap of the parallel structure while he was running for mayor and asked for votes in the elections. In those words, Ariç says that she is still a parallelist, but that is not the point. Arinc is the Deputy Prime Minister of AKP power. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Gökçek has sold Ankara's parcels to the parallel structure, has given dorms, has made schools for wealthy businessmen, has made changes in development plans. And until the March 30th election, not a bad word came out of his mouth about this parallel structure. It seems that after winning the very difficult choice -- which is conundrum -- he's fighting for someone else. He's concerned about canceling all the places he's legally given, struggling in court. At that time, we never left Ankara or the state's resources in their hands, in their laps for this structure. I'd like to talk about a hundred things about gravity after the election, but I'm not involved in something that's going to wear off the AK PARTY. There's nothing edible about these allegations. These allegations will not only fry your face but also your nails. He is not an ordinary person who makes all these claims, but also the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey. Like former Minister of Environment Erdogan Bayraktar, he eventually stopped talking when it was said. If what Arinc said is not true, he will have to answer for slander and if it is true. Aricç, who has made allegations about Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek, also mentioned that these allegations of corruption in the December 17th-25th corruption were not as effective as a fly bite to the AKP. So his claims are very good for the alleged bribes and corruption of December 17th-25th. Because he believed it would have more impact than a fly bite because he made those claims. Mr. Melih Gökçek accused Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc of being agitator, and his duty from now on is to resign from the office of the Deputy Prime Minister and then from the office of the Deputy Prime Minister. However, I see resignation as a very slim possibility because of the directive to resist to the end of the parallel structure. In that case, the mission will fall to the government. Melih Gökçek, clearly says that you will resist the parallel structure until the end of it. He has instructed you not to resign. According to Gravity, Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc is being instructed from the parallel structure, not from the Prime Minister. This is a serious claim. If this claim is true, it's a parallel structure that has infiltrated the top of the state, not the bottom of the state. Bulent Arinc claims that Melih Gökçek....has assigned Ankara to a parsel parallel structure. All Turkish people are waiting for this claim, the accusations and the allegations to be revealed. Dear MPs, the allegations of corruption and bribery in Ankara and Turkey are not individual but organisational. In its origin, the AKP has power elites. The AKP is a unity of interest rather than a political party. The AKP is in the midst of corruption with various elements and units. In this regard, corruption in the share of urban rank in Ankara is not an individual business but a team business. Among the accomplices of Ankara's share of the rank are those who determine the plots, close the parcels cheaply, offer change of plans, approve, take part, overlook, know what's going on, but don't talk. It is also a matter of caution when Davutoglu says that the matter is closed for them because the allegations are not in a proven manner. Is there anything more important than the Prime Minister's confessions, allegations, and facts? So a prime minister ignores what his aide says, pays attention to who's saying it and accepts it as evidence, which is impossible to understand. What kind of government manager is that? What kind of team is that? What kind of Council of Ministers? What kind of government is that?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0050par0031	No!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0048par0032	The AKP closed allegations of evidence, documented, confessed and video corruption and bribery on December 17th-25th. That's a different matter. There are very serious allegations, accusations and confessions here. The accused and accused are the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Such claims can be closed by independent justice, not by Mr. Davutoglu. The corruption that AKP has covered up is large enough to create an ashtray in a square Larousse thickness. The perpetrator of all corruption, injustice and injustice is power. The government therefore ensures that corruption is covered, not investigated. For this reason, the AKP will likely reject our proposal to investigate and prevent the allegations of corruption and bribery created by the rant lobbys in zoning operations. The perpetrators of these crimes, as they say, are themselves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, his voice and appearance demand that parliamentary research be opened to investigate allegations of corruption, rant sharing and unfair gains surrounding Turkey, from lawmakers without mortgages on their conscience, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0051par0036	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0052par0037	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words for the record.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0051par0038	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0052par0039	Mr. Speaker has made promises and sentences that will condemn our entire community and the entire AK PARTY. I invite them all to prove it. If he has information, he can appeal to prosecutors about zoning or parallels.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0053par0041	You'll have to ask him. Ask for it from Bkent Arinc, and from Brünt Arinc.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0054par0042	Ask for him from Beth-Bilent, and from Beth-Bilkent.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0055par0043	You'll have to ask him. He'll ask him.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0056par0044	I'm reporting on behalf of my group that we're going to review the text of his speech and press charges against him. And I strongly condemn him.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0057par0046	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0058par0047	Uh... don't you blame Bulent Arinc?!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0059par0048	It would have been better if you had condemned Brünt Ariç and Melih Gökçek.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0060par0049	I repeated what he said.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0061par0050	I've given the answer, I'll see you in court.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0062par0051	Now ye shall condemn Ozcan Bey; and ye shall not condemn him. Oh, boy, oh, boy.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0063par0053	And you will not condemn Melih Skycel...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0064par0054	Now, it's Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0065par0056	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, did you look at the TV on the news last night? In the Ukrainian Parliament, the police handcuffed and took those who were involved in corruption -- at the level of the vice presidents -- and the account was asked. Throughout the history of the Republic of Turkey, as we have come to this day, is corruption, the rant lobby, the interest lobby, an audit of what they're doing, an accountability, a public accountation effective? No. According to the International Transparency 2014 report, Turkey ranked 64th in 175 countries. That's a very bad record, folks. Again, with judicial interference and a bag of laws, the council is now serving the lobby of this runt, my friends. With the bag of laws, with the last-minute motions brought by bureaucrats, the House works like a factory, like a law factory, and when there's a court order to serve them, launder them, or even a court order, there are regulations that bypass the court's decisions. How? The courts for the four major companies that were privatized have decided to cancel; they've been brought in, they've been saved here by the bag of law. Again, according to the global corruption barometer, Turkey is bribing 1 of every 5 people. Without a bribe, unfortunately, nothing's going on. The European Commission has determined that 64.5 per cent of justice, which is that the judiciary is not neutral, has reports. Now, when we put all this stuff in, it turns out, of course, that there was an investigation commission here on December 17th-25th, about the four ministers. Then, there's still a lot of files in a lot of places, and there's a lot of trials going on, but what's interesting is the interest lobby. Dollars jump to one. Watch out, it's going up. Now, with the Yemeni intervention, it turns out that the dollar and the gold are rising rapidly. Now, what's interesting is that in times like these, in turbulent times, in times of global crisis, one of the most effective ways to direct the global crisis is to create chaos, create turmoil, create conflict, do what you want through wars and wars. Saudi Arabia intervenes in Yemen. You see, the government here says they support the Yemen operation without giving any information, without giving any explanation, without informing the opposition. The President, who was against Sisi Yesterday, is with Sisi. Now, look at the interesting. Syria's policy also suffered tremendous destruction, in the swamps; in 2 million Syrian Turkeys, cities were devastated. The contractors, the war contractors, are trying to get a runt out of there. The Travel Park broke out on the basis of the travel resistance events, on the basis of the Rant lobby's desire to build the Gunmen's Barracks in the Zombie Square, and there was great social resistance. This public resistance, let's face it, has rocked the government. Now, the treasure, tourism, shores, forest, most popular places are handed over to the interested companies for forty-nine years, under the signature of a minister, under the authority of a minister, who is being rented, registered to the requested. Now, let him go, Mr. President... the precious assets of the Foundation General... the Greenay Foundation was founded on January 17th -- there's a hundred and twenty-five years of the Green Moon Society -- on January 19th, the bill was proposed... the bag was passed, two articles to the law, the actual clauses, this bag of law. Sepeters Kasri was given to the Yeşilaj Foundation, where the President's daughter, Esmeralda, was also given for forty-nine years. See, Baskets Kasri was a press center, Eminönü, a historical, tourist, cultural center in Sarajevo, a beautiful place. So the Yeşilay Foundation was immediately given to the Foundation by the General Directorate of Foundations on paper for forty-nine years. Now, this foundation has gardens, they have halls, these will be used for proportional purposes, bringing revenue to certain parts. If there's a real fight against harmful habits, then there's a better place for it to be set up for the Green Moon, foundations, communities. He does not have to be a sea overseer in Sarayburnu, a overseer for the Tower of Girls, a overseer for the Galata Bridge. Now, these habits are a power disease, it's like cancer, it's metastasized, friends. Now, Ariç said, "You sold the parcel to Skycel." They said shut up. They shut up. When I say shut up, it's not quiet, it's written when I say don't write; it's going to be talked about and written down. As a matter of fact, the government's former ministers had drawn a lot of attention to this runt lobby, the interest lobby, in the past. Now, it's important to say here that the construction of the TOKI... why is the TOKI still attached to the Prime Minister? You're so pro-privatisational, you've privatized all profitable companies, from PETKIM to sugar factories. Then why does TOKI work as a government project with a communist state understanding? Because TOKI doesn't listen to projects, they don't listen to zoning. You turned Istanbul into a concrete city. You condemned Istanbul, Ankara, even the malls, concrete. There's been a situation in concrete where you can't see the greens. You took Istanbul's neighborhoods and connected them to the municipality of Umraniye with a law proposal in a bag of laws for the purpose of this runt. This is all the work of the Rant lobby, the crews of the rant. Now, when you look at it from here, the Ataturk Cultural Center has been destroyed in the Zodiac Square. When you say culture, when you say art, when you say history, it's the government in class. Why was the Ataturk Cultural Center destroyed, and why was this wealth destroyed, left in the middle of nowhere? You can't tell anyone about this. Now, look, you have mega projects, right? The third bridge, we've brought it here, and there's still no area delivery. It's not delivered, folks, but trucks are coming, going, working for thousands of weeks, where the mega-project is working on the third bridge. Again, there is the great road that leads to Gebze, and there is a road that goes all the way to Bursa. All these projects are being bought by all the people in the pool. After receiving it, he arranges a retrofit for the Deputy Prime Minister, giving these contractors state guarantor and leaving, vouching for loans from foreign banks, the state treasure of the Republic of Turkey. Now, he's a guarantor. Tomorrow, when they screw up, when they lose the money, they'll cost the citizen their bills. So, these corruptions, these injustices, this robbery, this looting, the Democratic Party of Peoples, will come to an end on June 7th, with the permission of Allah, and will answer to all of them one by one. I'm saying that in our election statement, it's going to be a question of accountability. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0066par0073	Thank you. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0067par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. Yeah, let's just say, we support this motion that the nationalist Action Party's zoning lobbyists have made to investigate allegations of corruption and bribery, and we expect you to support it. So you don't want to investigate the land, the zoning, the rant, the corruption, the bribery? If you're not going to vote for this motion, why don't you? Sir, here's the agenda of the House. Is there a more important agenda than that? I mean, if Turkey's assets are being stalked by someone, if someone's supplying them with routs over public property, if they're corrupting them, if they're corrupting them, is it important to investigate, to expose them, or is it important, sir, that the showers have covered their face, I don't know, threw a rock with a slingshot. Is it important to prevent that? It's important to me. Dear friends, now because a minister's son was given a $10,000 watch in Italy, a contractor who received the construction tenders for the EXPO 2015 Fair, resigned because he gave the minister's son a $10,000 watch, and prosecutors immediately launched an investigation. No one said it, so he didn't take refuge in nonsense called the coup d'état, no parallel maralel. Yeah, that's the way it's supposed to be. Any allegations, friend, the prosecutor will start the investigation, and the person needed will resign. If he's not resigning, it's up to political power to do what's necessary, to depose him, in the interest of the investigation. That's how the system works. Is it true? That's how it works everywhere. As for you, no, sir, the coup d'état, parallel maralel. We don't understand who's parallel to the government. Melih Gökçek tells Bkent Arinc to be a parallelist, Bkent Arinc says: "You, my brother, sat in the lap of the thing, sold Ankara in parcels." I think of the world. You sold it. I know who you sold it to, I'll tell you. Friends, friends, a corruption, a government spokesman for the charge of theft. It's your job to get it out in the open. Sir, this job is our domestic business. (Prime Minister Davutoglu plays prime minister:) How is it closed? Is this country your father's farm? The mayor will sell, give people a run, commit corruption, steal, increase in assets; the sons who have never produced a cent, who have not valued a penny in the country, and their children will live in luxury, and it is closed. Where do you live? Is that possible, or did you set something up? Dear friends, Lord Ali says there are three kinds of Muslims, so people who believe are three kinds. One: the merchant believes in reason, thinks like a merchant, thinks for his own good. He worships to go to heaven, to seek heaven. He who keeps his duty to Allah, so that He may admit him to Paradise, and he is more profitable in respect of the affair, and he believes in it, and he is like a merchant. There is a second group: they are like slaves; they fear their master, and fear their God. To protect himself from the fire of hell, he obeys the prohibitions of God, fulfills the meetings, so that he doesn't go to hell. Third: the belief of a free man, believing as a free man, as a free man. He believes not in the fear of Hell, but in the worship of God alone, and in the service of His servant, and in the service of God, worthy of worship, worthy of worship. Thus he shall not worship the things of the world, neither shall he serve the servant, but shall he become a free man, and shall he believe, and shall he worship. Now, I'm really curious: I mean, whatever kind of attitude you believe in, take it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0068par0086	And then there's four: none of them.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0067par0087	I mean, this doesn't have to be... Friends, look, the other day, our friend here read a document in the name of some of your MPs, and rightly the friends opposed it, strongly opposed it. Yes, my brother, I don't know because without a human knowledge... he rebelled rightly. And in that case, bureaucrats have corruption, fraud, as far as I'm concerned, we'll talk about it. Yeah, well, let's look into it, yeah, of course. Brother, there is such a thing now. Ya, a Deputy Prime Minister says: "The Mayor of the Metropolitan has sold Ankara, has given a great profit to someone, has given him a great profit." Gee, if you want heaven, look into it, if you're afraid of hell, if you're going to be a free man, look into it." I told you yesterday, this isn't AKP's internal affairs. In fact, even if you're pragmatic, even if you're even close to protecting the political party, I think you need to work on it, you need to ask for it more than we do. Who's right, who's wrong, who's stolen, who's corrupt, let's find out, my friend. Why should I get hurt because of you? Why should I be harmed for your joy, for your world, and why should I be subjected to these criticisms, and why should I have to answer to the citizen? Or why should I lose my votes because of you? Why should I leave power? You have to ask yourself, the power, the political party must go on. No, let's cover it up. You can't close it, it'll go on. You will not be able to close it. The jinn will not enter it. It will be searched if it is not today, and tomorrow it will be searched. I mean, even if his assets change hands seven times, he'll be found, confiscated tomorrow, convicted of 15 or 20 years of statute of limitations, it's over, it's out of the genie lamp. You clean up, my friend, cut off the gangrene arm, throw it away. In the beginning, Davutoglu gave hope, Mr. Prime Minister said, "I will cut off the hand that leads to corruption, theft, even if it is my brother who steals." Well, cut it out, brother. I believe that Davutoglu is clean at this point. I mean, I'll criticize Davutoglu's foreign policy, sir, the Prime Minister's administration or something, but Davutoglu is a clean person in terms of theft, corruption, profit. I believe it, I sincerely believe it, I sincerely believe it; I sincerely believe it, as I said yesterday about Bulent Arinc. There is no robbery, corruption, public work, no foul work; nor did Davutoglu have a hand in it, nor did he have a finger in it. E, my friend, clean up what's inside. No, I'm current, I'm pure. You're not pure, the whole world knows. Yeah, well, it's very simple, so you have to inspect it yourself, which is the duty of the D.A. to start an investigation immediately, according to Law 3628, and to identify all his assets, domestic, foreign, safes, desks, desks, whatever they have, he has to ask for the account, ask for the source. Where did you get it, Melih Gökçek? You inherited it from your father, my friend? Did you give him the inheritance and the estate tax? Well, thank you very much, we're also giving you a medal. Where did you get it, Osman Gökçek, out of the lottery? Which ticket did it get on? Come show me. We thank you. Ask him to reveal his source, and let's say in public that, yes, my brother has won legitimately, no problem. So if he didn't win legitimately, why do you sacrifice his interests and his future for his world? Dear friends, today, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs has tendered Bedri Rahmi, Akbuk, Göbünü and Small Sarsala coves for twenty-nine years for rent, on average, between 80,100,000 lira. Who's this going to be for, really? Each of these sheep has about two hectares of forest, a forest area. Who's going to build a villa here tomorrow? Special privileges like Urla villas? Who's gonna make the runt? Forests, shores, coves belong to the entire public, under the government's rule and savings, and are open to public use. Well, when you give it to someone, not even the people in that area are going to take advantage of it, but someone's going to enjoy it, someone, sir, is going to come in there with their million-dollar boat, and they're going to enjoy it. That's not gonna happen. These things need to be investigated. Look, the last thing Erdogan Bayraktar said was something interesting about where he got $22 million two years ago. It was put in the urban transforming area, a land in the track, you know, and then it went up to about 115 million TL. Erdoğan Bayraktar says there is no risky structure on this land. It's against the spirit of the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, and it's even against me. As he said in December 17th, I did what the Prime Minister ordered. So, friend, who's supplying the rent? Why the hell am I in trouble because of you? There is no friendship, no theft, no party of corruption. Whoever did it needs to be dealt with. At first, I say it's a duty to the ruling party, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0069par0093	Thank you. Özcan Ulupınar, MP of Zonguldak, who has asked against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0070par0097	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the MHP's group proposal for the opening of parliamentary research in order to investigate and prevent the allegations of corruption and bribery created in development. Before I begin my words, I salute the High Council. In our eleven-year period of power, allegations of corruption related to zoning in both central and local administrations are reported to be public. I'm not much on the matter, but I'm going to address the statements made by our Prime Minister two months ago. During the time of our governments, zoning arrangements, corruption related to their renovations have been more advanced, and the regulations that have been made are a sign of this. With the latest arrangements, we discussed three basic issues in the Building Law. One: the development practices will be fair and swift, preventing any delay in this matter from causing harm. Another: The development plan changes will allow municipalities to receive a share of the value increase. Each municipality will brief the construction of plans via the web in the legislation on suspending the accepted ones, as well as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism will provide this information, preventing the partnership share and citizens from falling into uncertainty. The change of plan will be done by maintaining historical, cultural and natural tissue, and there will be no routine procedure. The development plan changes will be linked to strict plans, and municipalities will get a share of that. In part of the development plan, there will be a change of general plan, covering a whole, not a point. An unfair distribution of income is not going to be a situation where a neighbor can't take advantage of it. There will be a significant increase in development. With a change of plan, the new value is owned by the public. With this new arrangement, it will be clear at what rate the value increases will be addressed. This zoning share for our municipalities has been imposed on our municipalities to use for social solidarity, urban transformation. The construction sector will also gain a qualified momentum with arrangements for development plans. Construction is very important to the economy. These provisions do not reflect negatively on the construction industry, nor do they carry the burden of bureaucracy. We have a separate study on this. In this sense, the development of the industry will have a serious opportunity to increase economic activity in this framework. When we look at our province of Istanbul, which has one foot in the past, it is among our rare cities, which have historical history in the world. This city, which has led to many parties being in power, has left many of our parties in power. When we were making zoning arrangements for this city, we made our plans based on this philosophy, thinking about each square meter. There is no such natural and historical beauty in the world. We'll protect it. Istanbul is also a city that flies from its location to 60, 70 countries. If the historical fabric of Istanbul goes away, it will not be restored. We also closely follow every step taken regarding this feature of Istanbul. Dear friends, since the beginning of our AK PARTY powers, we've created cities with brands and brands. We arranged our rich values in the past with our zoning plans, decorated them with our own unique Seljuk and Ottoman architecture, and presented this quality to our citizens all over Turkey. However, as of today -- I want to express something as a Zonguldak MP -- there's also a property issue that concerns our Zonguldak very closely. It's a matter of direct concern to 50,000 citizens, a problem, a century-old problem. Because of the TTK basin, it's a coal basin, so our citizens can't get the deed to the land they're in. In 1984, the law on zoning pardons was issued, and the allocation papers were obtained, but they were unable to be converted into the deed, I'm afraid. In this regard, Article 31 of the Law on Occupational Safety is an important matter that our Zonguld people expect. In the coming days, hopefully, he and other laws must be passed here. That way, our citizens will be able to get the deed, transfer documents to the deed, and that problem we call a centuries-old problem will be eliminated. This is the bag of laws we're going to discuss today, the unfinished domestic security law, another bag of laws we're going to discuss behind it, international contracts, a lot of laws like the Occupational Security Act, that are on our agenda, waiting, and we have a week left. As of April 5th, the House will be closed. After April 7th, all my friends, we'll all be on the field in election work. Since we have thousands of citizens waiting for these laws, I declare that we are against this motion. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0071par0109	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0072par0110	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0071par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, he expressed some issues regarding the application of the basin in Zonguldak. Resolving the property issue in Zonguldak, the property issue in the basin, which our citizens live in, has the deeds of the buildings they use, has entered the relevant bill, which has been applied in accordance with the Emancipation Act 2981, with the support of the ruling party, with the support of other political parties, and with the support of the Minister, but will perhaps be able to pay attention to the rights of the rights of our citizens due to Law 2981, while maintaining the rights of the rights of our rights from Law and the Parliament. As the Republican People's Party, our recommendation is that the item there be removed and added to one of these bag offers that we're discussing. I have submitted my proposal and my proposal to the Justice and Development Party Group, the National Movement Party Group and the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. If four political parties decide on this, we can give the Zonguldcular the good news today. I want to give this news today, and I salute the Zonguldans from here with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0073par0118	Thank you. Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0074par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Immediately after the discovery of stone coal in Zonguldak, in 1910, the deregulation and coal basin are linked to a will according to the law of that time, and the legal problems of the people who were later formed here or were entitled to it before 1910 begin. Later, a number of laws have been adopted, such as deeds as deed allocation documents, and those who have violated property rights or performed property rights procedures face rights violations. We tried to solve this with Law 4479 during the 57th Government, when the National Movement Party was also a coalition partner. However, developments following the adoption of the law did not allow the problem to be fully resolved. The National Movement Party believes there's a problem here. He wants this problem to be resolved in accordance with legal and legal requirements, without creating other legal problems. The National Movement Party will demonstrate its will and continue to defend the law of our citizens who have violated the right to property in Zonguldak.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0075par0124	Thank you. I submit to your votes the nationalist movement group proposal...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0076par0129	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit02spe0075par0130	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit03spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's been a disagreement among the clerks. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the National Party for Action Group's proposal, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (26/03/2015), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Sinop MP Engin Altay and Ankara MP Levent Gök in an effort to "take over some of TMSF's Çukurova Group's companies, under the independent image of the SPK, Turkcell administration, appointing former AKP ministers and Izmir's governor and the Turkcell administration under the advertising image of the Turkcell administration, and the investigation of Ethem Sandzak and other media organizations in all aspects of the process" (17/03/2015). lu) To be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, it has been recommended to be taken ahead of the pending motions and to be read in the presentations Thursday (26/03/2015), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. On behalf of the Republican People's Party's Group proposal, Hope Oran is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0018	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. The issue is a motion to investigate media and political relations. We care about this motion, the motion to investigate, the need to establish this research commission. Of course, media, independent media, neutral media, free media and its relations are very important, very important for democracy. Last week, Socialist International Secretary-General Luis Ayala was in Turkey, held several talks in Turkey for three days, and left Turkey with the following indications that there is a lack of democracy and freedom in Turkey. Second determination: democracy does not work in Turkey, it has been paralyzed. Third determination: the democratic institutions have lost its function; the fourth determination is that it is important, important: the media in Turkey has become a criminal organization. The fifth determination has also been discussed in Turkey, with this determination. Then, last week, again, the head of the European Parliament's progress report was here, the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission was here, and they shared their concerns with us, more or less. Of course, democracy is very important, and in democracy, media, independent, neutral free media is very important. Now, how independent is this media in Turkey, how neutral, how free is this media? Now, in order for us to understand this, we have to solve this pool problem once and for all. So we're making this determination, and we're putting it out there. Turkey has a problem with the pool. So we need to get this pool media problem on the table. Look, I want to give you an example: on November 21, 2013, TMSF seized 2 newspapers, 1 television; Evening, Sun and Sky television; and here it takes the Çukurova Group, which is in charge of those newspapers, and gives them to Turkmedia, whose head is Ethem Sandzak. $62 million... no bids, no money paid or not paid. Now, that's the TMSF foot. After that, we're looking at the Capital Market Board, the SEC. And he's taking Turkcell, and Turkcell's pulling aside members of the Çukurova Group for failing to meet certain conditions, and I draw your attention -- especially here -- to the independent board of directors, and the independent board is throwing them out. There are seven board members, five independent boards from Çukurova and the SPK as an independent board of directors. Who's he throwing here? Attila Coach, former AKP minister. Then Hilmi Guler, the former minister again. After that, Bekir Pakdemirli, Izmir is a candidate for AKP (AKP) and MP. Mehmet Bostan and Ahmet Akar. When you look at it, this independent board of directors is basically tied up. Depends on where? The power depends on the AKP. Now, well, Turkcell's this way, the media's that way. So what you're going to say is: what's this pool problem, what's this pool problem? Look, this is the pool problem.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0078par0025	What newspaper is that?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0026	...the companies appointed by the AKP executives, and how much resources have been transferred from here, and they're giving it all one by one. Our topic is Turkcell, which means what we want investigated is Turkcell. Look, how does this work? This is what happens: 2014, the evening, Sun, Star; let's get three newspapers here, these are newspapers with about 10, 15,000 circulationes, but when we look at them inflated, they have about 300,000 circulations. There are 7 per cent newspapers in total circulation, and their circulation is 7 per cent. So, how much resources are being transferred from Turkcell's advertising budget? How much can it be transferred to something that's 7%? 7, 8, 10%; no, 31.3% of these 3 newspapers, which are inflated, which are not selling dealerships, are being funded. This is the newspaper I just showed you, for example, this is the Speaker's newspaper. When we look at this paper almost inflated, I count three newspapers, it has more circulation than they do, it has about 8 percent circulation. So, how much resources are being transferred from Turkcell? I mean, when you look at it, is there justice, is there equality? 4 per thousand, the same circulation, 31.3 per cent on one side, so one third on the other side, four per thousand on the other. Now, that's a big problem, so here we see that there's no justice and there's no equality. So, how does a criminal become a criminal, so why is it criminal? In this case, look, in February, this newspaper group, this media group, this group that was head of Ethem Sandzak. This group, who was head of our party, the President of our party, myself, the MPs, has made a lot of accusations, a lot of insults, a lot of insults, a lot of targets. So we put together the necessary documents, the necessary information, and we refuted all their slanders, all their lies, and we threw them aside. But, now, can this be politics? What kind of politics is that? Now, you're going to take over a media group, you're going to give it to whoever you want, and then he's going to come back, he's going to do whatever he wants, he's going to do the hit on the political party, he's going to set it up. That's how the crime works. I mean, that's not supposed to happen. So, you're looking at who this media, this area, who the power is, who is Ethem Sandzak; who is the businessman, sir, who has become a media boss; who has a close relationship with the AKP (AKP); who is now a former member of the AKPK, again, at the moment, a member of an institution -- the Party's Democratic and Referee Board. So, now, when you look at the relationships here, there's a situation here that's not healthy. I mean, it's not just the Republican People's Party's problem, it's not just Hope Oran's problem; we, in the end, know how to clean up the mud that comes to us, we have a clear head, we know how to fight it. But it's not Hope Oran or the Republican People's Party, it's clean politics, moral politics, political-media relations; it's democracy, parliamentary, democratic, legal system, that's what we're talking about.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0079par0030	What about the explanation of Gursel Tekin? Confiscating on June 8th.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0031	Now, we all have to fight for it together. Now, we've got the tip of the knot here, so we've got him, we've got him, we've got him, we've got him, we've got him; whoever's behind this, whoever's behind this, we're gonna go to the businessman, if there's media behind this, we're gonna go to the media, we're gonna go to the politician if there's a politician...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0079par0033	Gursel Tekin sends his regards.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0034	If there's a bureaucrat, we'll go to the bureaucrat, we'll go after whoever's behind him. Now, my dear friends, look what's become of him. Look, Turkcell, I'm sure that all the friends here -- no matter what party they were from -- were a worldwide company that we were proud of, wasn't it? I mean, when you look at it, it's a company that we're all proud of around the world in communication. Now, is that the right thing to do? So, he takes power, from seven administrations to five of his ministers there, so somewhere, he builds up like the former Cabinet of Ministers, and then he transfers the resources to other places as he pleases. Now, today Turkcell will be questioned in my opinion, Turkcell or AAKPCELL? I mean, how am I supposed to trust this Turkcell? Believe me, I mean, I even think that I'm a Turkcell subscriber, but I'm even thinking about getting my subscription there. There are thousands of employees, millions of subscribers, but I don't trust this institution. Why don't I trust you? Because it's bad relations with politics, with the media, with this gang, with the criminal organization. So I say -- I say to all of you -- come for clean politics, moral politics...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0080par0037	So, you're saying it's clean and moral politics?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0038	...let's run this congressional research commission and help bring the truth to light together.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0081par0039	Where's the money you collected for the pool?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0040	It's your duty. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0081par0042	Where's the money you collected for the pool?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0082par0043	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0077par0044	Again, I speak to your conscience, and by your judgment, I entrust you to God.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0082par0046	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0083par0047	Where's the money you collected for the pool? He's crying, he says they stole his money.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0084par0048	You're talking about moral politics!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0085par0049	First, account for December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0086par0050	Süzeyya Sadi Bilç, MP of Isparta, who has asked against the proposal. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0087par0053	That man caressed the man who attacked the Deputy Prime Minister. He's a criminal man.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0088par0054	Where did Mehmet Genghis and Özltun transfer money? Where did the guy who made love to people transfer money?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0086par0055	Mr. Sergeant, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0089par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to open a parliamentary investigation. Dear friends, of course, when we look at the motion here, we see a lot of contradictions and a lot of claims within ourselves. These can be replicated; whatever angle you're looking at -- when you look at different variants -- you can say very different things. First of all, when I look at Mr. Oran's speech, here's an AKP media statement, which is in the motion, here's the friendly media, friendly media. Dear friends, first of all, the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY power did not come down from the sky.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0090par0061	It's been downloaded.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0089par0062	So this is a party in power, which is in power here in the High Assembly, taking the nation's great gratitude, especially today, at the level of 50 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0091par0063	38... 38...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0089par0064	Of course, there may be different media outlets in the media, as well as in the public, supporting this power, and there may be media outlets against it. And they can broadcast freely, freely, freely, in the thought of free media, free press. Here, I, however, did not understand the essence of this motion, but when I looked at the speech of Mr. Oran, I understood the essence of this motion. This motion is a motion given within the impulse of a reckoning. What is it? So, let's say there's some articles in these media that have been written against us, maybe they've been given the necessary answers in legal ways, I don't know, but it's not satisfied with that, but it's in a demand for a reckoning, and this issue has been moved from a different perspective to the council bench. Now, for example, here, I'm looking at it, it says: I'm reading from your proposal, number 6362 -- the 21st Article of Law (1) says that if we read the 21st article of Public Partnerships in the 21st article of Law (1), it says that if we were to read the 21st Amendment of this 6362, it is that it is forbidden to engage in commercial practices and to deal directly with the principles of business and integrity of trade life, or to reduce profit or property transfers of property, it is now that you have only taken this place, but it says that if we read out of the 21st Article of this 6362, it is the same thing as: public open partnerships and collective investments of their partnerships and collective partnerships, or the management of their management, or the rights, or the rights of the rights, or the rights of the market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market market markets, or. I mean, what's the condition here? You need to look for a real or legal person who has been directly or indirectly involved in this public partnership, in terms of management, control or capital. So what kind of relationship do media organizations have with Turkcell in terms of management, control and capital?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0092par0068	Political. What's the relationship between the AKP and Turkcell, Attila Koco?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0089par0069	In the beginning, when we look from here, the first leg of the legal basis of this motion collapses. Second, on the other hand, valuable friends, private companies do media plans, commercial priorities, the target mass of communication, access costs, commercial relations and conditions. I think that's how Turkcell did his media planning, like any other company. On the other hand, it is clear that the actions of a private company under its own special preferences and practices are not subject to parliamentary control within the framework of Article 98 of our Constitution, and that such a matter is not even possible to be raised under Article 97, but we are talking about it today. Turkcell, dear friends, is a private company, free to plan the media. In no way, it's incompatible with the reality of commercial life, as if it were an advert for the Press Agency, as if it were doing this media planning, to expect it to distribute it equally to everyone. Also, I'll tell you this: on one hand, we blame the media, we do it, we do it, we call it free media, but on the other hand, a vice president talked about taking over the newspapers after the incidents. Well, dear friends, we're seeking our dues in the eyes of the law, but what kind of legal response is there to confiscating newspapers? Is there such a legal response? No. Oh, after that, of course, that's been given up. But, dear friends, we need to understand that this is not the place for a series of outside fights, a series of media fights, and as I've already said, it's a private company. It is not possible to establish a relationship in terms of management, control and capital in Article 21 of Capital Market Law 6362, nor, as I say, there is no legal response under Article 98 of the Constitution. For all these reasons, I declare myself against this motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0093par0075	Thank you. In favor of the proposal, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0079	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's People's Party's Group of Republican People's Party about Sky Turkish television, which is under the supervision of TMSF. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, of course, this is Turkcell's case, and what was done against this media is a whole system of laughter during the Justice and Development Party. What is this system? The main element of this system is this: it revealed itself on December 17th and 25th. What's being done? It's the corruption of the century. We need an understanding, a structure, a sense of government, a sense of public perception by creating a media task that takes people's trillions of people away, as if it were a coup, as if the nation's property, the property of the public was not defeated, and we need a media media to look at it in the eye of the nation. This is a coup, the prosecutors are traitors, the prosecutors who did this are coupters. Who's it supposed to be made with? It's created by the media. This government conducted an operation on Turkish media after a period of time. There's no way to call it an operation, it's a coup, valuable MPs. Why am I saying this? This is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan with his own... here, if he has his own money, he comes out, buys a TV, buys a newspaper; AK PARTI has a rich MP -- there are a lot of rich deputies -- he comes out, buys a TV, buys a newspaper, but what's done? Dear MPs, from the public tenders, you will give the tenders to fellow businessmen, and from there you will transfer some of the money from which you have been made, and from there you will take the morning, and from there you will take the ATV, and you will bring your son-in-law to your head. The people who bought the paper had nothing to do with the paper. On the other side -- what is it again -- it's similar to the one that was created with the evening, with the star, with the sky with the Turk. Now, over there, these tallies have been determined by the Forensic Medical Association, where they have been transferred to the gang, including a businessman who has blasphemed against the nation. You can't deny it, it'll come out eventually. They say here that $730 million has been raised. One quadrillion 400 trillion liras. Whose money is this, if you love your God? They're getting a public tender. What are they doing with public bids? They do business with inflated numbers, and then some of these coins, the gentleman, are instructed, transferred. From an example of the Court's report... does that mean you have no conscience at all? Like the Ministry of Transport, he's signing the biggest tenders in history. Look, Adapazarı-Karasu, Tekirdağ-Muratlı, Kars-Tiflis, Izmir-Kemalpaşa, the project of four railways is being prepared, do you know how much it costs? Let me give you the exact number, 945 trillion liras. So, how much does these four bids cost in the end? I'll tell my master, 3 quadrillion $87 trillion. Who's making money here? He's winning five or six businessmen. And they take the daily of the morning, and take the newspaper, and take the ATV, and take the Star, and take the evening, and make an army. What army? The press army. Here's $100,000 in the press. Here's $100,000 in the press. What are you going to do? You will praise the AKP. Sir, you'll say Recep Tayyip Erdogan has taught a lesson, and you'll say, "It's dark." I mean, is there any other structure that you like? Yesterday, when the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon were going out, Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this nation was being hit. The prosecutors of this nation stood up to the blow, saying, "Here's my armored Mercedes car." The next thing you know, what are the columnists doing in the media, the servers on that friendly TV? Wow, the coup! They said that God didn't send us to war with them. They're sitting there, facing each other for $100,000 a month, $200,000 a month, in an environment where people can't live on a thousand liras, praising Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AKP. That's their duty, they have no other duties. Recep Tayyip Erdogan turned around and said: "This is a plot." I looked at the same men on the same television, saying: "Here are the traitors plotting the army, conspiring in the army, creating it." Now they've come out and they're talking about it on TVs with two hundred thousand dollars each. Where in the world has this kind of media been? What kind of justice is that? Look, I'll tell you something. Do you know who was doing this yesterday? Fourteen or fifteen years ago, the powerful forces found a bearded person, found a headscarf, found some values, a script, all TVs, columnists, programme producers, a cult, wow, religion, wow, wow, wow, wow, that's what they were saying. Well, weren't you hurt then? Don't you realize you're doing a hell of a lot worse than he is today? It's a shame, isn't it? Don't you need justice in a country? No matter who comes with injustice, it's about standing by your rights. It's not fair to me, it's hell for the oppressors, but when others are victims, oh good, good land! What kind of a country is that? Is that an understanding? Well, is there any guarantee of that? Won't you be offended tomorrow when it's done to you like this? Come on, be fair! What do you stand for? Today, in this question motion, the Star Sandzak Group's things... here are the numbers. Look, my dear friends, 60 trillion adverts. Do you know who gets 25 trillion of this? He gets the morning paper. Who's taking your 8 trillion? He's getting the Star newspaper. What's their circulation? We're going to airports, there's Star papers everywhere. Who's handing them out? Who's paying for all this?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0095par0088	There's time, there's time.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0089	There's no time, no one else. Pass them. You're going somewhere else, Star. It's not being sold, but it's being distributed for free in public places. Who's paying? The public pays, dear friends, the public pays. The money comes from the villager Mehmet Aga, head of the mountain, comes out of the laborer, comes out of the laborer, comes out of the pensioner, comes out of the clerk, comes out of the shop. This money is not your father's money. On the other hand, if there was justice, there would be no CNN Turk, I would say to my master, there would be no Channel D, there would be no Speaker, there would be no Zaman, there would be no Zaman, there would be no Milky Way TV today. Who's there? Channel 24. I'm looking at Halkbank giving it all to Channel 24. Who's Channel 24? Who's watching Channel 24?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0096par0092	We're watching.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0093	Oh, you know who's watching? You're creating perception, perception, but remember, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and those who walked with him, you were suffering from all of this yesterday. When you were on your way, you were supporting that national newspaper by paying for the bagels in your pocket. There's no national paper in this. This is media for sale yesterday. This media is lynching us. They're lynching conservatives. You called them. What difference does it make what you did today? Today, the same newspapers have been seized in certain places -- morning, Star, Evening, Calendar, this one, this one -- all with the same headline. He's being targeted, and after that, other institutions of the state, with their judgment, with his courthouse, are going to the target point of fire. Yesterday the same was done, and yesterday a television station was buying a newspaper, a headscarf, a beard, and then they were hitting Islamic values over it. Do you know the difference between what you did today and what he did? You're being meaner than they are, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's better to know that. Why can't you stand it? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is giving a speech. If he opened the market, if he opened the fountain, there are 37 TV stations, national channels, and around 100 local channels in Turkey. Mr. President, you don't even have the patience for a group meeting on Tuesdays. Prime Minister Qatar calls from Qatar, says, "Hello Fatih." What happened, Mr. Prime Minister? He says, "Why are you giving this State Gardener alive?" Yeah, you can't even stand to hear him talk for five minutes. What kind of democracy is that? Could there be such a sense of justice?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0097par0095	He can't even stand subtitles.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0098par0096	Subtitle...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0097	You know what Sarach the Conqueror says? Mr. Prime Minister, we'll remove it immediately. He's giving the order to remove our president's speech on live television and he's looking for Bilal Erdogan, and he says, "I've upset the gentleman very much, I'm sorry." But remember, this nation will upset you, but today, but tomorrow, because upon injustice, a system of injustice has never stood. I invite him to justice, I invite him to justice for him. (AK PARTY) Let go of this advocacy, stop beating around the bush and walk to the truth, walk towards justice, walk to the people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0099par0100	We've been walking around, we've been with the nation for ten elections.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0101	We'll see, Osman.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0099par0102	Okay, we'll see again. You've seen it for ten choices.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0094par0103	I hope we don't have to visit you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0100par0104	What are you defending? What are you defending?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0101par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0102par0106	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0100par0107	Is your politics Star? Defend your party, defend your ideas.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0103par0108	I'm defending my party, we're walking with the people.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0102par0109	Mr. Look, Mr. Vural, please... Mr. Oran will mean something.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0100par0110	Star, what are you defending media politics for? You're the public defender. You're not the media proxy.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0103par0111	I said we're walking with the people.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0100par0112	Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0104par0113	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0105par0114	Mr. President, Mr. Tarayya Sadi Bilcç has stated that I am in a reckoning. I guess I got it wrong. I'd like to take a word with you on a taunt, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0106par0115	There's no bullying, Mr. President, let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0104par0116	Here you go, Mr. Oran. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0107par0120	Congressmans, we're not in a reckoning here, so we're part of a legislature here after all. There's a real situation, and I've just expressed it in numbers, so if a newspaper is seven percent circulation, it's getting out of the 31.3% advertising budget, and the other one's getting a 4%, there's a mistake here, so there's mind, science, logic, conscience. Otherwise, I'd like to point out that I'm not in a reckoning here. Right, so lately I've been a media victim, a victim of this pool media, but I'm going to solve my own problem, my own party, my own problem, in front of the judge, and I'm going to go all the way. Anyway, the information that I have, the documents, the lies that I have, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed, it's destroyed. Now, that's not the case here, so please don't take it that way. It's a common responsibility for all of us. Today for you, tomorrow for us, today for us, tomorrow for you. Look, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu, Mr. President says that we are determined to remove his arm, even if he is my brother, who, for one reason or another, approaches our national treasure, our resources with intent to commit corruption. Your President-General, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu, says that. Now, here it is, the reckoning, you don't have to look at this, there's a reality, there's something wrong. It's all our job to fix it; it's our job to fix it, it's our job to make it go away. Once again, I'm suggesting that this is not a reckoning, that we need free media to make democracy work healthy. It is a shame for those who work there, and it is a shame for those who work at Turkcell. I mean, there's something going on up there, the elephants are kicking, but unfortunately, the citizen pays the bill every time. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0108par0129	Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP, who has taken a stand against the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0109par0131	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On 16 May 2013, the Savings Trust Insurance Fund took over the ten companies' powers from Banking Law 5411, which provided the collection of its debts from the Çukurova group. Members of parliament, the TMSF is a legal institution that strives to collect the public's, the people's, the nation's debt by the power taken from law and legislation, by protecting the debtor's law, at the highest price they will receive. Thus, as it is clear from the TMSF (TMSF) statement, the collection of the recipients is being put on sale by Show TV and BMC, while other companies are taking over. The main contract, dated 31/1/2003, also signed 4/8/2004, and was agreed on by protocols, but the protocol dated 2007 and the protocol dated 30/12/12/12 were instalmented, and the group was cut down as a result. The protocol, dated 15/5/2009, has been paid in installments, but delay rates have not been paid, and the group has been reduced to default due to non-payment rates. Cases and follow-ups have been suspended due to defaults. There were numerous talks with the Çukurova group, additional deadlines, commitments were taken, but the group did not comply with those commitments. As a result, the final deadline was granted in May 2013, and although it was not observed, the foreclosure was carried out by Fund Decision 135, dated 16/5/2013. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the TMSF, do their duty by law. As a result, he collects what the public gets, what the public gets. Therefore, as politicians, I say we should stand by the TMSF. I also present the group's proposal to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0110par0139	Thank you. Republican People's Party recommends the group vote...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0111par0143	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit04spe0110par0144	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Elector, Mr. Oran, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Öz, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Dedeoğlu. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 5th place, Eskişehir MP Salih Kabul and Uber MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs -- the Law Orders Against Some Laws and Law Orders -- and the Law Order of the National Education Ministry -- and the Minister of the Law on the Law and Orders of the Law, Mehmet Akif, Minister of the Law, the Minister of Law, the Minister of Law for Education, the Minister of Manisa MP Free Special, the Committee of Public Institutions, and the Charter of Services, and the Committee of Law for Change in Some Laws. The commission and the government are in place. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 27 was adopted in the last chapter of the proposal, which was considered the main law. Members of parliament have reached our presidency of two amendment proposals for the new clause violation. Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and his friends have a motion to add a temporary clause to Level Value Tax Act 3065. However, this motion cannot be processed because the third article must be submitted after its talks and the order of the transaction has passed. The second motion was issued by İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and his friends, including the new clause tender. A change was foreseen in the Law of Dair, which ruled the Unmovable Things in the Basin of Number 3303. New amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the law, which is not the subject of the bill and proposal, which is discussed according to Article 87 of the Civil Code. The motion will not be processed because it contains a change in a law that is not being adopted by the proposed proposal. There are three motions in Article 28, but these motions... A motion issued by Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and his friends to add a bell to Article 28 has been proposed to abolish a provision issued in Building Law 3194. New amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the law, which is not the subject of the bill and proposal, which is discussed according to Article 87 of the Civil Code. The motion cannot be processed because there is a change in a law that has not been adopted in the proposed proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0112par0028	Mr. President, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0110par0029	Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0112par0030	Sir, I demand a formal debate on this matter because there are precedents on this subject. The proposal is subject to the law in its integrity. The fact that he's out of line doesn't mean he can't be seen. I demand a formal debate on this matter.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0110par0031	Mr. Kubat, we've just talked about this missing substance, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the fourth paragraph of Article 28 of the common law proposal 705, we propose and propose that the terms of the article shall be changed in the form of the finder's terms. İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change certain Laws and Law Orders in accordance with some 705 of which are currently in session, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law Order of Law and Law Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education of the Law and the Council of Manisa MP Free Special; the Order of Public Institutions and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Council of the Law shall be made changes in some Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin Haydar Akar Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi A) Article 207 of State Officers Act No. 657 dated 14/7/1965, B) Article 176 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, dated 27/7/ 1967 and 926, "In any case stated in this article (c) in the text of Article 46 (c) of the Law 2547, The 2nd sentence of Article 138 of Law 6362 is lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0113par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0110par0054	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0114par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0115par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0110par0057	Mr. Kubat, take your seats.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0115par0060	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. In case there were any misunderstandings, we made a motion after the 27th Amendment to the new 28th Amendment. But without specifying the presidential content, he made a general statement that this could not be processed due to the fact that its rank in the draft text has passed, and I asked for a procedure debate on it. Because, Mr. President, the motions have been passed here at the General Assembly regarding the items that have already been passed. It could be Sehven, sometimes urgent matters can be understood after passing two or three substances related to that substance. In this regard, it is the decision of the single majority and the General Assembly of the commission for this new substance abuse. Therefore, we have a request for a formal discussion on this matter, and I ask you to please meet this one. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0116par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0117par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0118par0065	That's not the way it is, it's over.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit05spe0116par0066	Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit06spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. There are four motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 705 S. On Article 28 of the Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose the addition of the bell below. Mustafa Elitaş Recep Special Osman Love Look Muyettin Aksak Adnan Yılmaz Mehmet Akyürek The second sentence of Article 8 (d) of Building Law 3194 (d) dated 3/5/1985 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the fourth paragraph of Article 28 of the current bill proposal 705, we propose and propose that the term "placement" be changed into "bullied." İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Committee of Public Institutions and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education shall be made changes in some Law. We propose and supply to change the clause in the following way. The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin Haydar Akar Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi A) Article 207 of State Officers Act No. 657 dated 14/7/1965, B) Article 176 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, dated 27/7/ 1967 and 926, "In any case stated in this article (c) in the text of Article 46 (c) of the Law 2547, The 2nd sentence of Article 138 of Law 6362 is lifted from effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 705 rows, is 28. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0119par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0039	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0120par0040	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0121par0041	Mr. President, if we have any changes from these motions, please, we'd like a different motion. We have a amendment motion from the AK PARTY group, which is said to have been changed.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0042	Mr. Kaplan, that's out of the question. I mean, if there was any change, of course we'd send it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0121par0043	Mr. President, we haven't been in touch, you've been on a break, nothing's been discussed. There's a substance charge here.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0044	No, it's not that, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0121par0045	It's about the next item.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0046	There's a new substance clause, that's one thing.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0121par0047	Mr. President, we're interviewing 28 of them.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0048	Yeah, we're seeing 28.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0122par0049	Mr. Kaplan, the next item is a motion for substance abuse.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0116par0050	Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0123par0052	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, every part of the country is an honor to us. Around the country, the islands in the Aegean Sea, in particular, are land pieces registered in our inventory. From these islands, from the Aegean Islands in 2004, the Greeks raised flags to 16 men, built buildings there, set up first aid teams, framed six miles of continents, and thus expanded their continents. The island of Hurshit, one of the 16 islands registered in the inventory, is five times the size of the island of Büyükada, in Istanbul; the island of Bay is just near Izwar, and you will see Bulamaç Island when you enter the Internet, and they have changed the name of Farmakos. Faros, Nergimnos, Calolimnos, Goat, Sakarci, Koç Baba, Ardacık, Gavdos, Dhia, Dionisades - our islands in the Mediterranean. These are all Turkish islands. All 16 islands are a rock opposite İzmir, Turkish islands according to the Lausanne Agreement. The Lausanne Agreement added 2 to it. The lu map shows that everything is clearly red-lined, under the rule of the Republic of Turkey, under those conditions. With the AKP's power, they were all occupied by Greeks one by one. Turkey, which was on the brink of war with Greece for the Cardacic reef in 1996, lost 16 candidates quietly as of 2004. Turkey's war debt is 84 million according to the Lausanne Agreement. By paying off his debt, he'd put these islands in his inventory. Also, you must not look at islands in terms of sheer size. Because according to sea law and air law, the islands are surrounded by six miles of landwater. In addition to the landwaters, the adjacent region is the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone. The new Greek government's National Defence Minister made his first visit to these islands. So with 16 lost islands, Greece's continental shelf has increased to 7,000 square kilometers. It's amazing that such a tragic event, that the press in Turkey did not write, that they were ignored by power, that they were kept silent. There is a violation of the continental shelf in Bulamaç Island's airspace, the General Staff wants to intervene, the State Department has a political will behind it, so take it off its website and don't interfere. I asked Mr. Secretary of Defense here yesterday, and he says, "Yes, there's an actual situation. I mean, there's an actual situation, an occupation." The island's wedding is on us, but the Greeks are using it. We can't go, we can't touch, we can't touch, we can't get out, we can't fish around, we can't keep our integrity, we can't keep our land. To ignore such a thing... Yes, there's a real situation, we're trying to fix it with agreements; legally, we don't have the land. How can we digest it? I condemn the Minister's behavior. I urge the government to take serious precautions at this point. The great state is the state that protects its rights. Our economy is big, we've grown up, we've got dignity, not bragging about it. We don't have eyes on someone else's land, let's not lose our land. That's the honorable stance. I say it is inability to remain silent, to overlook it, to be miserable, to salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0124par0061	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Committee of Public Institutions and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education shall be made changes in some Law. We propose supply and supply to change the clause in the following way. Haydar Akar and his friends A) Article 207 of State Officers Act No. 657 dated 14/7/1965, B) Article 176 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, dated 27/7/ 1967 and 926, "In any case stated in this article (c) in the text of Article 46 (c) of the Law 2547, The 2nd sentence of Article 138 of Law 6362 is lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0125par0073	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0124par0074	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0126par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0127par0076	Mr. President, sir, I have something to say. Can the MPs eat in the General Assembly Hall, Mr. President? So there's a congressman sitting in the back row, who served in the Presidential Court, and he's eating there, sir, is that possible?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0124par0077	Congressman, please. Nobody, I don't know, but it's not true.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0128par0078	By God, someone was here yesterday with their head on the bench.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0124par0079	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0129par0081	Mr. President, lawmakers, we're negotiating a bag of laws, and this bag of laws is about the law, which includes materials that are thought to have solved some of the citizens' problems in preparation for the election, but it's about the appointment of teachers. Of course, before considering these issues, I would like to remind you that the hunger limit in Turkey is the hunger limit of a family of four. The hunger limit of a family of four in Turkey is $1,301. How much is the minimum wage in Turkey? $949. Now, I want these two numbers to be in everyone's good, memory like this. Now, with this law, the teachers have been appointed teachers, who have been given the news of the appointment of 47 thousand teachers, the parents are happy, our friends who are waiting for the appointment are happy, but I want to remind them of one fact -- this is the wrong number -- 35,000 teachers will be appointed, not the right number, and will be appointed by December 2015. So don't think that when this law comes out, tomorrow our teachers, 35,000 teachers, will be appointed and will begin their work immediately. No, they'll be assigned until December 2015. Right here, I want to say something to my fellow teachers: I hope they make this appointment before the election, 35,000 people. If they don't, on June 7th, in the power of the Republican People's Party, on June 8th, we'll appoint 35,000 people, plus 160,000 new teachers, as stated by our Deputy Director of the Group. Again, now, with this law, you bring dowry and housing allowance. Oh, for God's sake, I beg you, for God's sake, why do you deceive our young brothers and sisters who are counting on their beautiful feelings to build a home? Why are you fooling me? So to get 5,000 liras of help, $25,000 must be saved in three years. So the average amount of 700 euros per month needs to be saved. I just said the number, I said the minimum wage of $949. The Ford factory employs 6,500 young people, an art school graduate and a two-year university of applied sciences graduate, charging 1,200 lira. Now, is there any chance that this friend will deposit 700 lira a month and get dowry money in three years? In fact, I'm going to go a little further, there's going to have to be $75,000 in savings, and in order to get $15,000 in housing allowance, he's going to have to deposit $2,000 a month. In order to invest $2,000 a month, a person must receive at least $4,000 a month without having children, without anyone to care for. I'm asking you, what percentage of Turkey gets 4,000 lira monthly? Don't mock the mind, I say, don't fool our children, our people. Look, in the Republican People's Party's government, all of this will be resolved with family insurance. If you're such a big economy, what you have to do is really, in Turkey, people are having trouble getting married. You'll come out here like lions: we'll give every young man married five thousand dollars for dowry. So you're not going to tell a bank for three years, and we're going to help a family who's already got a first-time residence. You're going to say 15,000, and I'm going to give you a round of applause. Why do you deceive these people, why do you mock their minds, why do you hope for these people? There's no such thing, friends, stop exploiting this election investment, and stop exploiting the union that these people are going to make for a home with so much emotion. You abuse religion, abuse the family, abuse the home. For God's sake! For God's sake! I'm saying do the right thing. Again, you're deceiving our children. You say we're the great country, we're the great economy. You say we're the 17th. For years, you've gone up to 19, you don't use 19. In fact, you can remove it, you can change it with a perception, which is greater than 19, 17. Look, older friends from 19, 17 are mathematically larger, you can use this because you cheat because you don't tell people the truth. You're saying that we're canceling our students' tuitions, their contribution, their overpaid past. You were the big economy, why are you taking money from the students? Isn't there a chance in this country that a family who's paid $949 can get a child to study? What happened to the constitutional right that everyone had the right to education according to Article 42 of the Constitution? For thirteen years, you've destroyed people in the AKP government, reduced people to poverty, and continued to make them poor. Because your best job is to manage poverty. There's a solution to everything, to managing poverty... In the Republican People's Party's rule, from June 7th, no one will be poor in Turkey, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0130par0090	CHP went to the Constitutional Court and robbed municipalities of the right to grant scholarships. The CHP did this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0131par0091	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the fourth paragraph of Article 28 of the current bill proposal 705, we propose and propose that the term "placement" be changed into "bullied." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0132par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0131par0098	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0133par0099	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0131par0100	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0134par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, the last-minute motions of this bag of law have always become a habit of the AK PARTY. So, first we came up with a motion on the 28th article, and then right after that, a motion on the removal of the VAT in this oil transport, and immediately after that, the motion on the 28th article has been changed, and the 29th article has been brought here as a matter violation. Now, we'll discuss that in a moment. Let us first tell you that we, the People's Democratic Party, are a very sensitive party to the victims of our hardworking people, our poor people. Apart from the arrangement of our citizens who have a dwelling in the Zonguldak Coal Basin, who have a home, whose property is in conflict with the treasure, who have been victimised, as the Peoples' Democratic Party, especially the BTAC, and the transport related to the oil pipelines of the Blue Stream, I would like to warn our people from here that something is being done. Look, look at the transport of the Kerkuk-Egg Oil Pipeline. It's all done in international contracts. The international contract is coming here, and they have to put an international contract, a government-signed, state-bound, reciprocity principle into a bag of laws with a last-minute motion, which companies, which shipping companies, which countries, what billion dollars they're going to spend, and from here they're going to have to explain. Friends, Turkey consumes the most expensive gas, Turkey pays the most expensive gas tax, Turkey consumes the most expensive fuel, Turkey gives the most expensive taxes, indirect taxes in the world -- like, mazotta, fuel -- Turkey. Well, why don't you give the citizen a tax exemption? Why is there no immunity for the citizen? Why don't you tax the citizen? Corporates, corporations, corporations, you guys, you guys, you're always carving for yourself! You've formed your partnership in Azerbaijan, you've partnered in Russia, you've partnered in Iraq, your companies are clear. You've also made Turkey's Oil Anonymous a partner. You're taking him out of here, not in a ladle, you're taking him in a wagon. But you're kicking a citizen's ass. You get 80% indirect tax. These indirect taxes are taxed in gasoline, taxed in mazotta, taxed in natural gas, taxed, taxed, taxed, taxed, taxed, taxed in restaurants, shops, shops, textiles, agriculture, production, everywhere. And the owner of this stake... it's enough to throw this stake at this citizen in power! It's the end of the semester, enough with the taxes! Enough with the tax exemption!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0135par0108	Shall we turn it down a little?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0134par0109	You don't like what I'm saying, do you? You're having a hard time telling me, aren't you?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0135par0110	No, you're too loud.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0134par0111	You're very happy when your companies win, aren't you? You think you can change international contracts here with these last-minute motions? You think you're gonna break the Civil Code here? You put the Plan and Budget Commission there: we have a majority of votes, the Commission changes what it wants, does everything. Of course, you make a motion, you make a man a woman a man, you have power. That makes sense, your sense of democracy. You've reduced your sense of democracy to this point. You're going the wrong way, you're going the wrong way, you're going the wrong way! I warn you: look, you've taken it away, you've taken it away, you can't take it away. On June 7th, we will cut the hoses of your companies and all of them. In these elections, we're going to tell the public one by one. Who you've made rich, which companies you've made rich, which companies you've made rich, which companies you've supported in the mine, oil, energy, which holdings in the press, we'll continue in the other matter. We'll continue with the formal debate, the matter debate, my friends. Greetings.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0136par0117	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 705 S. On Article 28 of the Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose the addition of the bell below. "d" is the second sentence of Article 8 (d) of Article 3194 (d) dated 3/5/1985 and the second sentence of Building Law 3194, Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0137par0124	Mr. President, what is the purpose of this motion, sir? Can the Commission give us any information?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0136par0125	Mr. Commission, please.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0138par0126	Mr. President, as stated by the motion, right now the Ministry of Culture and Tourism or other ministries have the authority to plan and approve, present and present. However, this arrangement leaves this authority to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's mandates. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has conflicted in its duties and powers, while the applicants are trapped among the ministries or are victimised by different practices. It is appropriate that the proposed amendment be made to resolve the confusion and end the jurisdictional confusion.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0136par0127	Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0138par0129	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0136par0130	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0139par0131	We'll take it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0140par0132	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit07spe0136par0133	I'm reading the reason: Under Article 4 of the Building Law 3194, special law enforcement is an exception to the Building Law, and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism or other ministries have the authority to plan and approve. However, part of the second sentence of Article 8 (d) and the specific laws under which the Law is considered an exception, the planning authority of the areas is granted to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. This is a conflict in the duties and powers of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which are authorized by special laws, and the applicants are stuck between ministries or are victims of different practices. It is fitting that the proposed amendment be made to resolve the confusion and end the confusion of authority. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit08spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, there are two motions for the new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. So, I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, mostly if the Commission joins in the motion with only 21 members, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I'm going to remove the motion from the process. Now I'm going to read the first motion...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0141par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0136par0008	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0141par0009	This is about the motion that was passed to us... Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, there is a very clear verdict, according to 87, that there is no renegotiation of matter. So, since such an offer has not been made to the Parliamentary Chair before, since it has not been made to the Commission, since it has not been included in the Commission report, such a clause violation cannot be made due to Article 29 of Article 29 of the AK PARTI Group.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0136par0010	Yes, Mr. Kaplan, I'm going to open up a discussion of procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0141par0012	It's a formal debate...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0142par0013	It's in favor, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0143par0014	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0144par0015	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0145par0016	Again, of course, I'd like a word, but, Mr. President, this is not a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0017	Now, Mr. Kaplan, there are different applications on this subject.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0145par0018	Different practices are your presidency during the presidency of AKP MPs. Normally...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0019	Right, right.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0145par0020	Thank you. Look how well you've confirmed it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0021	But in the past administrations, one of the deputy presidents said, "I'm changing my mind." He said, "I haven't changed my mind yet." You can change your mind about that from time to time.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0145par0022	Now, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0023	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0147par0024	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0148par0025	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0026	Yes, in favor, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0149par0027	Alehyte...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0028	Mr. Kaplan is against you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0150par0029	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0146par0030	It's full. Yes, Mr. Kubat, please. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP has asked for a word in favor.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0151par0036	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of the position of our President in the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, I would first like to point out that the General Assembly has different applications in this matter, because there is also a lack of agreement in new materials, and there is also a lack of substance abuse in these proposals. Now, the law we have discussed is a fundamental law, and this fundamental law is how to discuss it in Article 91, and how to submit a motion on it, and in the fourth joke of the 87th Article of our Civil Charter, the bill or proposal, which is seen in the commission text, will be discussed as a new clause on proposals that are not included in the commission text, but are very closely related to the bill or proposal, and the commission is often involved. Now, we've made a motion for a new clause violation, and Mr. President has opened it up by processing it, and he's going to ask the Commission. Now, dear friends, there is another clause in Article 3 of the Law Proposal No. 3065, which we have proposed. So, in the fourth joke of article 87, we've proposed a clause that could be associated with the bill and the proposal. This proposal is to be followed immediately by Article 3065 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law, which, in Article 4 of the Article 4 of the Law, should be carried out in a manner similar to this in the past, but it has also been done in reverse. So, there's no order in the Civil Code that should be carried out in the following matter immediately. So, one thing is, if it's not banned, it's freedom. As a matter of fact, when we look at the whole of this proposal in terms of integrity, what we're proposing here is that it is also a violation of Article 3065, which is part of the scope of that proposal. Thus, the position of the presidency at the point of processing this proposal is appropriate. However, since there have been different practices before, and there has been no General Assembly decision on this matter, according to the latest joke of Article 63, I also propose that our President present his position on this matter, based on further practices, to the approval of the General Assembly, with respect to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0152par0042	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0153par0043	Mr. President, I will speak instead of Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0154par0044	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0152par0045	Mr. Ozturk wanted it in favor, so I'll promise against it, and then I'll promise you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0153par0046	Sorry, sorry...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0152par0047	Yes, now, it's Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0155par0049	Mr. President, let's get the transcripts first, let's read them. Your beautiful experience, in your vast experience, you said: "This new substanceism cannot be discussed." Let's get the transcripts, Mr. President, what happened to you? Now, one, this is a new clause violation, it didn't come to the Commission.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0156par0051	There's a law on it.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0155par0052	You're going to call it an relevant law, and you're going to bring all the laws and put them in this bag?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0156par0053	Article 3 is about the law.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0155par0054	Then why the Civil Code? Why do the bids go to the Speakership? Why is it coming from there to Plan and Budget? Why doesn't he go from there to the Energy Commission? Why doesn't he go to the Foreign Affairs Commission? Why don't they pass international contracts through the European Union Commission, not through the Foreign Commission, not through the Energy Commission? You bring everything here because of the torba. Why isn't that in your Commission report? Look, you're not doing your homework. If I were Mr. Mayor, I wouldn't make any of you a candidate for Congress. What kind of a thing is that? Bags, bags, you can't do your job till the last minute. You're gonna do your job right, brother. Look, you've made two motions about the same thing, 28. Watch out, look, there are two motions from the AKP deputy leader, one in 28, one in 29. One of them -- look, look, look -- is being exempted from the VAT -- is coming as the 29th Amendment. They pulled the 28 of them back. E, brother, the same motion; make 28 (29) 29 (29). Well, Mr. President Yakut told you that this clause is non-negotiable. He has a statement, and we're going to get it. Because he didn't come, he didn't pass through the Commission, he didn't get the Commission's opinion, he didn't write the report, he didn't distribute it to parliament, he didn't discuss it. But aside from this international contract, brother, there's a 90th article of the Constitution, if there's a tax issue, there's an international contract, you apply it, why do you do business for us, do chores for us? Let's get to the truth. Friends, which companies benefit from the transportation of these pipelines, the delivery and services of oil, so why don't you come out and explain it to me. TANAP, BTC, Blue Stream, Kerkuk-Egg, explain to which company you gave the oil pipeline from Kerkuk-Egg to Zaho. Explain to me how billions of dollars can get away with these last-minute motions, and that's for the public to know. You know, it's this time of night, because we're tired, these kind of motions can't be discussed.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0157par0059	An article passed by the Industrial Commission, was discussed there.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0155par0060	Friends, the majority of your commission has arrived... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A man can't make a man a woman. It's that simple, that's all! Figure it out.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0157par0064	Look at the text of the Industrial Commission, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0155par0065	Mr. President, bring in the reports, you have a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0158par0066	Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who wants to speak in Polish. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0159par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the President's position. Now, let's go back to the initial situation before this motion. Mr. President has read this motion before. In fact, there is a motion for a change in the Law on Value Tax Number 3065, but it is not in effect that this motion, which should be discussed after Article 3 (3065), should be discussed after Article 3065, has not been submitted. He said, "Mr. President. Later, Zonguldak gave the Republican People's Party Group's motion to the General Assembly's information, summing up the motion, saying that this is a new supply of matter, like the other one, which is not in the proposal text, which I do not process because it is not in the proposal text. Then, again, he read another proposal of similar nature and said, "I'm not processing it." All three of them weren't involved in this offer. Then, it was a break. There's been some talks. We, the Republican People's Party, have shared with them our opinion, our opinion, that the arrangement to resolve the Zonguldak property issue should be brought here and resolved. As a result, it was said: "Let the proposal for Zonguldak take place here." In this framework, let the General Assembly enter this proposal, which envisions a change in the Law on Values. In this frame, we discuss the motions. Mr. President's first position is in favor of me, since it's a new substance requirement, it's not given in time, so I don't process it. That's the attitude we're in favor of. I passed on the following development, this motion came in this frame, so I don't see any situation here where the General Assembly will be put in the game or change the president's initial position. If the People's Democratic Party says I don't agree with this motion in any way, then let's take a break and have another meeting. Otherwise, I don't think it should be put to a vote. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0160par0075	Thank you. Now, if it's Oktay Vural who wants a word against...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0161par0077	I'd say he's had enough.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0160par0078	You're giving up. Thank you. Members of parliament, we have listened to the arguments in favour and against the procedure debate on the adoption of the motion for the new clause violation. I'd like to submit to the General Assembly's votes that the President's new amendment motion should be carried out in accordance with the ruling that the president can apply for the vote if necessary, after the procedure meeting in Article 63 of the Civil Code: All those in favor of continuing the new motion for substance abuse...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0162par0082	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit09spe0160par0083	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0160par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to continue the motion was not enough in the vote following the procedure discussion on the new clause violation of the Law Proposal of 705 rows. Now, I submit to your votes that the motion to proceed with the motion for the new clause shall be carried out, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision has a sufficient number and has been accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0163par0007	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0160par0008	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0163par0011	Thank you. Mr. President, during today's General Assembly session, as deputy leader of a political party, I have expressed our concerns about the developments in the region and a request for both our party and the General Assembly to be informed. According to current reports, assessments from Iranian officials regarding the operation in Yemen are being reported on news sites that could be the cause of a major regional war. In the same way, the Turkish President and Mr. Erdogan have made statements that he will provide any logistical support for the operation here in Yemen. Thus, we face a very serious, grave situation that could trigger a major sectal war, a major regional war, which could bring Turkey and Iran to face in this sense. In this regard, we repeat our motion to have the Council General Assembly informed. For six hours, for eight hours, an official from the State Department would have been able to consider the political request of the Parliamentary General Assembly and come here and inform us of the developments. If that's not an option, then the ministers representing the government are here, and the ministers can come out and inform us of these grave developments. Otherwise, we'll make a statement that the government has disregarded the will of Parliament for a situation almost in the position of war. So, we're repeating our request, Mr. ministers, to inform the General Assembly immediately about these developments that could bring Turkey and Iran against the war dimension. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0164par0016	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Yes, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to know if he'll be informed or when he'll be briefed.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0165par0019	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for these developments in our country outside our country, I'm convinced that the Deputy Minister of the Precious Group will be able to inform our fellow ministers of this request, if possible, during the work of Parliament, about this matter tomorrow -- since I don't know the parliamentary work schedule -- in the shortest time possible -- to do what they need to do about it. Mr. President's assessment is entirely his own discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0166par0023	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0167par0024	He's making war decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0168par0025	Mr. President says we're going to be okay. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0167par0026	The House decides to fight, there's been a mistake here.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0169par0030	Yes, I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to the current Law Proposal 705 rows to include the following item and other substances to be identified. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Yusuf Başer Hakan Çağoğlu Hilmi Bilgin It is dated 29-25/10/1984 and added the following temporary clause to the Law on Adding Value Tax No. 3065. "Second to those who carried out the construction and modernisation of the transit oil pipeline projects, which have been imposed in accordance with the rules of inter-national agreements on the Pipelines of Oil 23/6/2000 and under the Transit Passage of 4586 under the Law, have been excluded from the value of added tax on international agreements, which have been imposed on the construction and modernisation of the transit oil pipeline projects from 1/1/2014. Taxes imposed on the basis of property deliveries and service duties are deducted from tax-related transactions. Unrefundable taxes are extradited under Article 32, under the request of the taxpayer who makes an exception. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to define delivery and services that will include exceptions, exceptions, and restitution procedures." Yes, Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? Do you have only a majority?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0170par0042	Mr. President, there are only so many of us. We agree with the motion as the Commission, mostly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0169par0043	Yes, since the Commission has only attended the motion so much, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0171par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0169par0045	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0171par0046	Since the Commission has made a new decision on the new clause violations, we will have motions according to the Civil Code 89. Because it's a new substance. Since there's a new substance clause, we have the right to both talk and motion. Take a break from that right, so...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0169par0047	No, we're giving a speech.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0171par0048	No, you'll give a speech, we'll make a motion. So, we're just gonna make a quick motion? For God's sake, don't do this!
tbmm-2015-03-26sit10spe0169par0049	I'll take a break to prepare a motion, okay. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. Anyone want a word on the matter?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0172par0005	Mr. President, we would like a word, of course.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0173par0006	The Alim Light will speak on behalf of the group, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0174par0007	Akif Hamzacebi will speak for the group, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0175par0008	On the matter, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of HDP Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik and CHP Group will speak on behalf of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0176par0010	President, thank you. Mr. President, I have written the transcripts, and I read exactly what you have to say as acting President, who is the most experienced lawyer in the House, who claims to know the Civil Code best: the second clause in the joint of the proposal, which was considered the main law, according to Article 91. Members of parliament have reached our presidency of two amendment proposals for the new clause violation. However, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and his friends have a motion to add a temporary clause to Level Value Tax Act 3065. This motion cannot be processed because the third article must be submitted after its talks and the order of the transaction has passed. Now, Mr. President, if you run this way, if the Commission meets here for a motion you haven't processed, and there are 40 members of the ruling party members of the Plan and Budget Commission -- and there are 40 members -- the Plan and Budget Commission -- you vote in a manner of arguing here, and then you place the motion given by the ruling party group to the law, and then you commit the new clause to the group, and then you make a pledge here on behalf of the groups. Now, don't they ask: what does the State Department do? We're asking: what does the State Department do, friends?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0177par0015	It won't do any good.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0176par0016	Is there a technical commission for making such contracts? I do.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0178par0017	It's a tax arrangement.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0176par0018	Is there an Industrial and Energy Commission? I do. The Minister of Energy shows up on TV every day. Energy Minister: TANAP, BTC, before that Blue Stream, now Kurdish oil gas, oil deals with Kurdistan Regional Management in Iraq, and the latest Kandil region oil search licenses, all of them. Now, here, with a last-minute motion, you're bringing billions of dollars worth of VAV exceptions to the law -- not given to the Parliament, not transferred to the commission, not discussed in the commission, not heard in the commission -- and then you're bringing it in after that. The VAT exception you've brought here is a general clause with this motion, friends, look at it in general. In accordance with the laws of international agreements on the crossing of oil pipelines through transit, you say. I'm asking you now: Turkey's Oil Association made deals with Iraq-Kurdistan Regional Management. Three or four of them are very close to power, and the people who own the ruling press -- I won't count their names -- are partners here. In the government, very important names -- some of them -- are directly involved in these companies. You know, there's an oil pipeline between Kerkuk-Zaho. His transport is generally done over a certain percentage, 8%. But these companies, for the sake of privilege, are given much cheaper than Kurdish gas, oil, Russia, or even brother Azerbaijan. Now, at that rate, there's a shipment at the price of 15 products. Now, do you know how many billions are in their pockets -- a proposal, a quickie in five minutes -- when companies who take this transport, get rid of the VAT in this tender business? Is this Parliament going to work for someone, make a special law on someone? Is this Parliament going to work so someone can win over their company? Is that what this House's work is for? The interests of the country... Now, in TANAP, in BTC, in the Blue Stream... which was also in court, you know. You know how much smoke came out of the Blue Stream. Now, how many countries are in the TANAP? Caucasus countries, take Russia, take Azerbaijan, go through Turkey -- Turkey is a bridge, transit pass -- they come to the gate, where they go to Europe. Now, does this carry natural gas through this oil pipeline, folks? He's gonna carry a tanker? What's the VAT of this transport, since it won't carry tankers? Turkey receives a right-of-pass fee and takes it as a state. Turkey gets paid to store them and send them, yes, that's right. Well, I'll ask you now: if you have so much VAT, oil sensitivity, now look at the ring of fire that Turkey is in. Is there a civil war with Russia and an interstate war in Ukraine? I do. Does it directly affect Turkey? It does. Is there a war in Syria? I do. Is Turkey affecting the situation? It does. Is there a civil war in Iraq, is there ISIS, is there an attack? I do. Is Turkey affecting the situation? It does. It's not enough, now there's a war in Yemen. In Yemen, the President declares the war in Yemen: "We will help it with all our might. The decision of war is being made. When the war is decided, the House is bypassed, the House is not informed, Parliament is not speaking. It's a war decision. There's a phone call with Obama. Turkey and Iran are facing a war situation, in danger. Now, isn't all this going to affect the whole oil pipeline thing? Do you think oil, natural gas will flow from these pipelines, from the TANAP, in the event of a war? Now, with all this danger, with Turkey on the brink of war, with Shii-Sunni on the foreign policy axis, with the wrongs of a government that drives foreign policy in the ideological kinship code, we can't talk about all this at this hour in a fire circle while Turkey is in a very dangerous situation in this Parliament, but someone is giving special bags to the law to make exceptions to the VAT tax. Well, friends, don't you have any conscience to question it? What does a spark in Turkey's ring of fire do to Turkey, and what does it do to Turkey? In Syria, the work in Iraq is in the hands of Turkey, whether you accept it or not. Also through Yemen -- already part of the Iranian conflict process in Syria -- is to face a danger from both the Syrian front and the Iranian front. Now we don't talk about these dangers, but you're trying to get someone to take advantage of the VAT, make a motion to get billions into their safes, against the Civil Code, as well as to send them away at the last hour, at the last hour of Mr. Faithful Yakut. Well, that's not classy, either, and that's not very nice of you to stand up to your own Deputy Speaker, and that's not appropriate. You made him do the wrong thing. He's had a bit of a discussion to keep you from getting upset, and you're used to it. But Mr. Idris Bauken will continue on the motion. We'll just give you our historical warning from here. Pull this motion, let's discuss serious matters.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0179par0025	Thank you. Alim Ik, Kütahya MP who has asked for the People's Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0180par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the clause added as a new clause to the Law Proposal 705 that we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. This is a clause in the Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Commission, which completed its talks on March 18, 2015, and was part of the Law on Electrical Market and Changes in Some Laws. During the commission talks, we, the National Movement Party, said that this clause was a proper regulation because the international contract on the TANAP project, which was launched as of 1/1/2014, is 2.2. In Article 8 of the 8th article, this exemption was expressed. In fact, we asked the Minister, why did we say 2014? When we said, let's take it back to 2015 or 2016, he said that this arrangement is only related to the project, called the TATAAP Τ, and that this date should be as follows, because it is the date of that project's contract. So, after that explanation, we were relieved. So it's just that an international project has been excluded from the value-appropriate tax, which has already been established according to the agreement. With this arrangement, at least the Ministry of Finance should be considered positive -- which property and services will be kept within this scope -- to receive an exceptional, restrictive authority. Because any project related to international pipelines could also have broader regulations on the goods or services involved. For him, it was also explained to the members of the Commission that this project, which began on 1/1/2014, would not bring any weight back. In fact, I asked, what goods and services have been made for the rest of the project so far? Therefore, what is the loss of the treasure, do you have a study of it? When we said that there was no significant production of goods and services until this date, we freely went through this material without much discussion, when the government made it clear that it would not bring too much weight as a tax loss to the treasure, perhaps not at all. 2.2 of the contract in question. The sentence included in Article 8 of Article 8 is: The delivery of all goods and services to the TANAP Project Company regarding the construction and taste of the TANAP System is exempted from VAT. This is Article 23. The VAT exemption is valid as of 1 January 2014, according to 1, and is referred to as the date of 1 January 2014. Therefore, this arrangement is in place, in order that Turkey will not suffer in the future due to an international agreement under this agreement, such as any arbitration and so on: Of course, it is not polite for the commission to withdraw from its passed legislation by such a late-night motion, and to make such a decision based on the ruling party's numerical majority. This is an application that will lead further. Although a few issues have been brought to the agenda of the General Assembly in the same way before, it is not true, and we are critical of that. Our second review: there was another important clause in that bill. I said, "Let's put this in one of the bag laws, and let's make this arrangement that supports domestic production that will be used in investments in renewable energy sources in Turkey." I personally think it would be much more appropriate for our country to be replaced by this clause. And since that path has been opened, I think it would be appropriate for the local investors to put this bag into the law, encouraging that domestic manufacturing support that we see is very important. In summation: This arrangement is a technical arrangement, a change that must be made according to the previous agreement, but based on that, who earns what, how much tax is excluded, of course, that conscientious responsibility belongs to power. If the Minister told us that there is no significant amount in the Commission to be excluded from the tax on this project so far, there is no problem if it is true that there is no serious work. Other than that, there's a thought, and neither the Commission nor the General Assembly are aware of it, but those who know it are subject to it. Therefore, if such a negativity is involved, I would like to state that his conscientious responsibility is in the government. Again, I'd like to reiterate: since you've actually started this kind of practice that the General Assembly gives a surprise to local investors every day in this bag of law talks, I would like to say that if you're going to open the way for investors in the wind, in the sun, in biogas, in biomass, and so forth, and bring that arrangement that has passed through the Commission, we should have done a good job here. With such thoughts, it is not a very bad arrangement, or against it, but it should be passed here due to a technical obligation... if the Minister of Energy had brought this matter to the agenda of this Assembly in a normal way, in such a way he would not have brought it to the agenda of the General Assembly. Where was he, brother, the Minister of Energy, who's been signing this signature for almost two years? Why didn't he put this in the previous energy commission drafts, and it hit you at the last minute? Now there are some arrangements there. Perhaps next week, they will also be brought to the agenda of this General Assembly in the same way as some of the arrangements passed through the Commission and disputed -- the regulations related to the missing electricity. Let's not push this way too hard. The procedure is not an application in accordance with the rules of the Civil Code, but for technical reasons this obligation has come to the agenda of the General Assembly, which means that we support it as the Millitarian Movement Party Group, in order to ensure that a major project such as TANAP, in terms of Turkey's national interests, cannot be broken at least due to such a technical challenge.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0181par0041	Thank you. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0182par0045	Mr. President, the new item that we're interviewing includes an arrangement that envisions the exception of the value-appropriation taxes to the Added Value Tax Act, which will be assumed due to the construction of the TANAP oil pipeline, to be extradited to contractors. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's pipeline is, of course, a very nice thing to do. Turkey's geographical position is a country that must take on much greater roles in the energy market in the face of rising energy as well as its strategic position. Turkey is a great country, but unfortunately, it has failed to make the necessary breakthrough in energy. Construction of oil pipelines is not a foreign issue until now. Before we had the Kerkuk-Egg Oil Pipeline, then a natural gas -- maybe not oil -- was built with the Blue Stream Agreement, but then the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline was built again. All of this shows Turkey's experience in this matter. In previous applications, the construction of these pipelines is exceptional in international contracts related to Blue Stream and Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline. This is a requirement of Turkey's policy so far, an operation aimed at lowering costs, and in all international agreements, these constructions, natural gas pipelines, oil pipelines are exceptional in Turkey's signings. However, the exception of the added value tax is also arranged in both the Blue Stream and Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan (Ceyhan), which does not solve the problem if the construction, modernization of construction, companies that are responsible for the construction and modernisation of these pipelines are forced by other companies -- which, of course, will get goods and services, or will receive them directly from other companies -- during the purchase of these goods and services. Because the value of that goods and services that the companies that delivered to that company, the TANAP company, or the company that built Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan or the company that built the Blue Stream are on its own. Thus, at the final stage, the delivery of this property and service is an exception to the value-appropriate tax. Such exceptions are held in Article 17 of the Adding Value Tax Act. However, it is not an arrangement that will free the system from the tax of total added value. That's a partial exception. The exact exception arrangement is that companies who deliver goods and services to the company, such as Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan and the Blue Stream, as in the construction of the natural gas pipeline, do not collect value tax due to the delivery of these goods and services, but they receive the value tax that they were loaded with when they bought the goods and services themselves. That's an exception. This is the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan model and the Blue Stream model. Turkey has such a good experience ahead of it. The state knows this, the Finance Ministry IRS knows this very well, but the way the Justice and Development Party governments do business, because they don't know the state's customs, they didn't go along with it because they didn't know about the government's savings in the Finance Ministry. Turkey and Azerbaijan are signing an international agreement on the construction of the pipeline. Again, a host country agreement is signed between the company, which underpins construction under this international agreement, and the government of the Republic of Turkey, where a clause is written. The article is: The delivery of goods and services to be provided due to the construction of the TANAP pipeline is exempted from the VAT. There is no such exception. When you write this down, there's a partial exception, and companies that deliver goods and services to TANAP will not collect VAT from TANAP, but the value of their load will remain on their own. Therefore, this exception is of little use, so it does not eliminate the value tax to add to the construction. Again, according to the ruling in the agreement, this exception is valid as of January 1, 2014. It is now 2015, it is the end of March, we are going towards the election, going back to January 1, 2014, and there is a tax exception from that date. Dear friends, that's not gonna happen. So if you're making a deal, the government's units are put together, they're used to the experience of these units, and that's how you get a settlement. That's not going to happen; you're going back, you're going to January 1, 2014, and you're setting up an exception. Secondly, the writing of the substance is wrong. Look, the writing of the substance is wrong. Apart from the value tax on surrendering and services from 1/1/2014, the honorable MPs, Mr. President; I want to draw the special attention of the Presidential Court, and now, that's not how it's written. These are the exceptions. You turn around and you say to the matter of the law: the matter that is remembered -- the interim clause 34 -- is in effect in the history of publication, which is valid from 1/1/2014. The law technique requires this. You don't even follow procedure here when you're trying to correct a mistake. I don't approve of such a law-making technique. A year and a half later, I don't want to go back and bring an exception to my understanding of the state, but I'm saying that the construction of oil pipelines, of course, should be an exception to the added tax, but I don't find that in any way correct. Let's put it on another bill, and then we're stuck, so let's take it from there, put it here in the middle of the night with a motion. I don't think any of this is right. Yes, that's where I end my words. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0183par0057	Thank you. Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0184par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the matter on my own behalf. I hereby salute your high council. Trans Anadolu Gas Pipeline Project: According to estimates, world energy consumption is expected to increase by about 41 per cent by 2035. An important part of the huge increase in demand for energy is expected to be met from the region of our country. The Central Asia, Middle East and Russian Federation surrounding Turkey have 53 per cent of the world's current oil reserves and 71 per cent of natural gas reserves. About 53 percent of the world's oil and about 70 per cent of the world's natural gas have become important for the security of pipelines and narrow waterways. Turkey, whose strong and sustainable economy is adjacent to rich natural gas and oil reserves, along with its foreign policy and a sense of stable governance that aims for peace, will continue to serve as a safe bridge between resource countries and consumer markets. Turkey is at the crossroads of the world's energy trade. Turkey uses its position and vision to carry out international pipeline projects for Western countries that need energy from countries in the region with oil and natural gas sources. Our country, located in a geopolitically important region, is rapidly implementing the east, west, north, south energy corridors. While Turkey is developing projects to meet its energy demand, it is implementing various European-directed projects via Turkey to meet the growing demand for Europe. The change and transformation of Turkey since 2002 also opened the way for the region's energy resources to our country and to Europe. The Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan crude oil pipeline and Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum natural gas pipeline were successfully activated during this period. These projects have been taken the first steps towards establishing a link to eastern-western energy. Taking great importance in cooperation and the creation of political will, Turkey, along with Azerbaijan, has taken an important step towards developing the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, the TANAP project, to ensure that the Caspian gas can be delivered to Europe. The TANAP project will contribute Turkey and Europe to boost natural gas supply security through the country's diversity of routes and sources. Precious lawmakers, the TANAP project, which will form the main backbone of the southern gas corridor, and the introduction of the Shahdeniz gas to Turkey and Europe, and further, the gas produced in other areas in Azerbaijan, and other Caspian gasses are intended to be delivered to Turkey and Europe again. In June 2012, the TANAP project signed an intergovernmental agreement and a government agreement with its host, revealed the political support of Azerbaijan and Turkey for the project, as well as the legal and commercial infrastructure of the project. The first stage of the TANAP project, signed in May 2014, was the Shahdeniz site, where the share of Turkish Oil Anonymous was increased from 9 per cent to 19 per cent, and TPAO became the field's second-largest partner in the field after BP. In addition, the stake in the BOTASH project has been increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent. The 6 billion cubic cubic metres of Shahdeniz Phase-II gas, estimated to be carried in the first phase with the TANAP Pipeline System, will be connected to the national network and will be used in Turkey, and 10 billion cubic metres will be transferred to Europe. Deliberate lawmakers aim to gradually increase their transport capacity to 22 billion cubic metres and then 31 billion cubic metres. The groundbreaking ceremony of the TANAP system, which will be approximately 1,900km long, was launched on 17 March 2015, with the presence of our President and the presidents of Azerbaijan and Georgia. We plan to start gas supplies for Turkey at the end of the pipeline in 2018 and Europe in 2020. The TANAP project, which is estimated to cost about $10 billion, will also make significant contributions to our country's overall economy with new jobs and employment opportunities. I wish this project well. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0185par0072	Thank you. There's no further demands. No questions. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: 29. We demand and demand that it be removed as a violation of the Amendment and the Constitution. Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0186par0082	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0185par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0187par0084	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0185par0085	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0188par0087	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, we only said that this was against the Constitution and the Civil Code, but this whole law-making technique is filled with articles that are contrary to the Constitution, and unfortunately the AKP has made it a habit. So at this time of night, we're talking about a bag of non-serious, unrelated issues being filled. There are a lot of problems on this country's agenda, and there are dangers bells that we've been trying to express since then, but at this hour, this bag is talking about the rate that the law is going to give oil companies. I'm sure on behalf of our people, in the name of a country that's really so devoid of people, so cut off from the country, so far off from the agenda, the practice of Congress is being followed by a great deal of nobody. Here, imagine, in the daytime, when the General Assembly first opened, I pointed out a danger to our country, to our people. Turkey is rapidly being brought to the brink of a war with its actual foreign policies, and Parliament can't even run any information agenda on this issue. So it's been almost nine or ten hours, we've asked Mr. Secretary of State for information, the Turkish Foreign Ministry is making a statement, the President is making a statement, we're involved in the war in Yemen, we're going to provide all kinds of logistics. But we want to know what Turkey has to do with this conflict in Yemen. On this important issue, we have an understanding that even in the matter of bringing this war situation, the House has disregarded its will. So from your point of view, it's more important to put a stake in the pockets of some of the companies who are allies than the country's war threat. So if you've been talking about this for eight or nine hours, and you're not reporting about the war, the threat of war, that's what we're getting out of here. In particular, the situation in which you have brought Turkey to Turkey in the Middle East and Syria policy is clear. You of all people know how the selefi groups that you've raised by your own hand, supported by your own hands, have caused trouble to the Middle Eastern people, how they've done massacres to the Middle Eastern people. Through such an adventure line, we are now faced with the fact that a conflict led by Egypt and Saudi Arabia in Yemen is a part of the war. There's been a long conflict over the sect, and there's been a danger that's been getting more and more triggered and turning the entire region into a fire. But we don't know how Turkey's position, how Turkey's foreign policy was shaped, what debates were carried out, what positions were taken after which debates, and none of them. In particular, of course, I'm not surprised by the current state of the AKP, so you've made it almost a habit to drag this country into disaster through an artificially-axis foreign policy, but there is the same silence in opposition parties. We haven't heard a single sentence from the Republican People's Party or the National Movement Party. You support AKP's policies that bring the country to the brink of war with such silence, we cannot possibly accept it. I mean, is this the sole subject of the HDP? HDP wants a general meeting, he makes a motion for it, he wants an update on the General Assembly, why doesn't the Minister of Foreign Affairs come to the Parliament and inform them? If the ruling party is doing wrong here, we think it should be the opposition's duty to eliminate the real agenda of the House as opposition, the real threat of war ahead of our country. I consider it unfortunate, especially at this hour, to talk this way about this motion. I hope we'll sit in this House with the real agenda of Congress and the people and talk about our real problems before they're put in great danger. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0189par0094	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0190par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0189par0096	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0190par0097	There's a risk to something like this, and that's what we're discussing. There are developments in the threat of war, the National Movement Party is not saying anything about them. Excuse me for two minutes...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0189par0098	Here you go, Mr. Vural. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0190par0102	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we find the Justice and Development Party's foreign policy and domestic policy very wrong. There's a government that negotiates its sinking in foreign policy with terrorist organizations, taking steps to legitimize the domination of terrorist organisations in our geography. That is exactly what is called the spirit of the wife. Those who took our homeland and brought it to another place, in terms of their legitimacy, welcome it as the spirit of marriage, and are shaped by terrorist organisations, including the state of Turkey's foreign policy and policy within. In Mosul, including our consul, the terrorist organization is coming and taking our citizens hostage. Our land is there, we can't protect it. The Imralı is being negotiated with the terrorist organisation and is being made part of the talks with Turkey's Republic of Turkey's Constitution, its homeland, its nation's terrorist organisations. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we certainly don't see any attempt to kill people as a tool, and in this way, we see that the Justice and Development Party's foreign policy in the Middle East, especially the softness of Turkey's foreign policy in this civilization, rather than using brute force, is actually a product of a conflicting approach in this geography, creating new faults based on ethnic identity and sects. We want peace there. The element of peace is an initiative based on ethnic and sects, not on conflict; together, together, to create peace in this basin of civilization. We also have our criticism that this policy of the Justice and Development Party has driven Turkey away from the peace climate that our economies and civilisation have created in this geography, and that it is becoming increasingly a part of the armed force. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0191par0107	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0192par0112	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-26sit11spe0191par0113	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
