tbmm-2015-07-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the Third Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I will have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The 24th General Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliamentary Assembly (OSCEPA) will be held in Helsinki, Finland from 5 July to 9 July 2015. During the planned meeting, an election will be held for OSCEPA chiefs, vice presidents and vice presidents of OSCEPA committees. It is also said that it would be helpful for our OSCEPA Turkish Group members to attend the meeting because of the importance of the meeting. With this reputation, the parliamentary rankings of Turkish delegations have not yet been created, and the delegation of the political party groups, which will be reported once and for all, will be presented to the General Assembly of the OSCEPA of the 24th General Assembly of the OSCE, dated 28/3/1990 and under the 9th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. All those in favor, all those in denial. Sustained. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. We will continue the election of the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the last session, the election of the President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly failed to produce two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitutional Assembly. Now we begin the third vote. The total number of members in this vote will be called a simple majority, at least 276 votes. As you know, if the third vote cannot hold a majority, the fourth vote will be held for the two most-voted candidates, and the most-voting candidate in the fourth vote will be the President. I'm rereading the names of the candidates for the Speakership, according to the alphabetical order of the electoral circles, as they appear on the sealed ballot: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Candidate List: [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat [[Mersin]] [[Sivas]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. I propose how the secret vote will be held: From the clerk members of the commission and the government, the clerks at the commission, from Adana to Denizli, including Denizli -- including Denizli -- and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul -- including Istanbul -- the clerk members from İzmir to Mardin -- from Mardin to Mersin to Zonguldak, and from the book will give the letter of a sealed ballot to the MP, including Zonguldak. He will use the vote, after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, he will enter the voting booth, and he will mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign, and then he will place the ballot in the envelope in front of the presidential court in front of the stand. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I'd like to introduce the members of the vote's attention: When voting, only the square in front of one of the candidates will be marked, and the ballots marked by more than one candidate will be invalid. The cabins are put in the same colorless pens, and the members will use these pens. In any case, the vote will be invalidated, in any case other than a sign, signature, scribble, or pen in the cabins. The current ballot will carry no sign except the preferred cross sign. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Sealed ballots and envelopes to be used in the third vote are to be handed over to the members of the clerk. Members of parliament, a five-person collection commission will be determined by drawing a name for the census and transcript of the vote. The members of our clerks' commission, elected members, will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Mr. Genghis Tokmak, Sinop? Here. Master Erhan, Samsun? Here. Mr. Ilyas Candy? Here. Mr. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Mr. Umit Özdağ, Gaziantep... Mr. Umit Özdağ, Gaziantep?
tbmm-2015-07-01sit01spe0002par0050	No, no, no.
tbmm-2015-07-01sit01spe0001par0051	Mr. Gülay Backup, Istanbul? Here. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Genghis Tokmak, Sinop MP; Erhan Usta, Samsun MP; Ilyas Şeker, Kopeeli MP; Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP; Gülay Baskci, İstanbul MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's 3rd election for President of the Grand National Assembly (3rd) 548 members participated in the round, the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Genghis Tokmak Erhan Master Ilyas Candy Sinop Samsuni Member Antalya MP Deniz Baykal 129 İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu 80 Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat 78 Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz 259 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not have the only majority envisioned in the Constitution. Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz and Antalya MP Deniz Baykal, who received the most votes in this vote, will be elected president, who received the most votes in the 4th vote. We will now begin the fourth vote. I read the names of the two candidates who received the most votes in the third vote in alphabetical order, according to the sealed ballot: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Candidate List: [[Antalya]] [[Sivas]] Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first place. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Seal ballots and envelopes will be delivered to the members of the clerks. Now I'm going to draw a name for the count and transcript of the vote and identify a five-man commission. The members of the rating commission, which our clerks have drawn their names from, will take their place in the Commission's ranks after the vote is completed. Vecdi Gündüz, cırlareli? Here. Selina Doğan, İstanbul? Here. Zeynep Altuk, Izmir? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. The Charter Commission has been appointed. Congressmans, I'm going to start voting now in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? The voting process is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Vecdi Gündoğdu, Kırklareli MP; Selina Doğan, İstanbul MP; Zeynep Altuk, İzmir MP; Aycan İrmez, Şırnak MP; Mehmet Erdoğan, Muğla MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's 4th election for President of the Grand National Assembly (4.) 547 members participated in the round vote, the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Vecdi Gündü Selina Doğan Zeynep Altukok Antalya MP Deniz Baykal :182 Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz :258 [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, Sivas MP Mr. Ismet Yilmaz was elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 258 votes, with the highest votes in the 4th vote. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Congratulations to themselves, and I wish you all the best. Mr. President would like to say thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-07-01sit01spe0003par0129	Mr. President, members of parliament, I thank you separately for the duty, responsibility and honor that you have placed on my shoulders by electing president of this great House. Being a simple member of such a coven is essentially the greatest honor of all. My mission to the State Department of Defense to this point is now legally terminated. I want my fellow congressmen to know that during my time as Speaker of Parliament, I would like to present to you that I will try to serve the Supreme Assembly with complete neutrality within the framework of the Constitution, Civil Code and the laws of the law. Thank you for your support and your warning. At the beginning of my speech, I remember all the presidents and deputies who served in this office, especially the first President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Commander-in-Chief of our Liberation War, the founder of our republic, the first President of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. (AK PARTY) I wish the new age of living well. This Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, which rules the Instruction War, appoints its commander-in-chief, and establishes the state and republic, where the national will seems to be the most concrete. Our beloved nation sees this Assembly as the solution to problems. This increases both the power of the Assembly and its responsibility. This is the heart of democracy. As the legislature works well, as the public finds a solution to the problems of the people, the prospects for the future will increase. It is our duty to keep the House's reputation at its highest, and we can do so by doing what is expected of us. We have a lot of work to do, we're running out of time, we're running out of hours of sand, which tells us that we need to evaluate every moment of the House, not waste a minute of it. Our coven is the address of every problem in our nation. In this period, we can show our nation that there is a place for discussion and talk in order to present better solutions to parliament. That's what we need from our people. Our nation expects a new constitution from the 25th-century Turkish Grand National Assembly. The economic and democratic level that our country has reached today makes a new constitution mandatory. At the point of the necessity of the new constitution, there is a fundamentally broad consensus in society. We need to make a new constitution together, considering the essential elements of democratic constitutions such as rule of law, human rights, separation of powers, pluralism. In a well-functioning democratic system, the Constitution is expected to provide the basis for solving social, political, economic and legal problems. It's easier to solve problems once this floor is secured. The new constitution is our joint responsibility. A constitution can be adopted by all communities to the extent possible by the participation of this process. In this process, considering the basic values of the society we live in along with universal values will prolong the life of the new constitution. I'd like to point out that at this time, we need more than ever the cooperation between government-powered organs. And the greatest responsibility for the implementation of this cooperation is our Parliament again. The separation of forces is not in any way a fight against powers, but the separation of forces is the use of certain state powers and duties in the President's coordination, and it is limited to a civilized work department and cooperation. It is also the duty of this Assembly to observe a political order in which individuals can live together in peace with their values by maintaining social diversity. In democratic societies, it's necessary to live together without accepting the other as it is. In this sense, it is our duty to view different world views and ways of life as wealth. Such understanding is also the necessity of pluralistic democracy. Pluralism is possible when everyone participates in social and political life with their own identity. As heirs of a civilization that has exhibited the best examples of peaceful life throughout history, what we need to look at our cultural values once again. With a Turkey who embraces universal values such as justice, equality, freedom, and human rights, and can bring their differences together in peace and strengthen their democratic regime, we can look to the future with hope. As I end my words, I once again thank myself for the faith shown to me, wish that the new era of legislation be good for our country and our nation, and salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2015-07-01sit01spe0004par0142	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal, and I'm having it read. At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday (July 2nd), 1/7/2015, it was agreed that the General Assembly should not meet on Thursday (July 2nd 2015) should be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 7th 2015) to discuss issues that will be on our agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
